Document of
The World Bank
FIOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7619-ZIM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AN4D REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 8, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnaltce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              -      Zimbabwe Dollar (Z$)
US$1.00                           Z$ 1.91
Z$100                            US$0.53 (as of March 31, 1989)
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Meter (m)                -      39.27 inches (in)
or 3.28 Feet.
1 Square Meter (m2)        =      10.76 Square Feet (Sq.Ft).
1 Kilometer (km)           -      0.61 Mile (mi).
1 Square Kilometer (km2)  -       0.386 Square Mile (Sq.mi).
1 Hectare (ha)             a      2.47 Acres (ac)
or 10,000 Square Meters.
I Imperial gallon (Ig)            1.2 US gallons = 4.55 liters.
1 Liter (1)                       1.037 Quarts Liquid
or 0.26 US gallon (gal).
1 Cubic Meter (m3)                220 Ig - 264.2 US gallons.
1 Liter per capita         =      0.2642 US gallon per capita
per day (lcd)                     per day.
I Million imperial                4 4,546 m3lday.
gallons per day (Igd)
1 Cubic Liter (cu.l)              1,000 Liters.
1 Kilovolt (Rv)                   1,000 Volts.
1 Megavolt Ampere (MVA)           1,000 Kilovolt Ampetes.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYTS
CABS      =    Central African Building Society
CDC            Commonwealth Development Corporation
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FPP       =    Financial Performance Plan
GDLF      =    General Development Loan Fund
GOZ       =    Government of Zimbabwe
Rf        -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LGA            Local Government Areas
MFEPD          Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development
MLGRUD         Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development
p.a.           per annum
MPCNH          Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
NEF       =    National Housing Fund
ODA       =    Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PCMU      -    Program Coordination and Monitoring Unit
PSIP           Public Sector Investment Program
SIDA      =    Swedish International Development Agency
UDCORP    =    Urban Development Corporation
UK        =    United Kingdom
USAID     =    United States Agency for International Development
UTU       =    Urban Transport Unit
FISCAL YEAR (PY)
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................                i - iii
I.    NATIONAL CONTEXT OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT         .      .           1
A. Macro-Economic Background to Urban Development ...         1
B. Urban Development and the Supply of
Infrastructure .................................        3
C. Management of the Budget and Local Authority
Financial Performance ..........................        6
D. Regional Distribution of Urban Development
ond Employment .................................        8
E. Government Policy in the Urban Sector ............         9
F. Donors' Role in the Urban Sector ..................       10
II.    THE PROJECT ............................................       12
A. Objectives .......................................        12
B. Project Scope ...............                             12
C.  Detailed Project Description .14
D. Project Costs .22
E. Project Financing .25
F. Environmental Impact .28
G. Impact on Women .29
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION          ..30
A. Institutional Arrangements .30
B. Procurement .36
C. Disbursements .38
D.  Accounts, Audits and Reporting Requirements              39
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS    ..40
A. Local Authority Finance .40
B. Project Impact on Local Authorities and Cost
Recovery .45
C. Building Society Operations .47
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Zimbabwe in September/October 1988. Mission members included
Messrs. J. Racki (Mission Chief), P. Ofosu-Amaah (LEGAF), C. Banes,
G-J. de Kruijff, K. Robson, M. Whitbread, and K. Clare (Consultants).
Ms. Brigida Arrieza-de-Figueroa provided secretarial support with
assistance from Mrs. Lucie Iacono in the preparation of the report.
This docunment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
V.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT                . . .                51
A.  General Approach              ........ .                     51
B.  Housing and Related Infrastructure         .      .         51
C.  Investments in Primary Urban Infrastructure ......          52
D.  Infrastructure Maintenance Support         .      .         52
E.  Assessment of Technical Assistance and Training..            52
F.  Poverty Impact and Affordability of Housing ......          52
G. Assessment of Project Risks             .        .           54
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................            55
ANNEXES
1.  Criteria to be Met By Additional Local Authorities
to Participate in the Project.
2.  Towns Eligible for the Program.
3.  Projection of Housing Demand and Supply in Zimbabwe by Town.
4.  Technical Assessment of Requirements for Primary Infrastructure
in Selected Towns.
5.  Development Plans and Financial Status of Harare City Council.
6.  Development Plans and Financial Status of Gweru City Council.
7.  Development Plans and Financial Status of Bindura Town Board.
8.  List of Vehicles and Equipment to be Financed under the
Urban Services Maintenance Component.
9.  Housing Revolving Funds to be Operated by Local Councils.
10.  Format for Building Society Monitoring of Progress
in Processing Mortgages.
11.  Requirements for Preparation of Financial Performance Plans.
12.  Draft Final Financial Performance Plan for Bindura Town.
13.  Draft Final Firancial Performance Plan for Gweru City Council.
14.  Schedule for Preparation of Financial Performance Plans.
15.  Studies on Municipal Finance to be Undertaken Under the Project.
16.  Detailed Project Cost Table (+ Costs by Agency & Source of Funds).
17.  General Appraisal Procedures for Approval of
Primary Infrastructure Projects under the PSIP.
18.  General Criteria for Selection and Appraisal of Primary
Infrastructure Projects.
19.  Format for Additional Data to be Used in Evaluating
PSIP Housing Project Proposals.
20.  Chart 25.1 - Organizational Structure of Harare City Council.
Chart 25.2 - Organizational Structure of Bindura Town Board.
Chart 25.3 - Organizational Structure of MLGRUD.
Chart 25.4 - Organizational Structure of MPCNH.
21.  Format for Monitoring Housing Development Progress.
22.  Charges for Utility Services in Urban Councils.
23.  Annual Recurrent Budget Surplus/Deficit in 21 Selected Councils.
24.  Means of Recovering Investment Costs Represented by Various
Proj.r Components.
25.  Data and Assumption Underlying Calculation of ERR
for Housing Program.
26.  Project Related Documents in Project Implementation File.
MAP  IBRD 1*o. 21400R



- i -
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Zimbabwe
Beneficiariest         Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban
Development (MLGRUD);
Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
(MPCNH);
Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority (ZESA);
all the local authorities eligible for General
Development Loan Funds (GDLF) and which meet agreed
criteria;
Central African Building Society (CABS);
Beverly Building Society; and
Founders Building Society.
Amount:                 US$80 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Payable in 20 years, including five years of grace
with variable interest rate.
On-Lending Terms:      Local Authorities: prevailing rates of the GDLF and
the National Housing Fund (NHF), currently
9.75Z p.a. payable in 25 years, including a three-
year grace period; ZESA: prevailing long-term rates
to parastatals, currently 9.752 p.a. payable in
20 years including a five-year grace period; the
building societies (CABS, Beverly, and Founders):
prevailing commercial lending terms including
interest at the prime rate plus a percentage to
cover the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives
and Benefits:           The main objectives of the project are to: (i)
provide support to urban areas to st:pply the
additional services required to cope with rapid
population growth; (ii) strengthen the appraisal
capacity of central and local government to
determine the most rational and cost effective
alternative investments in urban areas; (iii) ensure
the continued financial self-sufficiency of the
local authorities; (iv) improve maintenance to
protect the capital assets of the local authorities;
(v) strengthen the human resource capacity of the
local authorities; (vi) maximize the role of private
sector investors in urban housing,; and (vii) assist
with development of regional program focussed on the
smaller towns and rural growth centers.



- ii -
Benefits expected from the project include the
provision of infrastructure to support urban growth
and industrial expansion anticipated in the cities;
provision of housing at affordable standards to the
low and moderate income segments of the population;
increased efficiency of Governmental admiaistration
and more economic utilization of Government
resources in capital development; and replacement of
Governmental resources with private capital to
finance housing development.
Project Description:   The project is structured as a sector loan under
which the Government will undertake to appraise
individual projects in urban areas based on criteria
acceptable to both the Government and the Bank. The
project will: (i) support the provision of primary
urban infrastructure, including water supply,
sewerage, roads and drainage, under the next 5-year
capital development prc3ram, as well as provide for
replenishment and replacement of maintenance-related
vehicles and equipment; (ii) support the provision
of urban housing for about 500,000 people under the
next 5-year capital development program; (iii)
introduce a regional development svrategy, on a
pilot basis, based on support for the preparation of
a Harare Combination Development Plain, a Corridor
Town Development Plan for the Secondary Towns along
the railway between Bulawayo and Mutare, and
District Development Investment Plans for selected
growth areas in Mashonaland East and Manicaland; and
(iv) strengthen the institutional capacity of
Central Government to appraise proposed projects,
and local authorities to perform their planning,
budgeting, financial management, project preparation
and implementation, and urban services maintenance
functions.
Risks:                  rhe principal risks include: possible inability of
Government and the local authorities to meet the
requirements of the Financial Performance Plans
(FPP); and limitations on the capacity of the
building societies to generate tufficient funds.
The risks are mitigated by: Government's commitment
to maintaining the financial independence and
strengthening the operational capacity of the local
authorities; and its interest in shifting housing
finance to the private sector.



- iii-
Sunmary of Project Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total
------ US  million -
A.  Housing Infrastructure                      58.6      20.7       79.3
B.  Housing Finance                            242.0       6.3      248.3
C.  Community Facilities                        15.1       0.0       15.1
D.  Electricity Facilities                      14.3       6.1       20.4
E.  P"rimary Infrastructure                     49.5      21.4       70.9
F.  Urban Services and Maintenance              17.0      25.5       42.5
G.  Regional Development Program                 4.4       6.2       10.6
B.  Institutional Development                    0.3       8.8        9.1
Ease Costs                                 401.2     95.0       496.2
Physical Contingencies                    15.9      8.2        24.1
Price Contingencies                       47.8     11.9        59.7
Total Project Cost 1/                      464.9    115.1       580.0
1/  Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$33.1 million.
Financial Plan:
IBRD                                         -0-      80.0        80.0
KfW                                          -0-      21.C        21.0
SIDA                                         -0-       3.0         3.0
Building Societies                          242.0     -0-        242.0
Government                                  222.9     11.1       234.0
Total                                       464.9    115.1       580.0
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million):
Bank Fiscal Year               1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
Annual                       0.8   5.6   12.8  15.2  13.6  16.0  16.0
Cumulative                   0.8   6.4   19.2  34.4  48.0  64.0  80.0
Economic Rate of Return: 202
Map: IBRD No. 21400R



ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. NATIONAL CONTEXT OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT
A. Macro-Economic Background to Urban Development
1.01     Zimbabwe's overall economic performance has been reasonable since
independence, especially by African standards. Growth of GDP has averaged
about 3-6Z p.a. (with significant annual fluctuations influenced by
agricultural performance), external debt has been effectively managed and
monetary instability has been avoided.  However, both the Government of
Zimbabwe (GOZ) &nd the private sector now have serious concerns over the
weakness of future growth prospects and the:e are fears that the economy
will not be able to provide adequate incomes, employment, and basic
services to a population growing at ovtr 32 p.a.  These concerns are well-
founded. Analysis indicates that sustainable growth will require a major
r4se in the investment rate, especially in the productive sectors, in order
to support a process of gradual restructuring in manufacturing and
diversification in agriculture. A combination of significant macroeconomic
adjustments and structural reforms w'll be necessary to encourage a rise in
the investment rate, assure a sustainable external payments position and
provide a supportive climate for the private sector.
1.02     Macroeconomic restructuring and growth are relevant to the design
of urban policy in three key areas: in the economy's medium and long-term
requirements for urban infrastructure; in the relationship to budgetary
management; and in the adaptation of local authorities to required shifts
in the pattern of growth to meet the country's employment problem.
1.03     First, Zimbabwe is under-urbanized relative to its structure of
production (unlike Zambia, for instance). The level of urbanization is
estimated at 272, about average for Africa, yet manufacturing already
accounts for a quarter of total production, more than that of any other
Sub-Saharan country, barring South Africa. The sector is reasonably
efficient and its relative share is expected to continue to grow within an
effective growth strategy. Past under-urbanization is a consequence of the
racially based location and labor policies of pre-independence governments
and the 1980s have already witnessed an acceleration of urbanization. This
has so far not led to severe strains on urban infrastructure for either the
productive sector or households, largely because there has been little or
no expansion in industrial capacity since independence; the combination of
densification within established households and government-sponsored urban
settlement schemes was able to deal with the bulk of new migrants. The
situation is likely to be quite different over the next decade, however,
especially if the Government is successful in implementing a growth-
oriented adjustment program. A substantial expansion of basic urban
infrastructure will be necessary to support urban-based economic
development and accommodate urban population growth.



1.04     Second, the structural reforms will have an important bearing on
the futare availability of financial resources for urban infrastructure and
housing. The critical macroeconomic adjustment required is a reduction in
the public sector deficit, that has been running at around 9 - 1O of GDP.
Closely related to such adjustment is a reorientation of the financial
system toward the channeling of private savings into private investment.
Zimbabwe has a highly developed financial system, particularly with respect
to the non-monetary sector, which has been very effective both in capturing
private savings and in providing banking services to business. However,
the dominant flow of funds within the financial system has been from
private deposits to the purchase of government bonds. This has allowed
Government to finance the deficit in a non-inflationary manner (in the
short run), but has led to a severe diversion of resources away from
productive inv4.stment. Since the core of the deficit problem lies in the
level of current spending (includ'ng subsidies to parastatals) this low
level of private investment has not been offset by higher public
investment. Effective adjustment, dependent on improved financial
management, will require two changes: first, a reduction in the amount of
financing undertaken through the budget, which will have to be largely
effected through reduced current spending; and second, the encouragement of
the financial system to develop its capabilities for investment finance,
both for established businesses and households and for new smaller-scale
economic activities and households. There is a particular opportunity for
the development of a capability in the building societies for low-cost
housing finance. The achievement of these reforms in public and private
finance and improvements in macroeconomic performance will also depend to a
significant extent on the ability of local governments to maintain a sound
financial position, since any deterioration in the financial strength of
local authorities will lead to greater demands on the Central Government
budget (and/or a reduction of service levels).
1.05     Third, while growth of the formal sector, especially
manufacturing, will be necessary for overall economic development and
macroeconomic balance, it will only make a limited contribution to
Zimbabwe's employment problem: indicative projections suggest that of the
order of 75Z of the expansion of the labor force will be absorbed outside
formal employment in the next decade. A major portion of this component of
the labor force will need to find work in the peri-urban parts if the large
towns and in smaller growth centers. This pressure of job seekers will
require measures to develop the informal sector and the provision of an
urban environment and policies that are supportive. Urban policy can
facilitate this development in three ways: through encouraging rapid growth
in low-cost housing investment that depends on small contractors (direct
and indirect employment effects based on simpl.e techniques could be
substantial); through improving the basic infrastructure in poorly serviced
settlements with good growth potential; and through providing the policy
and institutienal framework conducive to the growth of small informal
businesses, in both the productive and service sectors.



- 3 -
B. Urban Development and the Supply of Infrastructure
Sectoral Distribution of Economic Activity
1.06     Between the two main productive sectors of agriculture and
industry, agriculture (including forestry), the main economic activity of
rural areas, produced only about 142 of the 1988 GDP. This compares with
industry which contributed Z$ 1.5 billion or over 362 out of the total Z$
4.1 billior. GDP produced in that year, of which nearly Z$ :.0 billion or
252 of total GDP was contributed by urban-based manufactu-ing. The service
sector comprised the rest, of which most was also urban-based. The
industrial sector, while stagnant during the 1983-88 period, is projected,
as noted above, as a major source of growth in the economy under any
restructuring program. Consequently, with most manufacturing located in
the cities, the qualit,, reliability, and efficiency of urban
infrastructure services will play an important role in supporting a
national development strategy focussed on the productive sectors.
Demographic Trends
1.07     While the population of Zimbabwe, estimated at 8.7 million, is
growing at the relatively rapid rate of 3.2Z p.a., urban population is
increasing much faster at an annual rate of about 62 (and perhaps even
higher). About 2.3 million people currently live in towns of 15,000 people
or more. Large numbers of people are moving from the rural areas, where
densities in the communal lands, combined with attempts to increase
agricultural productivity, and high and underemployment propel this shift.1
Consequently, over half a million people are being added to the urban
population each year (see Table I.1). This trend has been strongly in
evidence since independence and is expected to continue at similar or
higher rates over the next decade. By the year 2000, Zimbabwe will
therefore have undergone a demographic transformation whereby the cities
which had accommodated 172 of the population at independence, will be
grappl'ng with the provision of services and infrastructure for about 50Z
of the country's population. The development of an urban infrastructure
investment strategy that balances the pressures of future demand with
available resources for urban services, and still maintains a capacity to
deliver, operate, and finance such services, has emerged as an important
element of Government policy.
1/ The Zimbabwe Urban Sector Review (ZIM-4171, 1985) estimated that even
with a relatively successful resettlement program and good performance in
overall agricultural output, given the high rate of population growth, a
rate of increase of the urban population of about 102 p.a. was required
for any improvements in rural incomes to occur.



-4-
Table 1.1 - Recent and Proiected Urban Population of Zimbabwe
1969 1/     1982 1/      1989 2/     1994 21        2000
Harare                 364,390     656,011      973,444   1,290,444   1,831,140
Bulawayo               236,320     413,814      614,052      814,016   1,155,089
Gweru                   46,170      78,918      117,105      155,240     220,286
Mutare                  41,970      69,621      103,309      136,952     194,335
Kwekwe                  31,390      47,607       70,643       93,648     132,887
Kadoma                  24,980      44,613       66,200       87,759     124,530
Hwange                  20,190      39,202       58,171       77,115     109,A26
Chitungwiza             14,970     172,556      256,053      339,436     481,660
Chiinoyi                13,360      24,322       36,091       47,844      67,891
Masvingo                11,380      30,642       45,469       60,276      85,532
Marondera               10,940      20,263       30,068       39,860      56,561
Chegutu                  8,630      19,621       29,115       38,597      54,769
Redcliff                 8,580      22,015       32,668       43,306      61,451
Shurugwi                 8,S30      13,351       19,811       26,263      37,267
Kariba                   3,940      12,387       18,381       24,367      34,577
Victoria Falls           3,450       8,114       12.040       15,961      22,549
Total Municipalities  849,050   1,673,057   2,482,620   3,291,084   4,670,060
Other Urban Areas3l    93,750      268,553      398,501      528,273     749,620
Total Urban            942,800   1,941,610   2,881,121   3,819,357   5,419,680
1/ official census data.
2/ Projected on the basis of 1982 census data and assumed
5.8S p.a. growth rate. The actual growth rate for the
1969-1982 period was 5.41 p.a.
31 UTrban areas are communities with 2,500 population or more.
Note: Of the 21 towns included in the project, 16 are municipalities,
as listed above, and the remaining five, having a different status,
are included in other urban areas. The latter five with their 1982
population are as follows: Zvishavane 26,758; Bindura 18,243; Rusape
8,216; Gwanda 4,874: and Nyanga 2,973.
Source: Official Census for 1969 and 1982 and Bank mission estimates.
Distribution of Towns
1.08     The distribution of cities and towns around the country was
profoundly influenced by the Zimbabwe National Railway; nearly all
commercial and ina&istrial centers were established along the rail lines.
Fortunately, the railway network is extensive, and has resulted in a
widespread distribution of service, marketing, processing, and
manufacturing towns. This represents a valuable asset as these towns,
relatively equitably located in relation to the prime agricultural and more
densely populated rural hinterlands, have experienced a proportionate share
of the population growth in recent years, and have continued to fulfill
important economic roles in the development of their regions. The network



of towns is generally well placed to serve the Communal Areas, althouglk
linkages from the Communal Lands to the towns require improvements; and in
some instances where these distances are too great, and where rural
economic activities have accelerated, new growth centers have emerged (e.g.
Mrewa, GokwO).
1.09     Another important advantage to the distribution of urban areas in
Zimbabwe has been the disaggregated demand pressures for such urban
services as water supply and sewerage treatment. A larger number of
smaller centers has allowed for local, less bulky investments in primary
infrastructure in urban areas, as well as more equitable distribution of
resources regionally. In addition, this has resulted in a more effective
spreading of responsibilities for generating local revenues to pay for
these infrastructure costs. Successful Government policy requires that the
secondary towns retain their vigorous economic role, and depends on their
maintaining a capacity to provide infrastructure services competitive with
the large cities, and on their ability to sustain their financial
independence in the process.
Demand for Housing-Related Infrastructure
1.10     The housing market in Zimbabwe prior to independence could be
characterized as comprising two essentially separate delivery systems. One
was private sector based and served middle and upper income households.
The other was a public sector telivery program designed for low-Income
households that was implemented by local authorities and financed by them
with borrowings from Central Government. Following independence,
requirements for low-income housing, still fully dependent on public sector
napital development funds, accelerated sharply, at the same time that
Government turned its attention to the long neglected development needs of
the Communal Areas.
1.11     Almost all new urban population growth comprises low and moderate
income households; that is households dependent on Government financed
housing development. It is estimated that to keep pace with infrastructure
requirements for housing in the urban areas, an average of approximately
15,000 - 30,000 new res-dential sites would have to be serviced annually
over the next decade, and this would have to be doubled to eliminate the
existing backlog. It is unlikely that this level of supply can be
achieved, particularly given the high degree of dependence of the housing
infrastructure program on public sector resources. A strategy is therefore
required that efficiently balances housing-related tertiary infrastructure
investments with city-wide primary infrastructure needs while concurrently
ensuring adequate capacity in the systerm to meet the demands of the other
sectors, particularly those of industry. A key consideration will be the
potential role of the private sector as an alternative source of long-term
financing for residential infrastructure.
Current Status and Future Requirements of Urban Infrastructure
1.12     The success of the urban local authority system in Zimbabwe is
most evident in the effective capacity demonstrated by the cities and towns
in supplying, operating, and maintaining infrastructure services over the
years. The absorption of the large shifts in population to the urban



-6-
areas, and the steady performance of the industrial sector, which has been
able to rely on dependable and efficient urban services, is attributable to
the independence and self-sufficiency of the town councils. As a result,
over 902 of the urbans population enjoy satisfactory access to water supply,
sanitation, road networks and public transportation facilities, drainage,
and solid waste management. The other users of the facilities, including
in particular, the industrial sector, have been able to operate and plan
for growth on the ready availability of additional infrastructure capacity
when required.
1.13     In part, the performance of the local authorities can be traced to
a resource-rich period for the urban sector, prior to independence, when
public investments favored the cities at the expense of the Communal Areas.
As a result, substantial depth in bulk infrastructure capacity and in
standards and levels of supply were established. With the post-
independence period of emphasis on redressing imbalances in the rural
areas, investment in real terms in urban infrastructure has been curtailed.
The pattern of this investment has also been modified, with a greater share
of resources being spent on capital works rather than maintenance-related
plant and equipment in order to cope with the inflow of new urban migrants.
The depth of the existing system and the thoughtful allocation of the
limited finances for new infrastructure has enabled the system to sustain a
reliable delivery of urban services, but this is increasingly facing
capacity stress. Estimates of need resulting from accumulated deferments
and the rapid growth of the cities indicate that ideally about Z$ 0.5
billion would be needed over the next five years. well in excess of
affordable levels of investment.
1.14     The successful performance of urban government in Zimbabwe in
supplying infrastructure is therefore at a crossroads. It is estimated
that, despite strong Government commitment to maintaining suitable levels
of investment in the urban areas, cnly about 25-302 of the required
resources will be available from the public sector. At risk are (i) an
erosion of the depth in infrastructure capacity such that intractable
service deficiencies emerge. Of particular concern would be the inability
to adequately respond to any structural adjustment initiatives requiring
industrial capacity expansion that depends, in turn, on infrastructure
services; (i.i) depletion of maintenance capabilities resulting in
irremediable deterioration of major capital assets in the urban areas;2
and (iii) the rapid growth in the urban population outstripping the supply
of infrastructure and the creation of informal, squatter settlements which
has, to date, been avoided.
C. Management of the Budget and Local Authority Financial Performance
Background to Local Authority Responsibilities
1.15     The Local Government system in the urban areas is a de facto
unitary system with only one authority responsible for the affairs of each
2/ While deterioration of the assets themselves has not occurred on any
significant scale in most of the urban areas, the maintenance vehicles and
equipment are seriously depleted and their replacement is urgently
required to avoid rapid deterioration of existing infrastructure.



-7-.
area. The primary concern of the urban councils is the provision of water
supplies, sewerage systems, roads and transport-related infrastructure
services, trunk road access (non-gazetted), housing-related infrastructure
and low-cost housing, street lighting, as vell as health, educational, and
welfare services. Central Government, through the Ministries of Local
Government, Rural and Urban Development (MLGRUD) and Public Construction
and National Housing (MPCNH), monitors the performance of the Councils and
assists them with capital development funds, but on a loan basis only.
Each authority is autonomous in directing its own affairs, and virtually
all current expenditures are the responsibility of the local authorities,
which they finance out of local revenues generated from utility and service
tariffs, fees, and property taxes in the form of rates. The only
subsidized transfers comprise small grants from the line ministries for
health and education purposes, largely to offset the relatively recent
devolution of tertiary health and primary education facilities and
operations to the local authorities.
Local Authority Recurrent Expenditure Performance
1.16     The financial independence of the local authorities, whether taken
alone or when compared with the public sector in general (particularly the
parastatals), stands out as a singularly valuable asset in overall
Government budgetary operations.  Local authority current expenditures
comprise a substantial proportion of total public sector current
expenditures, equivalent to about 112. Moreover, despite the tremendous
population growth pressures on the local authorities, the rate of increase
of their debt has been a little over half that of Central Government;
whereas gross public sector debt rose over 3302 between 1980 and 1987,
local authority debt increased by a little less than 2002 for the same
period. Even more significantly, whereas the Central Government deficit
increased from a little more than Z$ 0.3 billion in 1980 to over Z$ 1.0
billion in 1987, (a 300Z increase), the local authorities, when reviewed
collectively, have continued to generate a surplus. This is attributable
to relatively solid financial management discipline, and to their capacity
and willingness to raise and collect local revenues to match their
expenditures. Given their relatively large share of total public sector
current expenditures, the financial health of the urban councils is of
particular interest to Government. Any erosion of this performance towards
deficit financing would introduce subsidies into the urban sector at a time
when the Government's effort to reduce the public sector deficit is a
priority policy objective.
1.17     It is this prospect which is of concern to Government, as the
sound overall financial condition of the urban areas masks the uneven
situation that exists between individual authorities. Here, trends in
local authority performance with current expenditure control are at issue.
Increases in expenditure in several instances appear to have followed a
somewhat similar growth pattern to those in Central Government, which grew
from a little over Z$ 1.0 billion in 1980 to over Z$ 3.5 billion in 1987, a
nearly fourfold increase. When Central Government subsidies to parastatals
are included, this increases by a further 152, and it is the concern for
managing public expenditure transfers that is of particular interest when
examining trends in local authority finances. While not yet critical, the
signs of financial deterioration occurring in some of the councils indicate



- a - 8
that steps to define a recovery strategy, improve financial management,
introduce effective financial performance planning that includes investment
and revenue programming and monitoring procedures, and undertake some
remedial accounting measures, be treated as a priority of urban policy.
Capital Development Investments by Local Authorities
1.18     Local authorities depend primarily on resource transfers from
Central Government for their capital development investment programs.
Virtually all such transfers are in the form of loans, and the local
authorities depend on their own revenue generating sources to service these
debts. The towns also draw on reserves for investment purposes, and the
councils with city status (Harare, Bulawayo, Gweru, and Mutare) can issue
bonds, subject to MLGRUD and Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and
Development (MFEPD) approval. Local authority capital expenditures have
increased at a slower average rate than inflation between 1980 and 1988,
though quite significant real incres-es took place in the early post-
independence years.  The competitio.. Pr Government capital development
funds and the consequent rcduction of investment in real terms in urban
infrastructure during recent years presents one of the most urgent areas
for new urban policy initiatives, and it is in this area where significant
additional investment from the private sector is in prospect. A strategy
to gradually replace long term Government financing of residential
infrastructure and housing construction with private sector funds is under
development. If this can occur on a sufficiently large scale, then the
housing program can be expanded, while at the same time allowing resources
to be reallocated to primary infrastructure such that real growth in
investment can take place in both urban infrastructure and housirg.
D. Regional Distribution of Urban Development and Employment
1.19     As a result of the population pressures on the Communal Lands,
Zimbabwe towns will continue to grow at a rapid rate, creating heavy
demands for employment. Therefore, Central Government and the local
authorities face a pressing problem of designing policies and implementing
programs to encourage development of commerce and industry in those towns.
It is probable however, that such programs will not keep pace with
migration to the urban areas, and that the high growth of the labor force
in the cities is likely to cause both rising unemployment and continued low
incomes for many, resulting in affordability problems relative to the cost
of supplying urban infrastructure services. The tendency of this shift in
population to focus on the primary cities places a significant burden on
them; the proportionately higher number of low income households there
exacerbates problems of affordability of services. Also, the
disproportionately higher population growth rate in the large cities
frequently results in bulky primary infrastructure investment requirements
that involve substantially higher unit costs. Moreover, this uneven spread
of urban migration with its attendant investment demands for the main
centers can result in the neglect of the secondary towns and smaller
regional centers. Such neglect could seriously erode the developmental
benefits gererated by the existing network of widely distributed towns with
their strong economic linkages to their rural hinterlands, and fail to
exploit the potential for similar economic relationships that could be
fostered in the Communal Areas.



- 9 -
1.20     Special attention should therefore be given to introducing
development strategies and investment plans for both the secondary town
network and the high potential districts with their small but rapidly
growing urban centers. In particular, the Gweru-Mutare railway corridor
(via Harare) represents a system of towns and related high-output mining or
agricultural regions that would benefit from a well articulated development
program. Similarly, a suitable system of district development planning and
investment programming should be undertaken for key districts with
demonstrated economic potential, focussed on their urban growth centers;
such an effort would initiate a process for supporting economic growth in
those rural areas where nearly 60Z of the national population live.
However, unemployment in the urban areas will continue to increase to high
levels even with a successful regional development strategy and a gradual
shift to a more evenly distributed pattern of urban greoth in which
employment opportunities are maximized. Therefore, tha development
strategies proposed for the towns and district centers will require
a major component aim4'd at the strengthening of the informal sector.
E. Government Policy in the Urban Sector
1.21     The First Five-Year National Development Plan (1986 to 1990)
arnticipates a significant shift in the distribution of population towards
the urban areas. on a scale described in para. 1.07. The magnitude of the
problem and its impact on urban investment requirements in essential
services, and on the urgency of maintaining infrastructure capacity to
support employment generation initiatives in the productive sectors, are
recognized in the Plan. Priority is also given, under the Plan to
stabilizing regional shifts in population in the secondary towns to ease
the concentration in demand for urban services in the primary cities, and
to strengthen the economic role of the small centers in regions of good
growth potential. Government has therefore introduced a number of policies
to address the constraints facing the urban sector, and to promote the role
played by urban areas in complementing economic growth support programs.
Key elements of Government's urban strategy include:
(a) Making the most efficient use of the scarce resources
available. This requires strengthening the capacities of the
line ministries with urban-related responsibilities, and the
local authorities, to effectively evaluate the technical,
financial and economic consequences of all proposed
investments. This would support: (i) improvements in the
efficient selection and scheduling of competing urban
irvestments, and in the identification of the most cost-
effective capital development proposals; (ii) maximizing the
use of existing system capacities, allowing for postponement
of bulkier investments by better balancing existing
facilities; (iii) planning of major capital works to avoid
lumpy funding demands; (iv) establishment of a suitable
balance in the allocation of capital development resources
between maintenance and expansion; and (v) greater
opportunities for the secondary towns and smaller centers to
compete for scarce capital development resources;



-10 -
(b) The involvement of private sector intermediation (the
building societies) in financing low income housing in order
to substantially expand the funds available for housing and
thus significantly increase low cost housing infrastructure
provision and house construction.   This participation of the
building societies would also initiate a process of
substituting Government-sourced transfers for capital
development financing with funds from the private sector;
(c) The maintenance of the financial independence and viability
of local authorities in order to assure the continuity of
these entities as the suppliers of urban services, and to
avoid any shift in dependence towards Central Government
current expenditure transfers to urban sector, as well as to
minimize the reliance on GOZ financing of capital works.
Government strategy is to introduce effective manpower
development programs in order to strengthen institutional
capacity in all facets of local authority operations, but
with particular emphasis on financial management. In
addition, GOZ is proposing the introduction of a new
management tool, the Financial Performance Plan (FPP), which
would: (i) enable continuous mon4toring of the financial
circumstances of each local authority; (ii) bring into
operation a means of future planning and programming; and
(iii) spell out both local and central government agreements
on actions to be taken and performance standards to be met in
order for the local authority to qualify for access to
investment loans;
(d) Promoting the secondary cities and towns, and the smaller
regional growth centers, in competition with the main
centers, primarily through the strengthened appraisal
procedures described in (a) above. It is expected that
support for preparing more complete feasibility studies for
proposed infrastructure and housing developments, as part of
the annual investment review cycle, will enable, submissions
by the smaller centers to more effectively compete for
consideration. In addition, Government is planning to
initiate regional development programs that more cle%rly
articulate investment strategies for the secondary centers
and focus on the employment generation opportunities offered
under these strategies.
F. Donors' Role in the Urban Sector
1.22     The donors involved in the urban sector in Zimbabwe have mainly
comprised the United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
the British Overseas Development Agency (ODA), the Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA), the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
and the Bank. USAID provided assistance in the development of a major
low-income housing program in a number of cities and towns in Zimbabwe.
The program, which started shortly after independence and is nearing
completion, included technical assistance and training in the housing
subsector. ODA has provided primarily technical assistance to MLGRUD to
undertake training of local authority staff in urban areas in Zimbabwe.



- 11 -
SIDA has also focussed on training-related technical assistance for local
authorities, provided through MLGRUD. While SIDA has focussed on the
district councils, the overlap with the smaller urban areas has been
considerable, particularly with the move by Government towards the
amalgamation of rural and district councils. In addition, SIDA has
provided substantial support in examining the requirements for effectuating
the amalgamation. CDC participated with the Bank in cofinancing the Bank-
assisted Urban Development Project (ZIM-2445), Urban I, under which the
private sector, through the building societies, was introduced to low-
income housing mortgage lending. CDC played a key role in facilitating
building society intermediation in public housing which has proven to be a
major opportunity for expansion of Government's low cost housing program.
1.23     The Bank's involvement in the sector began in 1980, leading to the
preparation of the Zimbabwe Urban Sector Report, which served as the basis
for Urban I. The primary objective of the First Urban Project, which is
based in four cities (Harare, Bulawayo, Mutare, and Masvingo), was the
initiation of a large scale housing program in %hich Government investments
in housing could be complemented with long term private sector financing in
order to significantly increase the supply of housing. The project was
designed to ensure affordability to low-income urban residents through the
provision of least-cost housing solutions, and replicability through
continued sound cost recovery procedures. The project, though not
explicitly designated as such, was intended to serve as a pilot operation
which, if successful, could be further expanded. Urban I also includes
technical assistance to support a local authority training program, as well
as providing off-site infrastructure and community facilities linked to the
requirements of the housing financed under the project.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.24     While Urban I is not yet complete, it is evident from reviews of
progress made to date that the project is being effectively implemented,
and has been instrumental in assisting Government in laying the foundation
for a housing program with a broader resource base. The housing and
infrastructure services have been built as designed, at cost, and in
advance of the original schedule, and fully satisfactory cost recovery
performance has been maintained. The proposed project therefore builds on
the success of the first, expanding the role of private sector financial
intermediation for housing from an essentially pilot operation, to a
national sector-wide program. In addition, the project would support
Government initiatives in: strengthening local authority institutional
capacity for operating and maintaining urban services; and assuring
continued local authority financial autonomy by providing financial
management training, improved project appraisal procedures, and new
mechanisms for linking local authority expenditures to financial
performance. The project also supports Government development policy
(reflected in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy) of reducing the need
for Central Government transfers, by maintaining the financial viability of
the local authorities in order to avoid the introduction of subsidies into
the urban sector, and ensuring a capacity to support 'urban growth and
industrial development through sector-wide investment in capital works and
maintenance-related requirements for primary infrastructure.



-12-
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.01     The principal objectives of the project are to:
(a) provide support to urban centers in supplying additional
urban services and housing that will be required as a result
of the projected doubling of the urban population over the
next 7 to 10 years;
(b) strengthen the capacity of central and local Government
institutions to determine the most cost-effective investments
in the urban sector and establish the most efficient
scheduling for these investments;
(c) ensure the continued financial self-sufficiency of the urban
local authorities, including the maintenance of appropriate
cost recovery and revenue generation capabilities;
(d) protect the capital assets of urban local authorities through
improved maintenance-related investments;
(e) strengthen the human resource capacity of local authorities
to enable them to efficiently deliver, operate and maintain
urban services on a sustained basis;
(f) maximize the role of non-Governmental, private sector,
investors in housing, particularly building societies, as a
means of relieving the financial burden on Government;
(g) assist with the design and implementation of regional
development programs focussed on the secondary cities, small
towns and rural centers as alternatives to the major cities,
emphasizing in particular the promotion of employment
creation irn the urban areas to absorb the growing labor
force.
B. Project Scope
Composition
2.02     The project comprises the following principal components:
(a) Primary Urban Infrastructure providing support for the next
five-year capital investment program for urban areas covering
primary infrastructure (including maintenance requirements).
Bank assistance would be in the form of a sub-sector loan to
the Government with funds onlent through the General
Development Loan Fund (GDLF) for specific subprojects;
(b) Housing and Related Serviced Residential Land providing
support for the next five-year capital investment plan for
urban areas covering housing and housing-related serviced
residential land. Bank assistance would be in the form of a



- 13 -
sub-sector loan to the Government for residential
infrastructure development, with funds onlent through the
National Housing Fund (NHF) for specific subprojects. House
construction costs and the purchase of the serviced plots
would be financed bv long-term mortgages to be provided by
the building societies directly to the individual
beneficiaries;
(c) Regional Development Program introducing a regional
development strategy under which two pilot programs would be
implemented. The first would provide technical assistance to
prepare a strategic investment framework for the development
of an urban services infrastructure in the secondary towns
along the Bulawayo/Harare/Mutare railway corridor, to be
financed under the sub-sector loans mentioned above.
Emphasis would be placed on generating employment
opportunities and promoting small-enterprise development.
The second would assist with promoting the growth of selected
small towns and rural centers in two provinces, Mashonaland
East and Manicaland. This would include technical assistance
to support, on a pilot basis, preparation of selected
district development investment plans in infrastructure and
services related to employment support measures as a means of
expanding and diversifying non-farm activities.
(d) Strengthening Institutional Capacity through a manpower
development program that would include technical assistance
and training to Central Government line ministries and local
authorities. The program would address investment
programming and project appraisal capacities, as well as
local authority financial management, and urban service
operation and maintenance requirements;
Selection of Proiect Towns
2.03     All towns with borrowing powers under the GDLF can participate in
the project, subject to their meeting certain eligibility criteria which
were agreed on during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations, and are
described in Annex 1. Currently, 50 local autherities (see Arnex 2 for a
list), of which 16 are urban councils and 34 are towns in rursl councils,
have access to GDLF loan funds. Any additional towns which may become
eligible for GDLF resources during project execution would be able to
participate under the project subject to satisfying the criteria in Annex
1. During appraisal the financial condition and investment needs of the
following 21 towns were determined to have satisfied the eligibility
criteria.
Urban Councils
City Councils: Harare, Bulawayo, Gweru, Mutare
Municipal Councils: Kadoma, Kwekwe, Chegutu, Hasvingo,
Chinoyi, Marondera, Redcl'ff
Town Councils: Shurugwi, Victoria Falls, Kariba, Hwange,
Chitungwiza



-.14-
Rural Councils
Town Boards: Bindura, Rusape, Zvishavane, Owanda, Nyanga
All towns eligible to participate under the project would be required to
prepare a FPP, which would be subject to approval by MLGRUD, and should be
satisfactory to the Bank (see paras. 2.25, 3.05, and 4.12).
2.04     The towns in the project represent a population (1982 census) of
about 1.96 million. Therefore, the project will directly affect the
delivery of infrastructure, housing and related services of towns
containing virtually all of the urban population in Zimbabwe. Annex 3
contains projections of population, households and housing demand for the
21 towns that were reviewed in detail during project preparation/appraisal.
C. Detailed Project Description
Sector Approach
2.05     The financing of the two major sub-components of the project,
primary urban infrastructure and urban houGing (including related community
facilities and electrical reticulation), which together comprise about 86Z
of total project base costs (excluding housing finance), has been
structured as two sub-sector loans under which the Government will appraise
and provide financing for individual projects proposed by local authorities
for investments in urban infrastructure and housing respectively. The sub-
sector loans would finance the foreign currency requirements of the public
sector investment program (PSIP) of GOZ. All capital development and
maintenance investments in primary and housing-related infrastructure in
the eligible towns would qualify under the sub-sector loans. Appraisal
procedures and criteria for evaluating proposed investments, and their
linkage to the PSIP, are described in paras. 3.04 to 3.07.
Primary Urban Infrastructure
2.06     Infrastructure Works.  During project preparation, a detailed
technical assessment and estimate of costs of infrastructure investment
needs was undertaken for each of the 21 local authorities, including
maintenance-related vehicle and equipment requirements for urban services,
based on existing and projected demand and on existing levels of provision
(summarized in Annex 4). The assessment was linked to the housing program
as well as to related demands for industrial, commercial, public
administration and community/health services resulting from urban growth.1
1/ Samples of these analyses are given in Annexes 5, 6, and 7. Similar
analyses for the remaining 18 local authorities are available as part of
the project implementation file, and are contained in a supplementary
document available to GOZ to assist with project execution.



- 15 -
2.07     The capital investment requirements represented by the needs
analysis, which were limited to well justified deficiencies only, comprised
a significantly greater share of the GOZ capital development program than
under past PSIP allocations. However, it was concluded during appraisal
that ceilings reflecting past expenditure levels could be adopted, while
still ensuring satisfactory standard of essential infrpitructure
provision, subject to the introduction of modifications in (i) resources
allocated for maintenance requirement; and (ii) past policies of allowing
allocations for urban services to erode in real terms. The level of
investment in capital development requirements for the first year of the
sector program consequently was set at Z$ 25.0 million, which was estimated
to be the average achieved annually over the preceding five years;
thereafter it would be maintained at that level in real terms for the
remainder of the sector loan period. Funding to be earmarked for
investment in maintenance-related vehicles, plant and equipment, would be
included as an additional amount to offset the emphasis that has been
placed in recent years on capital works and to redress the serious
deterioration in the maintenance capacities of local authorities. The
proposed level of investment was determined to be appropriate to address
critical backlog requirements for infrastructure development and
maintenance, as well as accommodate some expansion in demand, while taking
account of the public expenditure constraints anticipated by GOZ and the
Bank.
2.08     Water supply works (Z$ 68 million) will include bulk water
augmentation, treatment, pumping, storage, trunk mains and reticulation.
With regard to sewerage (Z$ 35 million), the improvements are trunk mains,
reticulation, pumping and treatment facilities. Road and drainage works
(ZS 23 million) will include all non-gazetted roads. The first two-yea;
program to be financed under the sector loan will be derived from the
schedule of inv;estments in infrastructure that was reviewed in detail
during appraisal and was determined to be technically feasible. The
selection from among the proposed investments will be determined during the
PSIP process according to resource and affordability criteria mentioned
above (para. 2.07). The services required to design the various primary
infrastructure facilities and to supervise their construction are included
under this component, whether performed by the local authority staff,
consultants or the Urban Development Corporation (UDCORP) engaged by these
authorities.
2.09     Urban Services and Infrastructure Maintenance.  This component
(Z$ 81 million) of the project, which comprises part of the primary
infrastructure sub-sector loan, provides for plant, equipment and vehicles
required by local authorities to maintain service levels and protect past
investments in infrastructure. Although emphasis is placed on the supply
of spare parts, substantial replacement and/or augmentation of plant,
vehicles and equipment is required, as determined during appraisal, because
of the now urgent need to protect capital assets where the potential for
rapid deterioration is posing a threat of premature loss of the assets.
Schedules of plant, vehicles and equipment requirements have been prepared
for each town taking account of the age and condition of existing assets,
and these are listed in Annex 8.



- 16-
Housing and Related Serviced Residential Land
2.10     Serviced Residential Land.  A detailed technical assessment of low
and moderate income housing needs in each of the towns included under the
project was undertaken during project preparation. The assessment was
based on the existing housing backlog as measured by updated waiting lists
maintained by the local authorities, and on estimates of growth in demand
(see Annex 3). During appraisal these were modified to reflect resources
available within the framework of projected public sector investment
constraints. The amount of investment consequently agreed on was linked to
recent patterns of public resource allocatians to housing. In the first
year of the project, an allocation of Z$ 45.0 million was agreed, which
matched the average annual budgetary commitment under the PSIP for housing
over the past five years. This level of investment would then be
maintained in real terms. It was also agreed that not less than 60' of
this annual allocation would be directed to the project, of which the
sector loan would finance the foreign currency requirements. The proposed
level of investment was estimated to be sufftcient to keep pace with growth
in demand. During project preparation a number of sites for housing were
identified in several of the towns participating under the project, and
layout design work was completed. During the FY89/90 PSIP and appraisal
process, GOZ would make a selection from among these alternative projects
in determining the composition of the investments in housing to be financed
in the first year of the subsector loan. Electricity reticulation
requirements to provide for residential connections, are included under the
project (Z$ 39 million).
2.11     The project will include the provision of serviced residential
plots for low, moderate and lower-middle income households in all the
eligible cities. In general, the urban councils have sufficient land for
expansion of housing; a few councils will have to expand their town areas
by acquiring adjacent farm land on the basis of the well-established
practice of negotiated purchase from willing sellers. The minimum size
plot is 300 m2, but Government is considering reducing this to 200m2. Each
plot will have full road access, a connection to a mid-block sewer, a water
connection and an optional electricity connection. Infrastructure
standards have been adopted to minimize costs and maximize efficiencies.
Based on current occupancy rates, it is estimated that the plots to be
provided will accommodate over 500,000 people including both occupants and
renters or lodgers. Servicing of land for local commercial and industrial
requirements and community facilities is also included; taken together,
these land uses represent about 202 of the gross area of each project site
while residential land will comprise about 502 of the gross area.
2.12     The community facilities to be provided (Z$ 29 million) comprise
primary schools, clinics, market areas and community centers. The level of
provision under the project, in terms of facilities-to-service population
ratios, will be in line with current standards actually implemented in the
cities. Only community facilities in new housing areas being developed
under the project would qualify for funding under the sector loan. The
community facilities proposed to be developed under the project, including
the standards and design of the facilities, for each such area would be
forwarded to the Bank for comments prior to commencement of the tendering
process for construction of any of the facilities in the area being
developed. This was confirmed during negotiations. The designs of



- 17-
facilities are based on revised minimum standards of construction as
implemented under the First Urban Development Project and will be reviewed
by the Bank prior to commencement of bidding procedures. The services
required to design the residential infrastructure and community facilities,
and supervise construction are included under this component of the
project, whether performed by the local authority staff, UDCORP. or
consultants engaged by the towns.
2.13     Housing Finance.  Under the project, the building societies will
provide the necessary finance for both plot purchase and dwelling unit
construction. As noted above, the building societies became involved in
the First Urban project by providing low-cost housing finance, and their
involvement will be greatly expanded in the proposed project.  Housing
finance will be provided by them for both the plot acquisition price and
house construction cost in the amount of Z$ 460 million. This is
sufficient to cover all of the mortgage requirements anticipated under the
project. The average loan is expected to be Z$ 10,000, including the
estimated purchase price of the plot(see para. 4.22). During negotiations,
agreement was reached that Government would ensure that the building
societies utilize lending criteria consistent with those agreed between the
Government and the Bank for allocations of mor'gage loans.  The building
societies would provide 1002 of the financing required for this component,
utilizing funds raised through their normal operatione (see paras. 4.30 to
4.35).
2.14     The introduction of the building societies into Government's low
cost housing program under Urban I has been a major factor in reducing the
financial burden on the public sector. In addition to the building
societies providing 100? of the capital required to finance house
construction costs under the project, a steady supply of serviced sites
will be assured by the proposed sector loan. This will facilitate a
restructuring of the financing of the low cost housing that will involve
the complete replacement of government funds by those of the private sector
for house construction costs (see paras. 4.23 to 4.25).   It will also
allow the partial replacement of Government funds by those of the building
societies for the construction costs of the serviced sites.  This would be
achieved by the establishment of revolving funds in each participating
local authority, built on the benefits of the differential between the
long-term financing provided by the NHF for servicing the plots and the
short-term return on this investment to the local authorities realized from
the sale of the plots. The revolving funds, if properly managed, could
become a steadily expanding source of funds for housing infrastructure
development, as an alternative to Central Government transfers.
2.15     The operation of a revolving fund (see Annex 9) in a local
authority will depend on five key elements: (i) the continued availability
to the local authority of long-term loans from NHF; (ii) a regular supply
of serviced sites, in order for funds to be recycled on a steady.
continuing basis; (iii) a short period of time (two to three years) between
the commencement of construction of infrastructure and the receipt of
payments for plots from the building society as it provides mortgages to
the household beneficiaries; (iv) the type of cost recovery mechanisms in
place which will affect the plot price (the amount of land servicing costs



- 18 -
recovered in the plot price); and (v) the establishment of the tightly
controlled rec-nling procedures necessary to a well managed revolving fund
in the local authority. Thus, while Government would be required, during
the first three years, to invest substantial funds, by the end of the third
year a major portion of the initial year's funding would be returned to the
revolving fund mnd would be available for reinvestment.
2.16     Thereafter, the demands on Central Government could be reduced
taking into account the following: (i) the difference between the cost of
servicing plots and the selling price of the plots (estimated at about 302
of the plot cost);2 (ii) an annual topping up of the revolving fund, based
on the rate of urban population growth pluis inflation; and (iii) local
authority amortization of the long-term NHF and GDLF loans. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that each local authority participating
in the project would be required to establish a revolving fund from the
proceeds of plot sales, in accordance with conditions and procedures
acceptable to MPCNH and the Bank.
2.17     During appraisal, the adequacy of funds available to the building
societies and hence the capacity of these societies to provide the
requisite mortgage financing under the proposed project were estimated to
be sufficient. However, during implementation the flow of such funds will
be monitored to determine whether any further measures are required to
facilitate either (i) the flow of additional funds to the societies (see
para. 4.34) or (ii) the flow of funds from them for housing loans under the
project. Monitoring will also be required to ensure that the funds
available for mortgage financing are well distributed among income groups
according to criteria agreed on during appraisal (see para. 3.10).
2.18     In order to ensure that the building societies can effectively
manage the significant increase in the number of mortgages to be originated
under the program, and to facilitate the expansion of their mobilization of
savings deposits, the project will provide financing to all three societies
for the foreign currency necessary to acquire addit.onal computing
equipment (estimated at Z$ 12.0 million). The on-lending terms and
conditions of these loans were agreed on during negotiations, and
Government would obtain assurances that the building societies commit a
minimum 252 of their total annual dollar volume of lending to the sector
program, for mortgages to low income households (that is families with
household incomes of Z$650 per month or less) according to the proportions
described in para. 3.10. In addition, Government would obtain satisfactory
assurances that the buiilding societies make suitable provisionF, under the
sector program, for the sepply of mortgage loans for the temaining 302 of
plot allocations, as ina.cated in para. 3.10, to moderate/louer-middle
income beneficiaries whose hout?hold incomes range between Z$650 and Z$1000
per month. The format for monitoring lending performance by the building
societies that was prepared and agreed on during appraisal, (see Annex 10)
was confirmed during negotiations. It was agreed during appraisal that, in
the event of excessive delays by the building societies, (12 months or more
2/ This does not represent a subsidy of the plot purchase price, but
comprises those elements of the plot which are recovered through pricing,
as opposed to other capital costs which are recovered through tariffs (see
pares. 4.22 and 4.23).



-19 _                               .     .
from time of submission of a fully complete mortgage applicatiosi to time of
approval and offer of a mortgage), alternative means for financing the
purchase of the plot and constructing the superstructure would be sought.
In order to ensure the competitiveness of the building societies in
mobilizing savings, it was agreed during appraisal, and confirmed during
negotiations, that an annual evaluation of their performance, in the
context of the project, would be undertaken by Government. This review
would be -haired by MPEPD, and its results and any actions proposed to be
taken, would be communicated to the Bank for comment.
Regional Development Program
2.19     The regional development program will operate at two levels.  One
will concentrate on the development role of the secondary towns along the
Bulawayo-Harare-Mutare Corridor, including the Greater Harare Metropolitan
Area. The other will focus on the development, on a pilot basis, of
relatively small growth centers in the context of the region within which
each center is situated. Particular attention will be paid to
strengthening the role played by the towns, cities and growth centers, in
supporting employment creation/income generation opportunities within their
own areas. The project will operate by making available to the local
authorities, through MLGRUD, qualified professional staff with appropriate
expertise and experience and by providing, on a pilot basis, for strategic
capital investments (such as infrastructure for small enterprise estates),
as they are identified in the small regional growth centers, to support
priority development programs.
2.20     Preparation of the Combination Development Plan and Investment
Strategy for the Greater Harare Metropolitan Area. For some time it has
been apparent that with the population growth pressures concentrated in
Harare and its resultant expansion towards Chitungwiza and several other
smaller local authorities, an integrated development strategy and
investment program is required for the Harare region. Terms of reference
have been prepared by MLGRUD and were agreed during appraisal. The project
would provide technical assistance to MLGRUD in the form of a consultant
team. The consultants would be fully integrated with the combination
development plan team which has already been established. An estimated 9
staff years of technical assistance (Z$ 1.7 million) is required. Included
in this program would be the development and implementation of information
management systems in Harare (Z$ 0.4 million).
2.21     Development of Secondary Cities and Towns along the
BulawayolHarare/Mutare Corridor. The secondary towns included in this sub-
component are Gweru, Kwekwe/Redcliff, Kadoma, Chegutu, Mutare and
Marondera, all of which are located along the main transport artery and
industrial axis of the country. They are important industrial, commercial
and service centers and have a strong influence on national economic
growth, ;patial distribution of economic activity, and urbanization trends.
As counter poles to Harare and Bulawayo, these towns are expected to grow
as employment centers, thus causing some moderation in the population
growth of the larger cities. The project will provide technical assistance
to further strengthen this ro:e of the corridor towns through the
preparation of a Corridor Town Development Plan and Investment Strategy.
The strategy would include a particular focus on employment creation/income



- 20 -
generation by promoting the expanaion of existing industrial and commercial
activities and attracting new ventures, as well as supporting the
development of the informal sector. Infrastructure and housing will be
available under the subsector loans to support this component. The
technical assistance would comprise 15 staff years (Z$ 2.8 million) and
vehicles and equipment to facilitate operations of the technical assistance
program (Z$ 0.2 million). A study for appraising the small scale/micro and
informal enterprise (SSE) sector would be included under this component and
would examir... zhe structure of SSEs in Zimbabwe, and the opportunities and
constraints to their development and growth (Z$ 0.4 million). Terms of
reference for the technical assistance and the study were prepared and
agreed during appraisal.
2.22     Development of Regional Growth Centers.  The regional growth
center program is based on the principle that the role of the small
centers, in providing essential urban services, also contributes to the
development of the economic potential of the region within which they are
located. In order to determine the most efficient allocation of investment
resources, the project would support the preparation of District
Development Investment Plans on a pilot basis in two provinces (Mashonaland
East and Manicaland). The plans would focus on the role of selected
centers in promoting district development and the linkages of the centers
to their hinterlands, including improvements to the towns as market
centers. Towns with demonstrated growth potential have been chosen.
Special emphasis would be placed on supporting income generation and the
development of employment opportunities, particularly amongst micro-
enterprise/informal sector activities. The growth centers identified for
this sub-component include Mrewa and Mutoko in Mashonaland East, and
Rusape, Murambinda, Chipinge and Nyanga in Manicaland. The project would
provide 15 staff years of technical assistance (Z$ 2.8 million) and related
vehicles and equipment (Z$ 0.2 mill4on).  A fund for financing pilot
capital investments that are considered to have strategic benefits to
employment promotion has also been included (Z$ 11.63 million). Terms of
reference for the technical assistance to be provided under this sub-
component were prepared and agreed during appraisal.
Institutional Development
2.23     Strengthening the Management of Public Investments in the Urban
Sector. At the Central Government level, responsibility for review of
annual capital development proposals by the urban councils under the PSIP
process rests with MLGRUD. The project would strengthen the capacity of
the Ministry to undertake a more comprehensive appraisal of these proposed
investments through technical assistance to, and training of staff in, all
relevant departments. In addition, the technical assistance would provide
for a certain amount of in-service training to the local authorities (see
paras. 2.26 and 3.12). A total of 25 staff years (covering 3 financial
analysts and 2 municipal engineers) would be provided (Z$ 4.8 million),
together with the vehicles and equipment required to support the technical
assistance (2$ 0.5 million).
2.24     Similarly, investments in housing and housing-related
infrastructure are the responsibility of MPCNH which appraises annual
proposals by the local authorities under the PSIP. The capacity of MPCNH
to undertake the technical evaluation of urban housing investment proposals



- 21 -
is also to be strengthened under the project through the provision of 9
staff years (Z$ 1.7 million) of technical. assistance (civil engineer,
architectiplanner and quantity surveyor). In addition vehicles and
equipment are to be provided (ZS 0.2 million). The project will also
finance a study (Z$ 0.1 million), to be directed by MPCNH, of alternative
housing types and densities, and of different options for urban expansion
and diversification that would be facilitated by the development of a range
of housing systems (see para. 3.19). This is in response to growing
conc(erns in Government that there is a need to improve land use standards
in order to achieve greater efficiencies in urban transport and
infrastructure provision. Terms of reference for the technical assistance
and the studies were prepared and agreed during appraisal.
2.25     Strengthening the Institutional Capacity of Local Authorities.  As
part of its program of strengthening local authority financial management,
and in anticipation of the financial consequences likely to result from the
significant future increase in demand for investment in urban services,
MLGRUD has initiated a process requiring, with MLGRUD assistance,
preparation of a FPP by each local authority seeking to borrow funds
through the GDLF. The role of the FPPs and their farmat and content were
agreed during appraisal and confirmed during negotiations. It was also
agreed, and confirmed during negotiations, that all of the twenty-one towns
reviewed to date, would be required to submit complete individual FPPs
satisfactory to MLGRUD and the Bank, by November 30, 1990. The format for
the FPP is included at Annex 11, and completed FPPs for Gweru and Bindura
have been included at Annexes 12 and 13 as examples. Host of the towns
have commenced preparation of their plans and a schedule was agreed on
during appraisal for completing them (see Annex 14). This was confirmed
during negotiations. Integration of the FPP with the appraisal and PSIP
review cycle is described in paras. 3.05 and 3.06 A more detailed
description of the FPPs and their role in the management of local authority
finances is included in para. 4.12.
2.26     The introduction of financial management plans would be
complemented by local authority finance policy studies and training
programs for the local authorities, to be financed under the project, in
order to ensure availability of adequate skills at the management,
supervisory and operational (technician and clerical) levels. Such
training and assistance would be provided as follows: (i) the specialists
provided under paras. 2.23 and 2.24 above would assist local authorities in
preparing their FPPs and their submissions for appraisal under the PSIP
process. This assistance would also include some in-service training in
financial management, internal auditing and accounting procedures; (ii)
funds, on a grant basis, to the local authorities to employ UDCORP or other
local consulting firms to assist with the preparation of the FPPs and
undertake any remedial accounting and systems development/application work
that may be required (four staff years of technical assistance; Z$ 0.6
million); (iii) studies, for which two staff years of technical assistance
are included (Z$ 0.2 million), to improve Government's policy framework for
monitoring local authority financial performance and for determining
specific circumstances under which local authorities would be eligible for
assistance (Annex 15 sets out the studies); and (iv) a sector-wide local
authority training program covering all aspects of local authority
operations (technical/engineering, finance, administration, social
services/housing) at management and functional levels.



- 22 -
2.27     The scope, terms of reference and size of the training program
(para. 2.26 (iv) above) are to be determined by a training needs
assessment, financed by SIDA, that is to commence in June 1989. An
indicative estimate of 18 staff years (Z$ 3.4 million) has been included,
with an additional Z$ 0.4 million for vehicles and equipment. This would
be modified based on the findings of the assessment.
2.28     Program Coordination and Monitoring.  The Program Coordination and
Monitoring Unit (PCMU) established under Urban I will be retained under the
project and expanded to reflect the more extensive scope of the sector
project. An additional municipal engineer and accountant will be
recruited, and a planner/housing specialist will be added to the staff
resulting in a total staff complement of two municipal engineers, one
planner/housing specialist, and three accountants/financial analysts.
Either the more senior municipal engineer or the planner will be designated
as Program Coordinator, in the event that a senior official from either
MLGRUD or MPCNH cannot be seconded to this position. Support staff (three
secretaries) will also be provided. A total of 20 staff years is to be
provided for the PCMU (Z$ 3.8 million) as well as vehicles and equipment
(2$ 0.2). Terms of reference were prepared and agreed during appraisal.
2.29     Strengthening of Urban Transport Planning and Management.  The
Urban Transport Unit was set up under Urban I within the Department of
Physical Planning and has proven effective in guiding urban transport
policy and the urban transport program of MLGRUD. Local staff have also
been trained under Urban I and now occupy key positions in the Unit.
However, the Unit will require additional technical assistance and training
until it is fully staffed, and seven staff years of assistance is to be
provided under the project (Z$ 1.3 million) together with vehicles and
equipment (Z$ 0.1 million).   Terms of reference for the technical
assistance requirements of UTU were prepared and agreed during appraisal.
D. Project Costs
2.30     The estimated total cost of the project including taxes and duties
is Z$ 1,149.5 million (US$580 million), of which US$114.5 million
equivalent or 202 is foreign exchange. Total project costs include land
costs of Z$ 1.8 million (US$0.9 million). Table 2.1 presents a summary
breakdown of the costs for the basic project components (see Annex 16,
Table 1 for detailed cost estimates). Base costs are in June 1989 prices
and include design and supervision costs of Z$ 29.8 million (US$15.7
million). Taxes and duties are estimated at Z$ 65.5 million (US$33.1
million). Cost estimates are based on the assumption that the project
would be executed during the period 1990-1996. Cost estimates for the
primary infrastructure and housing components of the project, which
comprise the subsector loans and represent the major share of total project
costs, are derived from expenditure levels based on past investment
programs, as well as taking into account crrrently available preliminary
engineering designs for the first two years of the program. The land cost
for the housing program will be the bid price for proposed land to be
acquired. Project mortgage amounts are estimated from expected sales
prices of serviced plots, less downpayment on land developed under the
project for residential purposes, and on estimates of material and labor
costs, less downpayments, for house construction costs in the project
areas.



- 23 -
2.31     The advisory services and training activities to be provided by
specialist are estimated to cost about US$8,000 per man-month (inclusive of
housing allowances and transport). Training costs, to be based on actual
costs of training programs identified, will be finalized following
completion of the training needs assessment (see para. 2.27). Design,
supervision and management costs range from 42 to 122, depending on the
extent and repetitiveness of the works involved.
2.32     Physical contingencies are estimated at 102 of base costs
(including design and supervision, but excluding land, mortgage amounts,
and technical assistance and training). Price contingencies on costs of
imported vehicles, equipment, materials and internationally recruited staff
and consultants have been included at annual rates of 32 p.a. in FY 1990
and 42 p.a. thereafter. In the case of local costs, price contingencies
were calculated based on the following factors: 112 in FY 1990 and 102 p.a.
thereafter; these rates reflect the inflationary trends in overall
construction costs in 1987-88. Price increases, for local costs, largely
in the construction sector, are expected to exceed increases in the general
level of prices during the project period. The total price contingencies
amount to about 212 of base costs including physical contingencies but
excluding housing finance. To convert local prices to dollar equivalents,
it is assumed that the divergence between local and foreign price
escalation will be converted by exchange rate adjustments over the life of
the '-oject.
I,



- 24 -
Table 2.1 Sumary of Estimted Projlct Co"t
Fore gn
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  For tsn Total           as 3 oi
-OS     IA UTUt----Z  mlIIon- -    -----USIl Mi ion-----  Total
(n) HOUSING INFRASTRUCTURE
(i) Land Acquisition                  17S    0         1.76       0.82   0        0.92        0
(tt) On-Site Infrastructure
Land Preparation               4.60    0         4.80       2.62    0       2.62        0
Cadastrel Survey               8.66    0.19      8.95       1.98      .10    2.08        S
Roads A Store Water            36.77   26.86    64.62      20.39   18.60   88.99        40
Sewerage                      27.25    8.08     80.26       14.38    1.69   15.92       10
Street Lighting                8.90    1.67      5.67       2.05      .66    2.98      8o
Water Supply                  22.67    6.72     28.59       12.08    8.01   16.04       20
(iii) Design A Supervision             8.40    2.82     11.22       4.41    1.48    5.89       26
Subtotal                        111.40   89.28   yiw         6s.ss       20.04  7Y4       26
(b) HOUSINC FINANCE
(i) Provision of Mortgage           460.00    0       460.00     241.96    0     241.96        0
(tt)  Computer Equipment               0      12.00     12.00       0       6.81    6.81      1oo
Subtotal                       UP5E1                         241.T    -T.X  I. O lE
(c) COMMUNITY FACILITIES
1i) Schools Clinics                  26.60   0         26.60      18.99   0       18.99        0
(tt)  Deign I Superviston              2.12              2.12       1.12            1.12        0
Subtotal                         WW      1i- 0    2!.7T    0                  15.11
(d) ELECTRICITY FACILITIES
(i)  Electricity Infrastructure      26.16   10.78     85.94      18.23    5.67   18.90       80
(It)  Design A Supervision             1.96    0.s6      2.62       1.08     .4    1.48        80
Subtotal                        27.12 -T1 e        1a70      T1W.  -- "l  - 1            so
(I) PRIMARY INFRASTRUCTURE
(i) Infrastructure Works
Roads & Storm Water            15.75    6.75    22.50       6.28    8.56   11.68        so
Water Supply                  47.25   20.25    67.60       24.85   10.65   25.60       s0
Seweorge                      24.50   10.60     86.00      12.89    6.52   16.41        s0
(it) Design A Supervision              6.64    8.19      9.88       8.49    1.68    5.17       82
Subtotal                       -9PT     140.e9   Tli:U       49.c2   1U  -7W             so
(f) UR8AN SERVICES A MAINTENANCE
Ct) Vehicles  *pares, plant, equip. 80.80  46.20    77.00         16.20  24.80  40.60         60
(ii)  Supervision                      1.54    2.81      8.85        .81    1.22    2.08       60
Subtotal                        u;s4  -489.51   -            17.01  IgW 426
(9) REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(i) Technical Assistance & Studies    0       8.10      8.10       0       4.25    4.26      100
(0i)  Vehicles & Equipmnt              0.20   0.20       0.40        .11     .11     .22       s0
(Ili) Pilot Capital Development Fund    6.14    8.49    11.68       4.28    1.84    6.12       80
Subtotal                         8.34   11.79     20.1       14.e' -620O  lO.59          s9
(S) INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(1) Ministry of Local Government
Appr. Supp./Trng. A Studies    0       5.60      5.60       0       2.94    2.94      100
Local Authority Training       0       4.40      8.40       0       1.79    1.79      100
PCMU Technical Assistance      0       8.80      8.80       0       1.99    1.99       100
UTU TechnIcal Aust./Trng.      0        1.80     1.80       0         .66     .68     10O
Vehicles A Equipment           0.60   0.60       1.20       0.82      .82     .64      60
(ii) Mn. of Pub. Const. A Nat. Hsg.
Appr. Supp./Trng. & Studies    0       1.80      1.80       0       0.96    0.95      100
Vehicles A Equipment           0       0.20      0.20       0         .11     .11     100
Subtotal                        0iI58   1.70-    17.ac    -M   --             9.10       98
TOTAL BASE COST                       762.66  160.61    948.27    401.15   94.99 496.14         19
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES 9         -  _                              15.92    8.22   24.14       84
PRICE CONTINGENCIES J    *            126.67   81.68    160.25     47.81   11.91   69J2        20
TOTAL COSTS INCL. CONTINGENCIES  /   921.S1  227.91  1.149.42     464.88  115.12  580.00       20
y Physical contingencies have not been calculated for
Housing Finance, Regional Development Program,
or Institutional Development.
J Price contingencies have not been calculated for
Housing Finance.
V/ Includes taxes and dutioe estimated at ZS 65.5 aillion (US288.1 million).



- 25 -
E.  Project Financing
Financing Plan
2.33     The proposed IBRD loan of US$80.0 million together with
participation of other donors would amount to US$101.0 million (Z$ 200.1
million) would finance about 17.52 of the total project costs. Bilateral
donors would provide the equivalent of US$3.0 million (Z$ 5.7 million) as
grants (0.52). Government funds would provide Us$234 million equivalent
(Z$ 483.6 million) or 402 of total project costs and the building societies
the equivalent of US$242 million (Z$ 460.0 million) or 422 of total project
costs. The financing plan is summarized in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2 Summry Financing Plan by Project Component
-- 8 ml IIion)
IBRD/Bi lateral
Total      Donors Passed on as                 Building
Component                      Cost        Loans      Grants       Gov't       Societies
Low/Moderate Income Housing:
On-site Infrastructure       108.68       23.61                   82.88
Housing Finance              241.96                                          241.96
Computer Equipment            7.16         7.15
Comunity Foci ities            21.86        4.27                    21.86
Electricity Supply             27.80        7.68                    20.17
Primry Infrastructure          94.65       24.18                    68.29
Urban Services A Maintenance   54.81       81.81                    28.60
Regional Development           18.65        2.40                    11.18
Institutional Development      10.21        0.60       8.00         6.71
Total Financing Required      880.00       101.oo      8.00        284.04      241.96
Note: Taxes *nd dutes amounting to UsS. ml millIon
ore Included under Government financing.
2.34     Cofinancing is to be provided as follows:
(a)  Grant funding for the local authority training component,
under assistance from SIDA (US$3.0 million). This would be
based on (i) the outcome of the training needs assessment
which is being financed by SIDA; and (ii) a review of the
next three-year program of institution development assistance
by SIDA to Zimbabwe, which is expected to be finalized by
June 30, 1990. SIDA funding for the local authority training
program, if approved, would be on a parallel-financing basis.
(b)  Soft loan support for civil works (US$21.0 million) which is
under review fo?. funding by the Ministry of Economic
Cooperation of the Federal Republic of Germany and the
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW). A formal decision is
expected to be taken by June 30, 1990.
'1



- 26 -
In the event that SIDA financing is not available, Government funds would
be utilized to provide the additional US$3.0 million required for the local
authority training program. If KfW funding for civil works under the
sector loan is not approved, the sector program would be correspondingly
reduced by US$21.0 million.
Flow of Funds and Onlending .rrangements
2.35     The IBRD loan of US$ 80 million would be made available to GOZ at
the standard IBRD terms with a maturity of 20 years. The proceeds of the
IBRD loan would be passed on to the various implementing agencies as loans
according to prevailing practices, with the exception of the pilot capital
development fund for the regional development component (US$6.1 million),
which would be provided on a grant basis as a budgetary allocation to
MLGRUD. Vehicles and equipment (financed out of the proceeds of the loan)
linked to the technical assistance and training components of the project
would be made available by Government as budgetary allocation (MLGRUD and
MPCNH and grants (local authorities). All technical assistance and
training under the project that is to be cofinanced by donors, would be on
a grant basis and would be passed on to the implementing agencies as
budgetary allocations (MLGRUD and MPCNH) and grants (local authorities).
2.36     The proceeds of the IBRD loan together with the Government's own
contribution to the project will be made available, as shown in Chart 1, as
follows:
(a)  to the GDLF in MLGRUD and the NHF in MPCNH, and then onlent
as follows 11) funds for primary infrastructure, urban
service mairntenance-related vehicles, plant and equipment,
community facilities, and traffic management improvements
would be onlent to the local authorities through the GDLF;
(ii) funds for on-site infrastructure for housing purposes
would be onlent to the local authorities through the NHF;
(b)  as loan from MFEPD to the building societies for computer
equipment; and
(c)  as a loan from MFEPD to the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply
Authority (ZESA).
2.37     The terms and conditions of the onlending of funds to (i) the
local authorities would be in accordance with prevailing terms of the GDLF
and the NHF (see paras. 4.16 to 4.18), for a period of 25 years including a
grace period of 3 years; (ii) the building societies would be on commercial
lending terms including interest at the prevailing prime rate plus a
percentage to cover the foreign exchange risk; and (iii) ZESA would be in
accordance with prevailing terms to parastatals, currently 9.752 per annum,
payable in 20 years including a grace period of 5 years. Subsidiary loan
agreements satisfactory to the Bank, between Government and each of the
implementing agencies (eligible local authorities, ZESA and the three local
authorities) would be required in order for disbursements to be made
against expenditures incurred under the project by each agency. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government. The terms and
conditions of the on-lending arrangements were reviewed and agreed on
during negotiations.



- 27 -
CHART 1 - Flow of Funds
|World Bank|
|overnment of Zimbabwe|
I   I     .
i   ~~ ~~~~ -l       - - - -- !--.                        n
Zimbabwe          Ministry of          Ministry of Local
Electricity     Construction and      Government Rural and
Supply        National Housing        Urban Development          l
Administration                                                        l
Nat'l Hsing Fund     Gen. Dev. Loan Fund           l
IillI                                            o---l
+   I       * ~~~X  J}IJ r- -- - -- -            
l I                Local Authorities
I   I                          I ms                     I Building SocietiesI
l E i.~~~~~~~~- -   - - - - -_ __ -
Contractors           |
l   l            and Suppliers          j:
,   |                                   I: IInvestment
!   I      in Infrastructure        !
*I                                      * 1    I
I   LI                       
--... -- - - - - - - - - --
Households
(Beneficiaries)
Investment
in Housing
Loan Funds.
- - - - Repayment of Loan Over period of years.
....... Payment for Plots Purchased from Local Authorities.
Repayment of some capital development costs through tariffs and rates.
Notes: (1) Grant funds for institutional development and regional development
would flow from donor to Government of Zimbabwe to the two ministries
shown and through them to local authorities.
(2) Government funds not derived from external sources may be either
loans or grants to the two ministries, Zimbabwe Electricity Supply
Administration or local authorities.
(3) Loans by Government to building societies are for the purpose of
purchasing computer equipment.



- 28 -
2.38     Plot/house loans to project beneficiaries would be provided by the
building societies on the following terms: the prevailing market rate of
Jnterest, currently 12.5?, a grace period of six to nine months and a term
to maturity of 25 years. The interest rate would be adjusted periodically
to reflect prevailing financial and economic conditions, following current
practice of the building societies.
F. Environmental Impact
2.39     Zimbabwe has long recognized the need to protect the watercourses
which provide the country's drinking water and the project will seek to
maintain the high standard achieved, and introduce improvements where
required. Standards for discharge of waste into watercourses are strict
and most of the country's towns have satisfactory sewerage systems; some
low density areas have septic tanks rather than sewers. Sewage is treated
either in oxidation ponds or with other appropriate methods including
activated sludge processes. Under the project, the continued use of these
environmentally sound methods will be encouraged.
2.40     The primary infrastructure component of the project includes
substantial new investment in sewerage and sewage treatment facilities to
ensure that the increased generation of wastewater resulting from both
housing and industrial development will be properly collected via
waterborne sewerage systems and treated to the required standards. Where
industrial wastewater causes particular problems (e.g. in Chitungwiza), new
treatment facilities are to be installed. In Victoria Falls, where sewage
now collected from the town via a waterborne sewerage system is discharged
(after screening only) directly into the Zambezi River, the HLGRUD has been
pressing the Town Council to construct proper treatment facilities. Under
the project, the local authority will be able to carry out the installation
of these facilities.
2.41     Vehicles and equipment to be provided under the project will
assist in addressing environmental problems in a number of ways. One of
these problems is the shrinking and deteriorating vehicle fleets that have
degraded the quality of solid waste collection services. New vehicles and
plant to be provided through the project will help improve the collection
and disposal of waste (in sanitary landfill) and contribute to better urban
services.
2.42     The proposed housing program will support efforts to accommodate
the rapidly growing urban population in properly planned environments,
serviced with water and sewerage reticulation, roads, electricity,
lighting, and surface-water drainage. New housing developments will be
located in generally flat and clear terrain and such growth should not
result in environmental damage. Where the expansion of town areas is
required for housing development, farms are usually acquired and the
existing trees or small wooded areas are normally well-preserved in
proposed housing layouts; these areas with trees are often allocated to
public parks and other community purposes. In no instance will
resettlement of existing populations be required to accommodate new
development.



- 29 -
2.43     In a number of towns, there are currently some densely populated
and poorly-serviced housing areas (e.g. Epworth in Harare, and parts of
Redcliff, Kariba and Shurugwi). These particular residential areas will be
improved through abandonment of communal toilet facilities and communal
water points and the provision of more satisfactory substitute facilities.
Among the benefits from these changes will be the reduction of water losses
and the prevention of serious pollution now caused by overloaded septic
tanks.
G. Impact on Women
2.44     The availability of low-cost housing not only improves women's
access to housing but also relieves them of some of the pressure to supply
supplemental income to the household, a burden that can be severe when they
are caring for small children. Their limited earnings are chiefly derived
from work in the informal sector because men are generally preferred over
women for wage employment. Yet women's earnings are often essential to
their family's ability to obtain satisfactory housing.
2.45     For the female head of household, and there are many of them in
Zimbabwe, access to low-cost housing is of particular significance in view
of their usually precarious financial circumstances and economic
vulnerability. Under the housing project, as has been evidenced in the
plot and mortgage allocation procedures under Urban I, they will have
access to available housing equal to that of other household applicants
including access to credit and support programs.
2.46     Many rural women, both married and single, seek to improve their
economic situation or living conditions by moving from communal areas to
urban centers. A major deterrent to such relocation, however, is a severe
shortage of urban housing. Often a husband will leave his rural home and
work in an urban area for an extended period until he can find housing that
will enable the family to join him in the city. The availability of new
urban housing, as provided under the project, will thus facilitate the
desired relocation of many women. This opportunity will mean a substantial
easirng of the extreme workload that women traditionally bear in rural areas
since they are generally responsible for the heavy and time-consuming
burden of carrying water and firewood, often from distant sources of
supply, to their homes.



- 30 -
III. IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT
A. Institutional Arrangements
Overview
3.01     The experience of the Government of Zimbabwe in implementing the
First Urban Development Project demonstrated the considerable strength of
existing institutions, Not only have local authorities carried out their
functions under the project efficiently, but also the central Government
has effectively coordinated and monitored implementation, integrating the
investment requirements of the project with the annual PSIP exercise. The
establishment and operation of a Steering Committee to provide policy
guidance with project execution, comprising senior officials from the
implementing ministries and MFEPD, and a Program Coordination and
Monitoring Unit (PCMU), based in MLGRUD but responsible to the Steering
Committee, to monitor day-to-day operations, also contributed to the
satisfactory performance under Urban I.
3.02     Recognizing the complexity of the proposed project and the
relatively simple implementation arrangements as evidenced under Urban I,
maximum use is to be made of existing institutions and established
procedures. The local authorities will assume the primary role in project
execution, having responsibility for planning, designing and constructing
all civil works and coAmunity facilities which comprise the major part of
the investment to be funded through Bank assistance. As previously noted,
financing provided to the local authorities will flow through the GDLF and
che NHF while financing of plot purchases and house construction will be
provided and managed by the building societies in close cooperation with
the local authorities, particularly in the area of allocation procedures.
The latter functions will be monitored by MPCNH and the PCMU. Management
and coordination of implementatiorn of local authority training and
technical assistance activities will be the responsibility of MLGRUD. The
electricity facilities component of the project will be implemented by
ZESA. Regional development will be implemented mainly by MLGRUD's
Department of Physical Planning which will be strengthened with technical
assistance support.
3.03     Under the proposed project, the overall monitoring of the various
project activities will continue to be undertaken by the PCHU, assisted by
MPCNH on the housing component, and facilitated by the Steering Committee,
which will comprise the permanent secretaries (or their designees) from
each of the two implementing ministries and MFEPD. This committee, which
will provide oversight and general guidance on project implementation, will
be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MLGRUD, with the Program Coordinator
serving as Secretary. The PCMU will report directly to the Chairman of the
Steering Committee to ensure that project implementation will be carried
out in accordance with the Loan Agreement. During negotiations, these
arrangements, including the staffing of the PCMU were reviewed and agreed.



- 31 -
Sector Loan Procedures
3.04     The PSIP system utilized by Government for determining the scope
and scale of the annual urban infrastructure and housing program was
reviewed during appraisal (see paras. 4.14 and 4.15) and was found to be a
reasonably thorough, equitable, orderly, and timely process with reliable
checks and balances on both the types and levels of investments being
proposed by the local authorities. Accordingly, and taking into account
progress under Urban I, there is sufficient experience to initiate a sector
lending approach to urban service and housing developments. Some further
strengthening of the key organizational entities, both at the center
(MLGRUD and MPCNH) and amongst the local authorities, is to be provided
under the project, particularly to enhance their capability to undertake
appraisals of specific investment proposals (see paras. 2.23, 3.12, and
3.17).  During negotiations, a schedule for recruiting the technical
assistance for MLGRUD and MPCNH by December 31, 1989 was reviewed and
agreed.
3.05     Given the satisfactory existing system, it was concluded that the
appraisal of investments under the sector loan should be carefully
integrated into the annual budgetary cycle, strengthening without modif)ing
existing PSIP procedures. The sector loan approach, in introducing a more
vigorous appraisal performance, is expected to provide significant
benefits, including the following: (i) substantial improvements in
evaluation by the local authorities of the technical feasibility of
proposals. In particular, this would contribute to the development of
least cost solutions and, based on more extensive feasibility analysis
requirements, would ensure greater cost-efficiencies in the scheduling of
investments; (ii) more effective prioritization between competing
investments and between competing local authorities; (iii) better
coordination and balance between inter-dependent investments (for example,
excess capacity in water treatment in relation to transmission capacity; or
excess waste treatment capacity in relation to treated water
supply/consumption); (iv) introduction of economic indicators of rates of
return as a factor in investment decisions; and (v) introduction of the FPP
which would serve as the key instruments in determining the affordability
of proposed investments as measured against existing and projected
financial performance by each local authority, and would consequently
facilitate greater discipline in expenditures and improved financial
management controls.
3.06     The procedures that were agreed during the appraisal mission for
undertaking appraisals of proposed projects and integrating them with the
PSIP are described in Annex 17 and are to be circulated by MFEPD through
MLGRUD and MPCNH, for primary infrastructure and housing respectively, to
the local authorities as part of the annual PSIP package. In addition, the
package would include a summary of the appraisal criteria to be utilized in
evaluating submissions under the PSIP, as agreed during appraisal (see
Annex 18). Attached to the appraisal criteria are detailed guidelines for
preparing the requisite technical and financial information. An
information sheet designed to augment MPCNH's existing PSIP format was
prepared and agreed during appraisal and is set out in Annex 19. MPCNH
would attach this sheet to the PSIP package they circulate to the local
authorities for preparation of the annual submissions. The appraisal
procedures and criteria agreed during appraisal were confirmed at
negotiations.



- 32 -
3.07     For all infrastructure and housing projects financed under the
sub-sector loans, MLGRUD and MPCNH would complete and retain Project
Appraisal Summaries, copies of which would be provided to the PCMU. These
summaries would be subject to a posteriori review by the Bank, on request,
on a sample basis. For those individual projects estimated to cost more
than US$5.0 million (excluding the cost, in the case of housing projects,
of house construction), the appraisal conducted by MLGRUD or MPCNH would be
forwarded to the Bank by the respective Ministry in the form of a Project
Appraisal Summary, through the PCMU, for review prior to approval and
inclusion under the sector loan. During negotiations, it was agreed that
MLGRUD would forward Project Appraisal Summaries. to the Bank for review and
approval for any project costing more than US$S.0 million.
Local Authorities
3.08     The 21 local authorities currently approved for participation in
the project differ somewhat in status (Cities, Municipal Councils, Town
Councils, and Town Boards), but in general provide similar basic community
services to the residents within their respective areas. The various
functions of the city and town administrations are carried out through
departments, of which the Engineers (or Works), Treasurers, and Community
Services (including housing) play a primary role in the design, preparation
and implementation of the project. Current capacities for detailed project
preparation and execution were evaluated and are considered generally
adequate, although further strengthening, particularly with the more
thorough project appraisal standards being introduced under the project, is
to be accomplished indirectly through the technical assistance to MLGRUD
and MPCNH and directly through the local authority training program (see
paras. 3.12 and 3.13). The local authorities have also relied,
traditionally, on the consulting services of the private sector, which are
well developed in Zimbabwe, and this practice, which has proven effective,
is expected to continue under the project. The services of UDCORP will
further add to the options available to the local authorities for
consultant support. In order to ensure coordination of implementation and
monitoring of progress, each local authority would establish a Working
Committee with at least one representative from each of the above three
departments serving on the committee, and would designate one of the
members as Project Coordinator.
3.09     The community services departments will assume responsibility for
administering and implementing the housing component of the project on
completion of civil works. This will include beneficiary selection and
plot allocation, in conjunction with the building societies, assistance to
the beneficiaries with building their housing, and inspection (together
with the department of works, engineering or building and amenities) of
construction to ensure that appropriate standards are met. The typical
organizational structures of two different sized local authorities (Harare
and Bindura) are diagramed in Annex 20, Charts 20.1 and 20.2 respectively.
3.10     Housing allocation procedures will be itn accordance with current
practices under the National Housing Fund (which are utilized under Urban I
and are satisfactory to the Bank), which are based on local authority
waiting lists, that are updated annually. It was confirmed at negotiations



- 33 -
that, in terms of 1989 incomes, 70X of the plots would be sold to low-
income households; that is households with incomes below Z$650 per month
(of these, 60% would be for households with incomes below Z$450 per moath,
and 40% would be for households with monthly incomes between Z$450 and
Z$650). The remaining 301 of the plots developed under the project would
be allocated to moderatellower-middle income households earning between
Z$650 and Z$1000 per month. Thesa income ceilings would be subject to
revision from t4me-to-time in line with changes in incomes And prices, and
subject to Bank review and confirmation. No minimum income limit would be
set, but affordability in each case would be evaluated in terms of income,
size of unit to be built (one room plus abluticn is considered a minimum
initial provision to permit plot occupation), amount of personal savings to
be utilized, and specific information on or evidence of mode of
construction to be employed (informal contractors and payment in kind
considerably reduce construction costs). Income from renting of rooms will
also be taken into account where appropriate. Applicants satisfying the
above criteria who require mortgage loans will be allocated a plot
provisionally, subject to approval of a mortgage by the building society.
Based on consideration of the above, the amount of the mortgage loan will
be determined assuming that about 251 of income is required for servicing
the mortgage payments. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
Government that in accordance with Government policy of self-managed
progressive house construction, one room plus ablution facility would be
the accepted minimum initial provision that would allow plot occupation and
would serve as the basis for evaluating aifordability when allocating plots
and mortgage loans.
Central Government
3.11     MLGRUD is responsible for all major programs (other than housing)
affecting local government administration throughout Zimbabwe, and all
aspects of local authority finance. The organization of MLGRUD is
diagramed in Annex 20. Chart 20.3 The five departments of the uinistry
with project-related responsibilities are Urban Councils, Rural Councils,
Financial Services, Local Government Promotion and Training, and Physical
Planning.
3.12     Primary responsibility in MLGRUD for the project appraisal and
PSIP evaluation process of all local authority investments proposed under
the sub-sector loan is to be shared by the Departments of Financial
Services, Urban Councils, and Rural Councils, with Financial Services
playing a coordinating role. The municipal engineers and financial
analysts to be provided the Ministry to assist with establishing and
operating the appraisal system (see para. 2.23) would be placed in the
Urban Councils Department (but be available to the Rural Councils
Department as needed) and the Financial Services Department respectively.
A major additional activity of these specialists would be in-service
support to the local authorities in preparing submissions for the annual
PSIP that would include proposed investment programs, feasibility studies
and technical studies for specific investments, as well as preparing or
updating the FPP. The local authorities and MLGRUD would follow the
appraisal process referred to in para. 3.06.
3.13     The local authority training program would be the responsibility
of the Local Government Promotion and Training Department of MLGRUD,



- 34 -
although most training activity is expected to be delivered by current
programs operating in the local authorities, and supported by the technical
assistance proposed under the project. In particular, this includes the
infrastructure maintenance and workshop-based training provided by Harare
City Council to all local authorities in Zimbabwe, and a finance training
program similarly located within one or two major city councils (Harare and
possibly Bulawayo). The technical assistance to be provided under the
project would be coordinated by the Local Government Promotion and Training
Department, but would probably be seconded, in large part, to the local
authorities providing the training. The eventual design of the training
program and the modalities and schedule for delivering it would be reviewed
and agreed on following completion of the training needs assessment being
financed by SIDA, that is referred to in paza. 2.27. The training program
would be coordinated and integrated with those support services provided by
UDCORP.
3.14     The regional development component would be implemented by the
various departments in MLGRUD, including Physical Planning, Urban Councils,
Rural Councils, and Rural Development, and with the relevant local
authorities. Existing planning procedures would be followed to ensure
appropriate coordination between the various sector agencies. The
implementation arrangements would also be coordinated with the available
skills in UDCORP.
3.15     The PCMU would monitor and coordinate progress with implementation
of all aspects of the project and would provide assistance. on a
contingency basis, where problems are being encountered. As part of its
responsibilities for monitorirg progress, the PCMU would also provide
support to strengthen the intormation management capabilities of MLGRUD,
MPCNH and the local authorities regarding investment programming and
monitoring of progress with project implementation. The PCMU would
coordinate GOZ inputs to the Project Completion Report, which should be
completed within six months of the project closing date. The Program
Coordinator, the senior municipal engineer, and the senior financial
analyst would be appointed before December 31, 1989. This schedule,
together with that for recruitment of other staff to the PCMU was confirmed
during negotiations. The PCMJ would also be responsible for preparing and
submitting to the bank, through MFEPD, all disbursement applications.
3.16     MPCNH.  The functions of MPCNH include: (i) setting natior.al
housing policies; (ii) ensuring that these policies are implemented by the
local authorities; (iii) controlling, through the NHF, the flow of finances
to the local authorities for housing-related infrastructure and housing
development in general; (iv) advising the Minister on proposals for low-
cost housing development; (v) reviewing and approving all housing
development projects, including the PSIP review process for housing
investment proposals; (vi) undertaking research to provide a basis for
sound housing policies and for assistance in housing and infrastructure
layout design and construction; and (vii) undertaking major low-cost
housing projects directly on behalf of local authorities (most likely in
rural areas) where this is deemed necessary. The organizational structure
of MPCNH is diagramed in Annex 20, Chart 20.4.



- 35 -
3.17     Primary responsibility for Central Government appraisal of housing
investments by the local authorities rests with the Strategic Planning
Branch, the Professional Services Division, and the Housing Policy Division
of MPCNH. The technical assistance to be provided by the Ministry under
the project (see para. 2.24) would be based in the Professional Services
Division, but would service the other two departments as needed in support
of their housing investment appraisal functions. Because of the linkage of
all housing investment to the availability of primary infrastructure, and
the role played by MLGRUD in determining the affordability of any proposed
investments to each local authority, MPCNH would be responsible for
coordinating its projected investment program with MLGRUD. This is
provided for in the appraisal procedures set out in Annex 17.
3.18     House construction, to be managed by the beneficiary, would be
based on a policy of progressive development and would be phased according
to ability to pay (see para. 3.11). During project implementation, the
Professional Services Division of MPCNH would monitor all aspects of the
housing component including preparation by the local authorities of the
housing section of the semi-annual progress reports. MPCNH would also
provide technical assistance to local authorities, as needed, with
preparation of housing programs, PSIP submissions and applications for use
of borrowing powers.
3.19     MPCNH is in the process of diversifying the range of housing types
it promotes under its housing program in order to improve efficiency,
increase density, provide for a wider range of options to the different
income groups, and improve the quality of the environment through greater
variety. To support this effort under the project, a short-term
consultancy would prepare a housing diversification program designed to
include a range of alternative area layouts, housing prototype designs and
higher densities. This work would be done under the MPCNH and the results
would then provide the basis for further elaboration by the Ministry,
utilizing in-house staff (including the technical assistance provided under
the project) and, where necessary, local consultants.
Building Societies
3.20     The building societies have well-established procedures for making
mortgage loans. These procedures have been followed under Urban I, but
with modifications being introduced gradually in response to the experience
gained in accommodating very high volumes of small loans. The revised
practices, while consistent with secure lending operations, provide for:
(i) improved coordination amongst key actors -- the local authorities,
MPCNH, the legal profession and the Surveyor-General; (ii) simplified
procedures for the beneficiary including the introduction of a "one-stop"
mortgage application/approval system; and (iii) rapid computerization,
including the development of custom software packages for loan processing.
During appraisal, these procedures were reviewed in detail and were
determined to be fully satisfactory. In order to ensure that an effective
mortgage allocation system is maintained, and to facilitate additional
efficiencies being introduced, it was agreed during appraisal, and this was
confirmed during negotiations, that progress review meetings would be held
at least bi-monthly, chaired by the Program Coordinator. The building
societies and the local authorities would maintain current reports on the



- 36 -
status of mortgage approvalldrawdown and plot allocation/house
construction, respectively, according to the formats set out in Annexes 10
and 21.
3.21     The mortgage loans to be provided by the building societies would
be sufficient to cover at least the purchase price of the plot plus the
cost of constructing a minimum shelter of one room and ablution facility.
The average mortgage for low-income owners is expected to be in the range
of ZS 5,000 - 8,000 and for medium-income owners Z$ 12,000 - 15,600. The
terms of the loan would be 25 years with a variable interest rate set at
the prevailing lower tier rate (currently 12.52) of the building societies.
B. Procurement
3.22     Contracts for civil works will be bulked together in bidding
packages to the maximum extent possible. However, the relatively small
size (the majority of the contracts do not exceed US$1.0 million),
scattered subproject locations (up to 50 local authorities) and staging of
contracts make it unlikely that foreign firms will be attracted. However,
a number of locally established foreign contractors in Zimbabwe should be
interested in bidding. All civil works contracts below US$1.5 million will
be awarded on the basis of LCB; foreign firms may participate in the
bidding. Nevertheless, because a number of contracts are expected to be
large, infrastructure works totalling about US$30.0 million are expected to
be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. There will be prequalification of firms for civil works
contracts, whether ICB or LCB is to be used, so that implementing agencies
can assess each firm's experience, financial standing, capacity, and
performance on similar construction works.
3.23     Because of their small size, most contracts for community
facilities will not be attractive to foreign firms. Therefore, contracts
for construction of community facilities totalling US$21.4 million will be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures, which have
been reviewed and are satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign bidders may
participate.
3.24     Materials, equipment and labor for house construction totalling
US$242.0 million (all of which is financed by the building societies), will
be procured directly by individual households from local suppliers and
contractors.
3.25     Construction of certain infrastructure works and community
facilities by force account in the project towns will constitute about
US$30.0 million. This is considered an acceptable alternative to
competitive bidding because the works are small and scattered, in many
instances in remote locations where mobilization costs for contractors
would be unreasonably high. For some works, the quantities cannot be
defined in advance. In addition, experience under Urban I has shown that
qualified contractors may, in some cases not be interested. The works
would be carried out by the city or town engineer's department, which has
proven fully satisfactory under Urban I.
3.26     Equipment and vehicles totalling about US$33.0 million would be
grouped wherever possible into lots of at least US$250,000 and would be



- 37 -
procured through ICB. Items of equipment, materials, vehicles, spare parts
and supplies in lots of less than US$250,000 may be procured in accordance
with Government's standard procedures for local competitive bidding, which
were reviewed at appraisal and are considered acceptable.
3.27     US$3.0 million, to be provided by SIDA for technical assistrnce
and training, would be procured according to SIDA guidelines. Incremental
operating expenses (including staff salaries) would be paid directly under
government budgets.
3.28     Contracts for works exceeding US$1.5 million and for goods
exceeding US$250,000 will require prior Bank review of bidding
documentation and contract awards. The ceiling of US$1.5 million for civil
works is relatively high as LCB limits have normally been US$1.0 million.
However, the higher limit is being proposed because (i) experience under
Urban I has shown that contracts exceeding even this level have not been
attractive to foreign firms becavie of the capacity and competitive nature
of the construction industry in- Aimbabwe (under Urban I, which included a
large number of similar civil works contracts, none were awarded to
overseas contractors not represented locally, and very few submitted bids);
(ii) foreign firms are well represented locally and local bidding
procedures allow them to participate fully; and (iii) the geographically
dispersed location of many contracts would make ICB very difficult to
administer and unattractive to overseas firms. For all other contracts,
documentation will be forwarded to che Bank prior to submission of
disbursement applications. These procurement arrangements were confirmed
during negotiations.
Table 8.1 Procurement Arran90ments
MUSMMIlOn)
Total
Project Element           ICS      LCB    CB *   Otherb/   Coatc/
Civil Works               80.0    178.0   21.0   30.0    259.0
(6.0)   (86.6)          (6.0)   (47.6)
V:%hcl.e and Equipment    83.0     30.1                     68.1
(20.4)    (12.0)                  (B2.4)
Technical Assistance A Trng.                      14.5      14.6
Hous Construction Loans                           242.0    242.0
Land Acquisition                                   1.4       1.4
Total Cost                68.0    208.1   21.0  287.9    680.0
(26.4)   4'7-)  -                TO 80. 0)
s/ Competitive bidding in accordance with cofinanclers' rules and regulations.
i Force Account, loeal shopping, hiring of consultants, and land acquisitton.
2/ Includes taxes and dutles, estimated at about USS33.1 million.
Note: Figures in parenthess are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.



- 38 -
C. Disbursements
3.29     Disbursements of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be made on
the following basis:
(a) 201 of total expenditures for all civil works; and
(b) 1002 of foreign expenditures and 50Z of locally procured
items for equipment and vehicles.
3.30     Disbursements would be made against standard Bank documentation
and, under category (a), would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for purchase orders, design and supervision, and works
implemented by force account. Disbursements under category (b) would be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for contracts and purchase
orders with a total value less than US$100,000. A schedule of estimated
disbursement of the Bank loan is presented in Table 3.2. In order to
ensure the timely provision of funds available to finance the costs of
works and goods to be procured under the project, the Government would
establish a Special Account in the amount of US$4.0 million. Funds in the
Special Account would be available to finance only eligible expenditures
under the project. The arrangements for establishing and operating the
Special Account were agreed during negotiations. The project is expected
to be completed by June 30, 1996.
Table 8.2 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(USI 1,000)
Bank Fisecl                                                                  % Cumulative
Year           Quarter       Date          Disbursed      Cumulative        Disbursed
1990               1          Sep. 80             0               0            0
2          Dec. 81             0               0            0
8          March 31          400             400         Negligible
4          June 80           400             800            1
1991               1          Sep. 80           1000           1800            2
2          Dec. 81          1400            8200            4
8          March 81          1600           4800            6
4          June 80           1600           6400            8
1992               1          Sep. 80           2600           8900            11
2          Dec. 81          8100           12000           15
8          March 81         8600          b1600            19
4          June 80          8800            19200          24
1998               1          Sep. 80           8600           22800           29
2          Dec. 81          8600           26400           33
8          March 81         4000           80400           38
4          June 80          4000           34400           43
1994               1          Sep. 80           4000           88400          48
2          Dec. 81          4000           4240C           63
8          March 81         2800           46200           60
4          June 80          2800           48000           60
1995               1          Sep. 80           4000           62000           65
2          Dec. 81          4000           56000           70
8          March 81         4000           60000           76
4          June 80          4000           64000           80
1996               1          Sep. 80           4000           68000           8S
2          Dec. 81          4000           72000           90
8          March 81         4000           76000           96
4          June 80          4000           80000           100



- 39 -
D. Accounts, Audits and Reporting Requirements
3.31     All institutions receiving or benefitting from Bank funds would
maintain, according to acceptable accounting standards, such financial
records as would enable all Bank funds disbursed for the project to be
clearly-identified and audited. The records should be such as to enable an
auditor to certify that Bank loans disbursed for the Project have been
spent on the purposes for which they were intended. The institutions
include, MLGRUD, MPCNH, ZESA, all participating local authorities, the
Project Monitoring Unit (PCMU), the building societies, and any other
entity receiving Bank funds. In addition to the above accounts, the PCMU
would also maintain a consolidated project account for all project
components, which would be included in the semi-annual progress reports
described in para. 3.34 below.
3.32     The separate project accounts maintained by MLGRUD and MPCNH would
be audited either by the Office of the Auditor-General or private auditors
appointed by his office, and this would be completed within nine months of
the end of the Government fiscal year. The project account audit reports
of MLGP.UD and MPCNH would also contain a separate opinion on the statement
of expenditure procedure.
3.33     In order to monitor the financial performance of the other
implementing agencies (the local authorities, ZESA and the building
societies), their financial statements would be audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank and the audit reports would be submitted to
the Bank within nine months of the end of their respective fiscal years.
The financial statements would separately identify project-related
expenditures. The audit report would contain a separate opinion on
compliance by the implementl.ag agencies with all financial covenants under
the Bank loan. It is expected that UDCORP would either carry out the
audits of the local authorities, or would appoint private auditors; these
arrangements are considered satisfactory. ZESA and the building societies
are expected to be audited by private auditors.
3.34     All project implementing institutions noted in para. 3.31 would
prepare progress reports on project implementation. The PCMU would monitor
progress with the reports and provide support to ensure completion of each
agency's report within one month of the end of each half-year. The format
for these reports will follow those utilized satisfactorily under Urban I.
Two additional forms will be added, one to be completed by the local
authorities to report on the status of housing development (see Annex 21),
the other to be completed by the building societies to report on the status
of mortgage loan allocations (see para. 2.18 and Annex 10). The PCMU will
synthesize these contributions into a consolidated semi-annual report that
will be forwarded to the Bank within two months of the end of the half-year
covered by the report.
3.35     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all
implementing agencies would comply with the foregoing accounting, auditing,
and reporting requirements.



- 40 -
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Local Authority Finance
Accounts and Budgets
4.01     Municipalities in Zimbabwe produce detailed accounts and budget
estimates and are responsible for maintaining strict control over
expenditures. Their accounting system is based on the income and
expenditure method used by local governments in the United Kingdom (UK).
Expenditure is accrued on both revenue and capital account, to the extent
that creditors who are paid up to three weeks following the end of the
fiscal year, are recorded in that fiscal year. In respect of debtors, all
known income is accrued, including rates due but not billed; and bad and
doubtful debts are written off annually. Each municipality is required to
prepare both revenue and capital budgets and a three.-year capital plan,
annually. These annual budgets are submitted to MLGhUD for review prior to
the start of the new financial year.
4.02     Municipal revenue budgets are divided into separate accounts, with
expenditures and income of each type charged to a particular account. In
general, each account is expected to be self-financing.
4.03     General administration expenses are funded out of two accounts;
the low density (middle and high income) areas are financed out of the
rates accounts while the high density (low and moderate income) areas are
financed out of what is now called the housing account or Local Government
Areas (LGA) account, for which the sources are mainly supplementary charges
and rents collected in these areas. Both the rates account and the various
housing (LGA) accounts also receive the proceeds of certain general
municipal taxes collected in their areas including fees paid by business
organizations for business licenses and fees paid by motor vehicle owners.
4.04     The separate financing for general administration purposes between
the rates account and the housing (LGA) account basically corresponds to
the division between high and low-income areas, a distinction carried over
from the past. This separation of financing has had the effect that the
areas with the greatest density and lowest incomes are largely supported by
the resources their particular areas can generate (excepting water,
sewerage, and electricity). Progress is being made by the local
authorities, albeit slowly, in implementing a "one-city" based accounting
system. Significantly, the city of Harare now merges the accounts. In
some cities, pending the implementation of the one-city concept of
accounting, any surplus from the rates fund is transferred to the housing
account to cover potential deficits in the latter.
4.05     The largest portion of municipal revenues flows through accounts
established for the purpose of financing (and collecting income from) the



- 41 -
provision of basic services. Each city has at least separate electricity1
and water accounts, and Harare has also established separate waste
management and sewerage accounts.  These accounts are funded by tariffs and
flat monthly charges levied by the city council and are intended to cover
the full cost of the services (see Annex 22 for a table of service charges
for 21 towns as of August 1988); the tariffs are generally revised as
necessary to keep abreast of changes in costs. In most cases, consumption
by the resident or customer is individually measured and billed.
4.06     Costs of social services in the high density areas are financed by
the beer account, which receives its revenues from the profits made by the
municipality on the manufacture and sale of beer. Up to 502 of the annual
profits from these beer sales may be used to finance low income housing, on
a revolving fund basis, while the rest must go for social services in the
current year. Any use of these funds which does not directly conform to
the established regulations must be approved by the MLGRUD.
Financial Status of the Local Authorities
4.07     Zimbabwe's cities have well-developed public services and their
financial performance or condition varies considerably; as indicated in
para. 1.21 there are some recent tendencies toward financial stress. The
principle of cost recovery is applied to services that can be run
commercially, such as water supply and waste disposal, but tariff increases
are sometimes delayed awaiting Central Government approval. Revenue
collections operate well and the accounts do not show any substantial
arrears. From 1980 to 1983, local government revenues, including small
transfers from Central Government, rose from Z$ 335.4 million to Z$ 675.1
million while total expenditures increased from Z$ 268.0 to Z$ 496.1
million and the current surplus increased from Z$ 67.4 million to Z$ 179.0
million. Subsequently, Central Government reduced its grants for education
and public health as responsibility for those functions was shifted to
local authorities.
4.08     A review of the income and expenditures of 21 local authorities
included under the project indicates that several of the towns had deficits
in their annual operating activity during FY 1988. These deficits have
been funded through various mechanisms including the drawdown of reserves
and balances, increasing the amounts owing creditors and the deferral of
repayments of loans made by the GDLF and the NHF. The deterioration of the
financial condition of many authorities has occurred recently and, although
the situation is not yet severe, the trend must be reversed. Annex 23
summarizes the trend in the annual recurrent budget surplus/deficit in the
21 selected local authorities. Generally, growth in revenues has fallen
short of increasing expenditures and few local authorities have been able
to accumulate surpluses. The rise in expenditures has resulted from a
1/ Recently, these electricity accounts were transferred to ZESA, along
with responsibility for providing reticulation services and power
generation under a restructuring of the power sector supported by the Bank
under the Zimbabwe Power I Project (ZIM 2212) and the Power Management
Assistance Project implemented by the Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program.



- 42 -
combination of factors including inflation, the increased demand for
services, and weakening of financial control. For 3 of the 21 councils,
five-year trend analyses of income and expenditures, including the level of
reserves is included as part of Annexes 5, 6, and 7.2   The FPP is to serve
as the means for reversing this recent decline in financial performance.
4.09     During the past five-year period, both the rate and housing (LGA)
accounts in the 21 towns taken together have had continuing deficits on an
annual basis. Aggregating accounts, of course, obscures particular cases
of good or bad performance. Generally, deficits in particular years have
been offset in subsequent years by increases in rates and supplementary
charges. In addition, cities have had to rely on financial surplu!es from
the accounts for water and beer undertakings to cover, in part, the
deficits in the rates and the housing accounts, at least on a temporary
basis until rents and rates were subsequently adjusted.
4.10     The deficits occur mainly because of delays in implementing
required increases in tariffs, rates, rents and supplementary charges to
meet steadily rising expenditures, delays caused to some extent by the
availability of funds from other sources. Over the years, tariffs have
changed only infrequently; recently, several councils have received MLGRUD
approval of substantial percentage increases in tariffs. Consistent with
the recommendations of the Bank's Urban Sector Report, under the Urban I
project Government initiated policies designed to rationalize housing
development and finance; these include local authorities financing only
plot development, and shifting responsibility for financing house
construction to the private sector. Another significant policy change by
MPCNH was the discontinuance of further provision of rental hrusing; thus,
home ownership is now emphasized and rental housing is becoming a
decreasing factor in municipal housing activity.
4.11     The aggregate debt of local authorities increased between 1980 and
1983 from Z$ 326.8 million to Z$ 562.7 million, or 72Z, a substantial rise
but a lesser percentage increase than that of Central Government debt which
rose by 1522 in the same period. The increased local government debt
service along with other cost increases impose a need for increasing
revenues. Clearly, the future financial viability of local authorities
will depend on their ability to expand their revenue base by increasing
rates and tariffs and identifying new sources of income. In th- past,
increases in rates and tariffs, to a large extent, kept pace with
increasing costs but this may become more difficult in the future due to
local pressures. The local authorities are acutely aware of this problem
and are attempting to design innovative measures to improve their financial
position. One significant step is that local authorities are attempting to
recover a higher percentage of infrastructure costs through plot sales
prices. The shift from local authority mortgage financing (including some
of the on-site infrastructure cost) to the building societies, as proposed
under the project, would substantially improve the prospects of financial
health of the cities in the future.
2/ Similar analyses are available in the Project Implementation File for
all 21 local authorities.



- 43 -
4.12     The FPP is being introduced as an instrument to assist in
improving the financial performance of local authorities. The FPP is
designed to provide details of each account operated by a local authority,
indicating the extent the account is in annual deficit (or surplus), the
status of debt servicing obligations, the requirements for increasing
sources of revenue in order to move from annual deficit to annual surplus
for each account, and the impact of any capital expenditure on revenue
generating requirements. The FPP is intended to operate over a three- to
five-year period, facilitating the shift from a deficit to a surplus
situation, while minimizing the hardship to the local authority. The FPP
consequently, serves as a planning instrument for the local authority,
whereby it can project annual targets for increases in revenue and link
these to ongoing debt servicing obligations, combined with proposed capital
development investments. The intention of the FPP is not necessarily to
preclude any capital expenditures under a deficit situation, but to make
sure that such expenditures are in the context of a plan (the FPP) that,
provided the expenditures are kept at planned levels and linked to a
program of increases in revenues, would result in the local authority
finances being in balance or surplus within the three- to five-year period.
A date for achieving this was discussed during appraisal. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that annual financial targets of all FPPs would
be designed to ensure that, at a minimum, on an annual basis, total
revenues for each of the principal service accounts shall be sufficient to
meet the following expenses: (i) for fiscal year 1991/92s total cash
operating expenses (excluding debt service); (ii) for fiscal year 1992/93:
the sum of total cash operating expenses and interest payments due; (iii)
for fiscal year 1993/94: the sum of total cash operating expenses and debt
service requirements; and (iv) for fiscal year 1994195: the sum of total
cash operating expenses and depreciation3 or debt service requirements,
whichever in the higher. The FPP would also enable MLGRUD to measure the
financial status of a local authority at any time and to evaluate whether
proposed submissions under the PSIP (or for other borrowings) are in line
with the targets agreed on between MLGRUD and the local authority, as
recorded in the FPP. The FPP would be modified as events dictate, and
would serve as a contract between MLGRUD and the local authority.
4.13     In order to facilitate the satisfactory completion of FPPs, it
will be necessary to ensure that the accounts of the participating local
authorities are up to date. Under the project, support for achieving this
is to be provided utilizing the technical assistance to MLGRUD, the local
authority training program, and the technical assistance earmarked
specifically for such activities as remedial accounting (see para.
2.26(ii). It was confirmed during negotiations that all past accounts
would be made current so that the accounts for FY89/90 for all the
participating local authorities could be closed by December 31, 1990 with
audits completed within nine months thereafter.
3/ or annual contribution to the capital development fund.



- 44 -
Sources of Development Funds
4.14     Central Government financial assistance to local authorities in
Zimbabwe is quite limited. There is no system of revenue sharing and there
are no subsidies from Central Government for local public services. For
capital projects, however, Government loans are made to local authorities,
primarily for general infrastructure works and for low-income housing
comprising mainly on-site infrastructure and community facilities. Funds
are earmarked during the budget cycle based on a project-by-project
evaluation by the Government. Thereafter, funds are released during the
fiscal year for those projects that have been approved. The Central
Government exercises a number of financial controls over local authorities
through MLGRUD, including approval of both budgets and the use of borrowing
powers; in the course of project appraisal, MLGRUD assesses the capacity of
local authorities to borrow the funds required for a particular project.
All borrowings by local authorities, whether from the Government or from
other non-local sources, must also be approved by MFEPD. All borrowing for
low-income housing infrastructure must now be financed through Government
loans. Loans from internal local authority sources (i.e., loans from one
special fund to another) remain under the control of the local authorities,
and are permitted so long as they comply with Government regulations.
4.15     Financial assistance to municipalities in the form of loans for
general infrastructure and for low cost housing, are controlled by MLGRUD
and MPCNH, respectively, which also consolidate the municipalities'
requests for lnan funds and serve as advocates for the municipalities in
the Central Government's budget and planning process. Requests for loans
through the GDLF and the NHF are approved in the yearly budget process of
the Central Government.
NHF
4.16     The NHF, under MPCNH, obtains its capital mainly as Government
appropriations and, occasionally (although not recently), as borrowings
from other institutions, particularly building societies and insurance
companies. TSae iHF is operated on a non-profit basis and its managers see&.
to recover only capital repayments and interest on its loans to local
authorities. The administrative costs, estimated at Z$ 51,000 per annum,
are included in the Ministry's overall administrative budget and are not
apportioned as costs chargeable to the Fund.
4.17     The current interest rate charged on the 25 year-loans made by the
NHF is 9.75Z per annum. Although, in theory, the lending rate must equal
the cost of borrowing (pooled" rate), the Fund's lending rate cannot be
adjusted without Treasury approval. In practice, the Fund has not always
passed on to its borrowers increases in its own cost of funds. As of June
30, 1988, the Fund had a deficit and the Treasury agreed to compensate the
Fund for this loss but to date no monies have been received from Treasury
against Fund losses. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
Government that the lending rates for all loans to be made under the
project through the NHF would be at levels not less than its cost of
borrowing.



- 45 -
GDLF
4.18     The main underlying source of GDLF funds is government budgetary
allocations. Local authority requests for GDLF loans are evaluated and
included in MLGRUD's budget request. Loans by the Fund to local
authorities cover periods of 20-30 years and require semi-annual repayments
of principal and interest. The interest rate, as indicated in para. 2.37,
is tied to the cost of total government borrowings and is therefore a
floating rate adjusted periodically by the Treasury. The current rate is
9.752.
B. Proiect Impact on Local Authorities and Cost Recovery
Financial Implications
4.19     During the project period, loan proceeds from the proposed Bank
loan and Central Government would be made available to each of the
borrowers to finance its respective project s.oste. The local authorities
would bear the debt burden (principal and interest) over a period of 20
years for primary infrastructure, urban services and maintenance, and
community facilities loans, and 25 years for housing infrastructure loans,
subject to a three-year grace period. The review of the financial status
of the 21 councils that was undertaken during appraisal included an
assessment of each council's ability to afford the investments being
submitted for inclusion in the project.
4.20     The projected income and expenditures show that many of the cities
would continue to have financial surpluses after meeting their debt service
obligations on all outstanding loans as of June 1988, taking into account
loans to be received under the proposed project. Ultimately, the decision
on affordability for each council will depend upon the assumptions and
targets incorporated in the FPP. In the absence of fully developed plans,
a single indicator of affordability was tentatively adopted, namely, the
annual percentage increase in recurrent costs arising from the proposed
investment, these costs comprising the financing costs (principal and
interest) and an estimate of the additional operational cost.  A target
rate of 52 was assumed as representing an acceptable rate of growth in
recurrent expenditures. During most of the project implementation period,
many of the councils could keep within that target and some would exceed
it. During the preparation of FPPs, each council will have to decide on
the range of tariff increases considered acceptable to its community.
4.21     With regard to new housing developments under the project, by the
end of the project implementation period, the towns would have recovered
through plot sales about one-thirt of the housing infrastructure
investments made under the project. The proposed project would be
substantially self-financing and thus would not impose an additional
financial burden on the towns. On the contrary, as a result of the
strengthening of local authorities' capabilities and the transfer of long-
term financing to the private sector, the project would have a positive
impact on the local authorities' cash flow.



- 46 -
Cost Recovery
4.22     The principles of cost recovery to be applied to the various
elements of the project will be based on well established and effective
cost recovery mechanisms (see Annex 24) in place In the local authorities.
Under current practice, primary infrastructure costs are all recovered
through tariffs, rates and supplementary charges; on site residential
infrastructure costs (including roads, drainage, land purchase, site
preparation, street lighting, surveying and design costs) are recovered
through plot sales; water, and sewerage and electricity reticulation costs
through tariffs, and housing construction costs are recovered through
mortgage loan payments.
4.23     Plot prices are based on actual development costs (excluding costs
recovered through tariffs and supplementary charges) in all the project
towns. A comparison of existing plot prices in the local authorities
suggests that approximately one-third of total development costs are
currently being recovered through plot sales and the remaining two-thirds
through rates and tariffs as described above. This has proven a very
effective mechanism for full cost recovery.
4.24     Historically, the municipalities have been the financiers of low-
cost housing. In the past, they generally held ownership of the housing
themselves and rented it out at cost-covering prices. Later, however, they
shifted to a policy of selling rental stock and concentrating their
resources on the construction of low-cost housing to be sold rather than
rented. In such cases, the municipalities acted as the mortgage holders
for the sale of housing on the basis of long-term loans. Under these
arrangements the municipalities are responsible for financing both the
infrastructure and construction of housing. More recently, undar the First
Urban Project, some of the municipalities have begun to shift to
alternative private sector financing arrangements that allow them to
recover their investment capital over the short term and redeploy the
resources to meet the growing demand for housing.
4.25     Under the proposed project, this trend would be extended sector-
wide to all urban areas, with the primary responsibility for financing the
construction of housing being assumed by the private sector, and the local
authorities focusing their resources and borrowings from Central Goveranent
on expanding the supply of serviced land (see para. 2.14). Also, since
housing credit woull be made available to the beneiiciary by the private
sector (i.e., building societies), the local authorities would recover
infrastructure costs attributable to plot charges up front instead of
financing these costs over the long term. The impact of such rapid
rollover of resources available to the public sector for urban housing
would result in an increase of about 302 in investment in infrastructure
(see para. 2.15 and Annex 9 for a discussion of the impact of a revolving
fund), without additional resources beiLg required from the public sector.
4.26     The project capital development costs, excluding the pilot
regional development capital fund (Z$ 11.6 million), represent about 952 of
total project costs and all of these costs would be recovered under the
project (see Table 4.1). Approximately 202 of these costs would be
recovered directly from the beneficiaries through plot sales and most of



- 47 -
the remainder directly from the beneficiaries through existing
supplementary charges (or rates) and tariffs. Costs of community
facilities, amounting to 32 of total project costs, would be recovered
indirectly through general municipal revenues. The cost of housing
finance, which includes both house construction costs and the purchase
price of plots, will be 1002 recovered through mortgage payments. The cost
of urban services and maintenance, representing 8Z of project cost, would
be recovered partly through tariffs and partly through rates. The
remaining 82 of total project costs for regional development, and
strengthening cf institutional capacities, almost all of which is to be
provided to Government on a grant basis, would be attributed to the
government budget.
Table 4.1  ga!re! ty1.r- R
Total    Plot  anafeceary      Building        Not Racover"
Tots I    Plot  b neficiary   --Ts, Ki  R te  BuiIdine  ~   (N   t Budgetary
FaDendTturs4 lte   ~cost  Sales Loan ReDaareenta (Elc  es {-e}SceT   Revenu!M  Altocatlonal
Exoenditurs Item.~i.    .ls.   u.3325  go.M1z~   Uan...msn W.ak.n   ...arwl ...  ..ALaulma...
1. Capital Devalocemnt
A.  Sites and Services  150.68 S37.67  75.S4  37.6?
B.  Coamun tn   Facilitis.  28.72                             28.72
C   Electricsty Facilities    38 76   380.
D.  Pr r infreatructure   134.83    83.71  67.41  33.71
E. Coeeputer Equipment  12.00                          12.00
Subtotal      (364. 99)  (71.38)  (181.51)  (71.38)  (12.00)  (218.72)
2. Urban Services & Maint.  80.88      40.42    40.43
3. Regional Developmnt  20.18                                            20.12
4. Institutional Developmnt  17.30                                       17.30
5. Housing Financ  4 00   -    460.00     -        -
Total  se  Cost  943.27    71.38  460.00  22n93  111.81  .900  28.72  37.43
Percent       100    a     49      23      12         1     a        4
Cumulative Percent   8     S7      s0      92        93   9U       100
TOTAL COST   1.149.47   102.31  480.00  816.78  159.24  16.12  41.09  53.93
C. Building Society Operations
4.27    The building societies were established under the Building
Societies Act of 1965. Currently, there are three building societies in
Zimbabwe: (i) The Ceatral Africa Building Society (CABS); (ii) Beverly
Building Society; and (iii) Founders Building Society. Their activities
are controlled by the Registrar of the Building Societies who makes an
annual (calendar year) report to MFEPD. Tbs building societies are very
similar to British building societies, in that, for instance, they invite
savings and other deposits, for the most part short-term, from the public
and from institutions, and lend funds on a long-term basis to finance
purchase and construction of residential and commercial property.
4.28    During the past 10-year period, the building societies have grown
steadily. A 10-year (1^'76 - 1985) consolidated balance sheet of the
building societies shows that total assets more than doubled during this
period from Z$ 381 million in 1976 to Z$ 782 million in 1986. The
composition of the combined assets of the societies for 1976, 1981, and
1986 is presented in Table 4.2.



- 48 -
Table 4.2 Comoosition of Ouilding Soclty Asset
1976                1961                  198B
Typ of Asset     Z million  X         Z1miIliIon  I        Zs million  I
Mortgage Advances
and Loans        297.6   76.1         487.4   72.1         559.8   71.7
Government and
Municipal Stocks    89.8   10.4       101.6   18.8         128.0   15.7
Bills                5.7    1.5          26.0    4.8          85.4    4.5
Demnd Deposits
and Cash           8.4    0.9          12.4    2.0          10.2    1.8
Other               34.5    9.1          28.1    4.6          58.3    6.8
Total Assets       880.8  100.0         605.8  100.0         781.7  100.0
4.29     Mortgage advances and Loans constitute by far the largest element
of the asset structure. Such lending increased 882 from Z$ 298 million in
1976 to Z$ 560 million in 1986, representing around 722 of total assets in
1986. Their approved mortgage advances alone in the year ended June 30,
1988 totaled Z$ 191 million, a 31? increase over the amount in the
preceding year and 165Z over the amount in 1984. This trend suggests that
mortgage finance may continue to expand rapidly.
4.30     Under the 1965 Act, the building societies are subject to minimum
liquidity requirements. The societies are required to maintain liquid
assets equal to 15X of liabilities. Liquid assets must be maintained only
in approved deposits, or invested in government and municipal stocks with a
maturity date of not more than six years.  Approved deposits are confined
to demand or short-term deposits with government commercial banks and
discount houses. The level of liquidity maintained by the societies has
generally been above the minimum statutory requirements.
4.31     The primary sources of funds of the building societies are
deposits and shares. Of the total resources available to the societies, as
of December 1986, 612 was from deposits (fixed and savings) and 36Z from
share capital. Perhaps the most remarkable feature of the building
societies is the extent to which they have been able to raise small savings
from the public. The total number of savings accounts in the three
societies is around 700,000 --almost one account for every 10 people--
which indicates a widespread financial awareness that is exceptional in a
developing country.
4.32     Interest rates for both borrowing and lending operations are fixed
by the Treasury ir. consultation with the Registrar of Building Societies
and the building societies themselves. The building societies currently
operate a four-tier residential mortgage interest rate structure:
Loans (ZS)                    X
Up to 12,000                  12.60
12,000 - 20,000               2.176
20,000 - 40,000               13.25
Over 40,000                   13.76



- 49 -
Lending rates for mortgages on commercial properties are presently set at
14.75X. Based on an average cost of borrowing of 102 and lending
operations at 13.7?, the societies have a-l average interest rate spread of
3.7Z which is sufficient to cover administration and overhead costs, risk,
and an allowance for net profit. The experience of the building societies
with small, high volume low-income mortgages, with proportionally high
overhead costs, has been positive. Estimaces by the building societies,
based on Urban I, is that they do slightly better than break even on these
operations, and they expect to improve on this as their computerization
exercise becomes fully operational.
4.33     In the recent past, the competitive position of the building
societies was weakened by GOZ introducing tax free post office savings
bonds which competed effectively for deposits from market sources on which
the building societies have depended. These charges were based on
deliberate Government policy, in its search for additional resources in the
capital markets, to divert funds from high cost houcing. As the building
societies have shifted their lending to low income households, Government
has mudified its policies, introducing new instruments that have enabled
the building societies to compete with the post office for deposits, but
linking this mobilization of savings to levels of low income mortgage
lending by the building societies.
4.34     Ample funds therefore should be available from the building
societies to support the project. Estimates of such funds for the years
through 1994-95 are presented in Table 4.3. As indicated in the table, low
income mortgages rose from zero in previous years to 72 of the total funds
lent in 1986/87 and this percentage rose to 15? in the following year. The
trend suggests that if the percentage for low income mortgages rises to 25Z
by 1994-95 or Z$ 69.8 million, this will be sufficient to finance the
program envisaged under the project. The projected relationship between
the requirements for mortgage finance and the availability of funds for
this purpose is shown in Table 4.4. For low income housing, more than
enough funds are expected to be available during the project period, as the
building societies have committed themselves to assigning 25? of their
total lending for this purpose from the commencement of the sector program
in 1989/90 (some Z$ 17.7 million above the requirements for Urban I and the
proposed project are t.aticipated even if building society commitments of
25Z are only achieved in FY1995). In the case of moderate income housing,
the surplus above the requirement for Urban I and the proposed project is
expected to be even greater. Notwithstanding these favorable indications,
the flow of funds from the building societies to project beneficiaries will
be carefully monitored (see paras. 2.18 and 3.20).
4.35     Clearly, the proposed project greatly expands the involvement of
the building societies in the low-income housing market. The inclusion of
the building societies brings with it an important source of long-term
financing for low-income housing, and a well established and successful
mechanism for mobilizing private savings for this purpose as an alternative
to public funds.
I'



- 50 -
Table 4.3 Finance Available from Building Societies
for Housing Mortgages
(Z$ million)
For Moderate Incomes                      For Low Incomes
Fiscal Yearl/                 Total2I                   Amount             2                 Amount               2
1986/87                       174.0                     161,8              93                  12.2               7
1987/88                       198.4                     168.6              85                  29.8             15
1988/89                       208.3                     166.6              80                  41.7             20
1989/90                       218.7                     175.0              80                  43.7             20
1990/91                       229.6                     183.7              80                  45.9             20
1991/92                       241.1                     192.9              80                  48.2             20
1992/93                       253.2                     189.9              75                  63.3             25
1993194                       265.8                     199.4              75                  66.5             25
1994/95                       279.1                     209.3              75                  69.8             25
1/ Data for 1986/87 are actual and for other years estimates;
all values are based on July 1988 prices.
2/ Total available funds increased 14Z from 1986/87 to 1987/88;
thereafter, increases are at 52 p.a.
Table 4.4  Morteap  Fundl Rruired and Available from Buildino Societies
Available      Surplus
Available     Surplus          Required Funds        Funds for     (deficit)
Funds for    (deficit)          for Moderate          Moderate    of Funds for
Reaui rd Fund. for L1_-Incme Morteaqa.      Low-Incom.  of Funds for       Income Mortgages         Income       Moderate
Number of Nortemas          Ant, Rea.   fr_nj.gj2/   w-Inem            No. of     Amount       Mortnae        Incoes
Fiscal Y3rl/8/Ur        I  Pro   Proi. Toal  (Z Million)   ZS Mill;on  (6 HMillion)   Mortgages (2  Million)  (Z6 Million)  (Z6 Million)
1986/87          1,400                   1,400      12.9          12.2       (0.7)                                     161.8
1987/88          8, iOD                 8.600       28.8          29.8        1.0                                      168.6
1988/89          6.000                  8,000       40.0          81.7        1.7                                      166.6
1989/90          S,SOD                  8.S00       44.0          48.7       (0.2)                                     175.0
1990/91          2.000       3,200      8,200       41.6          45.9        4.8             1,120      17.S          183.7          166.2
1991/92                      S.700      5.700       48.6          40.2        2.6            2,200       34.3          192.9         158.6
1992/98                      6,600      6,600       54.4          68.8        8.9            2.680       41.8          189.9          148.1
1998/94                      8,200      8.200       68.6          66.5        0.9            8,000       46.8          199.4         152.6
.994/96                      6,600      8,600       68.8          69.8        1.0            3.S00       54.6          209.3         114.7
TOTAL           17,600      82,500      60,000     401.7         421.0       19.3            12.500     195.0        1,647.2          780.2
of which
Urban II
l990/98        2,000      32,EOO     84.800      276.0         293.7       17.7           12,500      195.0          975.2         780.2
1/ Date for 1986/87 are actual and for other year. estimates; all values are based on July 1908 prices.
2/ Total available funds Increased 14S from 1986/87 to 1987/88; thereafter, increases are at 5S  p.a.
8/ Excludes 100 plot. 'or which employer, will provide housing construction finance.



- 51 -
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT
A. General Approach
5.01     The principal beneficiaries of the project will be the over three
million people living in urban areas by the end of 1995, who will benefit
from improved urban services attributable to the primary infrastructure
developments and community facilities as well as the infrastructure
maintenance support under the project. The institution-building components
of the project should benefit all even larger number of people through more
efficient governmental administration, especially at the local authority
level. In addition, approximately 500,000 urban residents (with about half
estimated to be primary occupants, and half lodgers) will be provided with
improved housing; this will be nearly one fifth of the Zimbabwe urban
population (or about two thirds of new urban residents during the 1989-1995
project period).
5.02     The approach to evaluating the economic benefits and costs of the
project component relating to housing, is as follows: First, all of the
components or subcomponents related to the provision of new housing are
identified. Second. the costs of each of those items is assembled
including (i) all costs of on-site infrastructure and house construction;
(ii) the portion of the cost of off-site infrastructure financed by the
project which are attributable to the project site; (iii) costs of design
and engineering; and (iv) maintenance costs of housing and infrastructure.
Third, the annual scbedule of future investments over the project
implementation period is estimated. Fourth, the aimual schedule of housing
units to be completed is derived. Fifth, rental values per year (benefits)
are derived for the basic owner-occupiers of the housing units and for the
tenants. Finally, the ERR is calculated based on the foregoing costs and
benefits over the estimated 30-year life of the project (see Annex 25).
B. Housing and Related Infrastructure
5.03     The data underlying the calculation of the ERR for the housing and
housing-related components are shown in Table 5.1. As indicated, the ERR
is 202 for this package of investments, which comprises about 67? of the
total project. Included in the capital costs are all of the on-site
infrastructure &nd housing construction investments and 30X of the primary
infrastructure and electricity facilities investments. As indicated in
para. 5.04, the remaining 702 of the latter investments are related to
other public services. Sensitivity tests show that if total costs were 10?
higher or benefits 102 lower than projected, the estimated ERR would not be
less than 16Z.
Table 6.1 ERR Calculation for Housing
and Related Infrastructure
(ZS million)
Costs                  Benefit: Rental Value       Net
Year    Land    Infra.   Housing  Total    Basic   Rental  Total       Benefit
1       0.1      25.1    81.6    58.6       -       -         -        - 56.6
2       0.1      86.9    ;0.4    87.8       4.0     6.5      10.5      - 76.8
8       0.1      43.6    69.8   112.8       8.1    13.0      21.1      - 91.7
4       0.1      51.7    78.8   180.6      20.2    82.4      62.6      - 77.9
5       0.1      51.7    65.0   186.8      82.4    61.9      04.2      - 62.8
6       0.1       -       -        -       40.5    64.8    106.8        106.8
7-80    0.1       -       -        -       40.6    64.8    1065.        105.8
ERR 20%



- 52 -
C. Investments in Primary Urban Infrastructure
5.04     Part of the primary infrastructure component of the project is not
directly related to housing but to commercial and industrial development
and to other public services (fire protection, hospital service, etc.).
Similarly, the project investments in community facilities (schools,
clinics, etc.) are not directly related to housing but to other public
purposes. The complex nature of the benefits to be derived from these
various investments makes it impractical to quantify them. Their
importance to the community is, of course, substantial and the need or
usefulness of the resulting urban services has been clearly established.
The project investments in facilities for non-housing purposes comprise 182
of total project cost.
D. Infrastructure Maintenance Support
5.05     The support to be given to local authorities for the improvement
of infrastructure maintenance is intended to upgrade the urban services
utilizing those basic facilities and to preserve the assets themselves.
While it is difficult to quantify the impact of the spare parts and the
replacement equipment, there is no doubt that the benefits from this
component would be substantially greater than the costs. The improved
services and service reliability should have a far reaching impact and the
prevention of premature loss of assets is clearly advantageous. This
component comprises about 102 of total project cost.
E. Assessment of Technical Assistance and Training
5.06     Institution-building is an important, though relatively low cost,
element of the project. The principal benefits from this particular
assistance will be the enhancement of technical and administrative
capabilities in the MLGRUD and indirectly in the local authorities. The
technical assistance to be provided by MLGRUD to local authorities will
lead to greater efficiency in their administration and strengthen their
capability to: evaluate development projects; (ii) practice under sound
financial management procedures; and (iii) operate and maintain urban
services with effective technical proficiency. In MLGRUD itself,
assistance will be available to enhance its capability to undertake
appraisals of proposed projects presented to the ministry by local
authorities and this support should benefit the Government in terms of
improved project design and more economic utilization of scarce investment
resources. The technical assistance under the regional development
component would support the local authorities by generating new employment
and alleviating the heavy migration to the large cities. This component
comprises less than 52 of total project costs.
F. Poverty Impact and Affordability of Housing
5.07     The rapid migration of very poor people from rural to urban areas
in recent years has resulted in heavy concentrations of the poor in cities
and they present a severe problem as they require some kind of shelter and
yet have only a limited ability to pay for even a minimal standard of
housing. Nevertheless, innovative methods of providing housing (owner-
managed house construction, provision of serviced sites by local



- 53 -
authorities and financing by building societies, redefinition of housing
standards) have brought housing within reach of many of the urban poor and
the proposed project will carry that development further.
5.08     The household poverty threshold for urban areas has been
calculated following an accepted Bank formula (poverty threshold = per
capita GNP x .35 x 1.25 x household size). On the basis of this formula,
per capita GNP of Z$ 952 and estimated household size of 5 persons, one can
derive a poverty threshold of Z$ 2,082 per year or Z$ 174 per month. Only
about 152 of the Harare high density households have incomes below Z$ 174.
The affordability calculations for the proposed project assume that the
target poor can afford to pay about 25Z of household income for housing;
accordingly, at the poverty threshold they could afford to pay 252 of
Z$ 174, or Z$ 43 per month for housing.
5.09     Household surveys conducted in the high density areas indicate
that most home-ownership units are owner occupied, with a majority of
owners renting out rooms to lodgers, usually on the basis of one family per
room rented out. Estimates based on the surveys suggest that about half
the households are lodgers and the other half home-owners. Prevailing
rents average about Z$ 40 per month per room, at or below the level
affordable to households falling under the poverty threshold.
Consequently, about half the occupants are likely to be lodgers, and all
the accommodation available to this group could be afforded by families
comprising the poorest urban households.
5.10     For the purchasers of plots under the project, it is probable that
they will be owner-occupiers and that most of them will rent out one or
more rooms. They are also likely to spend slightly more on housing-related
costs than renters because of the opportunity for equity offered by the
project; about 302 of gross income, based on earlier expenditure surveys
conducted in Zimbabwe. The building societies, which utilize 252 of gross
income as their criterion of mortgage repayment affordability, do not
include the costs of housing-related services, but do take account of
potential rental income from lodgers in determining gross income.
Consequently, the owner of a four-roomed house who rents out two rooms
would have a monthly payment obligation of Z$ 80 (Z$ 110 for the mortgage
plus Z$ 50 for services less Z$ 80 from the rental of the two rooms).
Using the assumption of willingness to spend 302 of income on housing, a
family with an income of less than Z$ 270 per month (at or below the 30th
percentile of urban income distribution in Zimbabwe) could afford to buy a
plot and build a four-roomed house.
5.11     The project would thus, in principle, provide opportunities for
shelter in which half the beneficiaries could fall below the poverty
threshold, and the remaining half would be able to afford homeownership if
they were at or below the 30th percentile of income distribution in the
urban areas. Because of widespread shortages across income groups up to
lower-middle income households, allocation criteria have been modified to
reflect shortages and unmet demand for families who cannot afford housing
currently available in the market. In terms of total demand for housing,
this project is expected to provide for approximately 702 of the
anticipated increases in the number of target (low to moderate/middle
income) households in the urban areas during the project period. The



- 54 -
incorporation of private sector financing on a sector basis is a major
factor in expanding the scale of the housing program and enables the
program to serve as a vehicle for making housing available to the urban
poor.
G. Assessment of Project Risks
5.12     One of the risks facing the project is that local authorities,
having primary responsibility for implementing most of the project, may in
some cases experience deterioration of their financial performance, thus
inhibiting their ability to effectively execute their responsibilities
under the project. This risk is mitigated by the requirement, already
initiated, to prepare and carry out FPPs in the various towns. Moreover,
technical assistance will be provided to MLGRUD under the project which
will enable the ministry to provide strengthened financial advisory
services to the local authorities. In addition, the project includes a
major training component for local authorities, which will place particular
emphasis on the financial aspects of local authority operations.
5.13     Another project risk is that the local authorities may be unable
to prepare and implement, in a timely way, capital development programs.
Their experience to date in this regard, however, has been reasonably good,
and with this function in MLGRUD and MPCNH strengthened under the project
through technical assistance, the additional support available to the
towns, should minimize the risk. Also, ample funds will be available under
the project to finance qualified consultants to assist the local
authorities in undertaking the necessary feasibility studies and
preparatory engineering design work.
5.14     A third possible risk is that the building societies will
experience limitations on their capacity to provide the necessary funds for
mortgage finance. Recent trends in the societies' ability to mobilize
savings however, has been encouraging. Moreover, in determining the
potential demand for mortgages arising out of the project, conservative
estimates of growth in building society resources were applied, well below
the actual growth demonstrated over the last three years. In addition, the
boards of all three building societies have adopted resolutions,
communicated to Government, that they will further shift their current
lending practices towards a greater share of mortgage funds being allocated
to the project (from a current level of 15Z to a minimum of 25X).



- 55 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, the following agreements were confirmed:
(a) Criteria for towns to be eligible to participate under the
project (see para. 2.03);
(b) Prior Bank comment on community facilities program and
standards (see para. 2.12);
(c) Building societies to utilize satisfactory lending criteria
(para. 2.13);
(d) Establishment of a revolving fund in each local authority
participating in the housing component of the project (see
para. 2.16);
(e)  On-lending terms of Government loan to the building societies
for the financing of the computer equipment; level of
participation of the building societies; monitoring of
capacity of building societies to mobilise sufficient savings
(see para. 2.18); and progress reporting format to be
utilized by the building societies (see para. 3.20);
(f) The role and content of the FPP, and the establishment of
November 30, 1990 as target date for completion of FPPs by
the local authorities (see para. 2.25);
(g) Terms and conditions for onlending from GDLF and NHF to the
local authorities and from GOZ to ZESA and the building
societies (see para. 2.37);
(h) Overall project coordination arrangements and staffing
structure of PCMU (see para. 3.03);
(i) Recruitment of technical assistance by December 31, 1989 to
assist MLGRUD and MPCNH (see para. 3.04);
(j) Appraisal procedures and criteria (see para. 3.06);
(k) A posteriori review by the Bank of all Project Appraisal
Summaries, except for projects estimated to cost more than
US$5.0 million, for which Project Appraisal Summaries would
be sent to the Bank for prior approval (see para. 3.07);
(1) The policy of progressive development, with the acceptable
minimum initial level of provision being one room plus
ablution facility (see para. 3.10);
(m) The schedule for recruiting key PCMU staff by December 31,
1989 (see para. 3.15);



- 56 -
(n) Procurement procedures (see para. 3.28);
(o) Auditing arrangements, schedule for preparing audited
accounts, and arrangements and scheduling of semi-annual
progress reports (see para. 3.35);
(p) Annual financial targets to be met by local authorities
(see para. 4.12); and
(q) All accounts of local authorities participating in the
project be made current so that the accounts for FY89/90 can
be closed by December 31, 1990, with audits completed within
nine months thereafter (see para. 4.13).
6.02     The completion of subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactor', to the
Bank, between Government and each of the eligible local authoriti(s
participating under the project, and between Government and ZESA and each
of three building societies respectively, would be conditions of
disbursement to each implementing agency for expenditures incurred under
the project.
Recommendations
6.03     With the assurances and agreements indicated above, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$80.0 million equivalent, on standard terms,
to Zimbabwe.



~ 57                            Annex 1
Page 1 of 1
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Criteria to be Met by Additional Local Authorities
to Participate in the Prolect
In addition to the 21 local authorities determined to be eligible
under the project, any of the remaining towns which qualify for funding
under the GDLF may participate subject to their demonstrating that they
possess the necessary managerial, technical and financial capacity to
successfully implement the proposed investment under the project.
Consequently, the following eligibility criteria, which each
council must satisfy, have been established:
(a)  the council must demonstrate a satisfactory staffing capacity
for managing the preparation and implementation of
infrastructure projects. This should be in the form of a
staffing plan, which could include reference to the technical
assistance and training support provided under the project.
The council's past record of performance would be taken into
account;
(b)  the council must demonstrate satisfactory organizational and
staffing arrangements for operating and maintaining its
services. The staffing plan mentioned in (a) above should
make reference to maintenance. Past performance with
maintenance would be taken into account;
(c) council must have submitted to MLGRUD a Financial Recovery
Plan which demonstrates that it will be able, during a period
not exceeding 5 years, to eliminate all of its accumulated
deficit, if any, and tn bring each main account into surplus.
The FPP must include an estimate of the financial impact of
the proposed investment and it must indicate the source of
funding of the additional recurrent costs that would be
occasioned by the proposed investment;
(d) the FPP must have been formally approved by the Council, and
endorsed by MLGRUD, and a written undertaking provided to
MLGRUD that the Plan will be implemented without modification
unless prior agreement is reached with the Ministry to change
the plan;
(e) the council must not be in arrears with its repayments to the
General Development Loan Fund or to the National Housing
Fund; and
(f) the council must demonstrate that within 12 months it will be
current in the submission of its financial accounts for
audit.
In addition, any proposed investments must satisfy the appraisal
criteria adopted by MLGRUD. Also, if the legal or administrative status of
the council is to be changed, a revised FPP will have to be prepared by the
council and submitted for approval by MLGRUD. The revised administrative
organization will not be in arrears of loan repayments and its investment
proposals must meet the appraisal criteria of MLGRUD.
Source: Bank Mission.



- 58 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of I
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Towns Eligible for the Program
Other
Eligible Towns       Estimated         Eligible Towns            Estimated
Reviewed By Bank       Population        Not Reviewed             Population
at Appraisal            1989           at Appraisal                1989
City Councils                           Rural Councils
Harare               973,444            Chivhu                  5,103
Bulawayo            614,052             Mvuma                   7,471
Gweru               117,105             Lalapanzi               6,995
M-utare              103,309            Mvurvi                  4,996
Glendale                9.016
Shamva                  6,851
Municipal Councils
Norton                 18,341
Kadcma                66,200            Raffingora                -
Kwekwe                70,643            Mbangura               12,525
Chegutu              29,115             Lions Den                -
Masvingo              45,469            Karoi                  12,981
Chinhoyi             36,091             Banket                  8,455
Marondera             30,068            Chiredzi               15,220
Redcliff              32,668            Mashava                24,172
Chatsworth                780
Town Councils                              Headlands                 -
Odzi                      -
Shurugwi             19,811             Nyazura                 3,710
Victoria Falls        12,040            Penhalonga              6,643
Kariba                18,381            Chimanimani             2,033
Hwange                58,171            Chipinge                9,018
Chitungwiza         256,053             Macheka                 2,950
Beatrice                1,929
Rural Councils/
Town Boards                                Plumbtree               4,737
Filabusi                  -
Bindura              27,070             Esigodini               2,214
Rusape                12,192            Beitbridge              7,909
Zvishavane           39,706             Deta                    4,419
Gwanda                 7,232            Nyamandhlova              -
Nyanga                 4,412
Total             2,573,232             Total                 178,468
Source: Bank Mission



- 59 -
AnnNx 8
ZIMBABWE                                     Page 1 of 6
MiBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projection of Housing Oemend and Supply In Zlmbabe, By Town
(Indicative)*
1i8?     1987/08  1986/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/98  1993/94
Harare Municipality
Population                 950000  1016500  1087665  1168391  1246256  1882424  1425694  1525492
Households                 135714   145214   155879   166258   177894   190846   203671   217927
Target households           67857    72607    77690    88120    88947    95178   101886   108964
Gross, growth demand                  4276     4674     4894      5287    5604      699      6416
Backlog (waiting list)      26462        0        0        0        0         0
Existing supply Urban IB                       1600     1800        0
Net. hous. demand                     4275     2774     8004      5237     5604     5996     8418
Adjusted supply                                   0     1000     2800      2500     a000     8000
Bulwayo Municipallty
Population                 526000   561760   601078   648140  6688168   786340   7878893  843035
Households                  75000    60250   6868    91878    98310   105191   112555   120434
Target households            7143     7648 J    178     8750     9a86    10018    10720    11470
Gross, growth demand                   450      482      C51      551       590      631      676
Backlog (waiting list)      8977         0        0        0        0         0
Existing supply Urban IB                 0      876      875        0
Not. hous. demand                     2868     165S     18S0     2894      8097     8814     8645
Adjusted supply                                   0      500      1800     1600     1800     2000
Gweru Municipality
Population                 100000   107000   114490   122504   181080   140266   150078   160678
Housholds                   14286    15286    1635O    17501    18720    20038    21489    22940
Target households            7148     7648     8178     8750    9368    10018    10720    11470
rosr , growth demand                   450      482      515     651        590      681      676
Backlog (waiting list)       8877        0        0        0        0         0
Existing supply
Net. hous. d em nd                     460      482      515      551       590      681      676
Adjusted supply                                   0      250      250       800      300      850
Mutare Municipality
Population                   4000    89880    96172   102904   110107   117814   126061   184886
Housnholds                  12000    12840    18789    14701    11180    16881    18009    19269
Target housoholds            6000     6420     6869     7850     7865      8415     9004     9636
Gross, growth d eand                   878      404      488      468       495      580      567
Backlog (watting list)       8000        0        0        0        0         0
Existing supply Urban IB                 0      650      060      6oo
Net. hous. demand                      878     -246     -217     -187       496     650       S87
Adjusted supply                                   0        0        0       450      460      450
1/ All projections of supply are linked to capacity to meet futur  growth  In demand.
Although there is well documented and up-to-date date information on the existing backlog
(over 100,000 units), the resources potentially avealable to the sector are sufficiently
constraining that the analysis of supply was lInked to estimated dmand only. In addition,
despite tho very large backlog, the extensive exlting housing stock has served as a rIel-
tively elastic source of temporary  cco  dation and very little squatting has occurred.



- 60 -                                       Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
iosvinso Municipality
Population                  S899M    41780    44661    47777    61121    64700    58628    62626
Households                   5571     5961    6879    6626       7898     7814    6831      8940
Target households            2780    2961      8199     8418     8952     3907     4161     4478
Gross, growth demand                   178      198      201      216      280      246      268
Backlog (waiting list)       2000        O        a        O        O        O
Existing supply                          0      175      176      176
Not. hous. demand                      176       18       26       40      230      246      268
Adjusted supply                                   O        0        0      120      120      189
Kwe Kwe Municipality
Population                  48400    61788   66418    69292   68443    67884    72836    77726
Households                   6914     7898     7916     8470     9968     96g6    10376    11193
Target households            8457     8099     8958    4285    4532       4849     5188     5561
Gross. growth demand                   218      283      249      267      286      as5      827
Backlog (waiting list)       5528        0        0        0        0        0
Existing supply                          0        a
Net. hous. demand                      218      288      249      287      286      89S      827
Adjusted supply                                   O      120      180      140      15W      16
Chinoye Municipality
Population                  410W0   48870   46941    59227    683748    695    61680   65887
Households                  5687      6287     6709     7175    7678      6215     6790     9405
Target households            2929     8184     88s5      8e8     8889    4167      4896    4708
Gross. growth demand                   185      197      211      228      242      259      277
Backlog (waiting list)       2161        0        O        a        0        O
Existing supply                        200      200      100
Net. hous. demand                      -16       -8      111      226      242      259      277
Adjustment supply                                 O       80       so       90      191      169
Marondera Municipality
Population                  8910   82100    84847    86751    39824   42977    45022    48178
Households                   4286    4686      497      5260    Se16      8011     8482    6862
Target households            2148     2298     2468     2625     2869    8g69      8216     8441
Gross. growth demand                   185      144      155      165      177      189      203
Backlog (waiting list)       260         0        a        O        O        0
Existing supply                        876      876        0
Net. hous. demand                     -240     -231      155     16       177      189      208
Adjusted supply                                   a       7        70       70       of       a



- 61 -                                         Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
Kedorn Municipality
Population                  80060    65600   91692    98008  104864   112204   120069  126468
Households                  11429    12229   18085    14000    14961    16029    17151    16852
Target households            5714    6114    6542       7600     7490    6015       6576    9176
Gross. growth demand                   ag0     a89       412      441      472      SO5      540
Backlog (waiting list)       2460        a                 0        a        0
Existing supply
Net. hous. demand                      360      s65      412      441      472     G65       640
Adjusted supply                                   O      200      220      240      280      270
Ch.gutu Municipality
Population                  24060    2660    27476    29401    81459    8601       61016   a86589
Households                   3429     3669    3925    4200    4494        4609     5145     56"
Target households            1714     1634     1983     2160     2247     2404     2578     2763
Gross. growth demand                   106     le       124      132      142      151      162
Backlog (waiting list)        678        o        0        0        0        0
Existing supply                                   0        a
Net. honas. demand                     108      116      124      182      142      151      162
Adjusted supply                                   a       60       70       70       70       60
R?delift Municipality
Population                  28060    29960    32057    34601    36702   42020   44962
Households                   4000    4260      4560     490      5243     S610    6003      6428
Target households            2000    2140      2290    24560    2622      2805     8001     3212
Gross. growth demand                   126      135      144      154      165      177      189
Backlog (waiting list)       1200        0        0        0        0        0
Existing supply                          0      400      400
Net. hous* demand                      126    -286    -265        154      165      177      189
Adjusted supply                                   a      250        0      iS0      150      1tO
Vic. Falls Town Council
Population                  15000   1690    17174    18876    19062    21036    22511    24067
Households                   2143     2298     2458     2625     2809     3005     3216    3441
Target households            1071     1146     1227     131s     1494     1503    l60      1720
Gross. growth demand                    as       72       77       63       Be       96      101
Backlog (waiting list)        260        0        0        0        0        0
Existing supply                                   0        0
Net. hous. dmand                        es       72       77       63       as       95      101
Adjusted supply                                   0       40       so       S0       50       60



- 62 -
Aumnex 3
Page 4 of 6
Kariba Town Council
Population                   1700     16190    19468    20826    22284    2s848    26512    27298
Households                    2429     25699    2780     2975      3183     3406     3046     8900
Targot households             1214     1299     1890     1488      1592     1703     1822     1950
Gross. growth demand                     77       82       88        94      100      107       115
Backlog (welting list)         444        0        0        0         0        0
Existing supply                          77       82       88        94      100      107      115
Not. hous. demand                                  0       40        Be       so       Be       6o
Aijusted supply
Shurugwl Town Council
Population                   1000    17120   ls8s    19601    20973    22441    24012    25693
Households                    2288     2446     2617     2800      2998     3206     3480    3870
Targot households             1143     1223     la8     1400      1498     1603     1716     1886
Gross. growth demand                     72       77       82        88       94      101      108
Backlog (waiting list)         800        0        0        0         0        0
Existing supply                           a        a        0
Not. hous. demand                        72       77       82        88       94     10      18
Adjusted supply                                    0       40        50       60       so       80
Chitunguiza Town Council
Population                 280000  278200   297674   318611   840807   364663   390190   417603
Households                   87143    89743    42525    45602    48687    52095    65741    59043
Target households            18571    19671    21262    22761    24848    26047    27871    29822
GOross. growth demand                  1170     1252     1840      1488    41634     1641     1756
Backlog (waiting list)        850o        o        a        0         0        0
Existing supply
Not. hous. demand                      1176     1252     1340      1483     1S5      1641     1768
Adjusted supply                                    0      600      650       700      760      800
Housing Local Board
Population                    8000    8s5e      9159     9800   10486    11220    12066      12846
Households                    1143     1228     1808     1400      1498     1603     1716     1836
Target households              671      6ll      654      700      749       801      858      918
Gross. growth demand                     88       39       41       44        47       50       64
Backlog (waiting list)         260        o        0        o         0        a
Existing supply                                    0        0
Net. hous. demand                        36       3s       41       44        47       50       54
Adjusted supply                                    0        6         0       20       20       Be



- 63 -                                Annex 3
Page 5 of 6
Mlicellaneous Councils
Popu!atlon                  100I0    10700   11449    12260    15108    14026    15007    16056
Houseolds                    1429     1529    l6e      1760     1678     2004     2144     2294
Target households             714      764      616      676     908      1002     1072     1147
Gross. growth demand                    45       48       52       66       69       68       68
Backlog (walting list)        100        0                 6 0                        0
Existing supply                          0
Not. hous. dweand                       45       46       62       S        59      6a        68
Adjusted supply                                   O0                0        a      680      500
Bindurs Council
Population                  26000   28760   28828        82     82770    85864    87618   49146
Households                   8671     8821     4089    4876    4861       6869     a6n0    5786
Target households            1786     1911    2044      2188    2341      25S0     2880    2867
Gross. growth demand                   118      120      129      188      147      156      169
Backlog (waiting list)       2100        o        0        o        0        e
Existing supply                                 180      2eo
Net. hous. deand                       118       20      -71      l88      147      158      189
Adj sted supply                                   0        0       70       80       80       80
Ruespo Council
Population                  18060   13910   14684    15926    17040    18238    19509   20875
Households                   1857     1987    2126      2275     2484     2605     2787     2982
Target households             929      994    1is3      1186     1217     1802     1894     1491
Gross. growth demand                    69       83       67       72       77       82       86
Backlog (waiting list)        400        0        0        0                          0
Existing supply
Net. hous. demand                       69       e8       67       72       77       62      68
Adjusted supply                                   0       a0       40       40       40       40
Inyanga Council
Population                   2000     2140     2290     2460    2622      2605     8001     8212
Households                    288      306      827     a80       875      401      429      459
Target households             148      163      164      176      187      200      214      229
Gross. growth demand                     9       16       10       11       12       is       14
Backlog (waiting list)        240        0        0        0        0        0        0
Existing supply                          0        0        0
Not. hous. demand                        9       10       16       11       12       13       14
Adjusted supply                                   6        O       20       80        0        0



-64-                               Annex 3
Page 6 of 6
Guada Council
A
Population                   900    9689    logo4   11025    11797    12628    18507    14462
Households                   1266     1870     1472     1656     1698    l69      1980     2866
Target households             648      668      738      786      648 492           965     1032
Gross. growth d emnd                    41       48       46       so       5s       67       61
Backlog (waiting list)       6Gm         0        0        0        O        O
Existing supply                                 109      19a
Net. hous. d ma nd                      41      -57      -64       so       58       57       61
Adjusted supply                                   0       69       70       70       70       70
Zvishovane Council
Population                  88999    88al    87782    49426   48268   46264   49524    62991
Households                   4714     5044     5897     6775     6179    6812      7075     7670
Target households            2857    2622      2699    286       896     8896     8657     8786
Gross. growth demand                   149      169      179      182      196      209      223
Backlog (waiting list)       129         0        0        0        e        o
Existing supply                                   0        a
Net. hous. demand                      149      169      170      182      195      209      228
Adjusted supply                                   0       so       go      lee      lee      110
11851    12146   12996   195g   14679    15920
Total backlog (1967)        79465                 0        0        0        0        0        0
4676     4800      776        0        a        0
6876     7846    12221    18909   14679    16920
Net. Supply low-income *tands during              0     8420     S0    66820    6190        8670
Urban II
*Notes:
1. Rate of future growth In urban population estimated at 7X p.a.
2. Average ei" of households estimated at 7 persons.
8. Homeowners assumed to represent 995 of total households.
4. Incom  range of households demanding high-density housing Z619-6860.
5. About 50X of the total households are estimated to be target
households for high-density housing.
Source: Bank Mission estimates



TEaNICAL ASSESSMET OF REVV11EMENTS FOR PRIWA  D*RASThJCTE iN SB.rT0 TOWNS
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__--
(Indicative Program Based an Techn;cal Aseoasent)
(Zs 000)
BAS E  C o ST S                                               RO SS  Co STS
Town         Water  Sewerage Road A  OTiFnt.   Tote  IPh X          F X  Duties &  Design    Phy.   Price  TotFl FXX Dutios    Land    Pric                  ower
Dran               Base                     Taxee    A S/V   Cont.   Cont.  (Escel)              A Taxex            Cont.   TOTAL
Harare         28900   25000   20620   35127   118847    79534    39113   10047   11868    11868    81487  203864   53791    32727          1800      954  206610
Bu I ,aayo    70620    12508    2250   20424   105799   62583    43218   18054   1068O   10580   40672  167631   87714   28605                 -        -   167631
it,atre        2540    720        600    1710   12068    7927        4131    1670      1206    1206    4869   19839    SS47    2678            -        -    19339
COeru          17398    1710    3100    198    24136    16914    722          2698    2414    2414    5409   34372    11465    8835            -        -   34372
Mtevingo       2141     4870    8sso    2610   10871    7618    32a8          166S    1087    1087    4761   17807        4401    2727         -        -   17807
KvWeA            350    1460      750    1590    4150    28s3        1318      728      418      415    1827    687       1773    1194         -        -    6807
Chinoy;         7062    1348      832    1333    6573       355     2018      904    S67       687    2421      9109    2726      1478      250       81     9440              N
KMdam           0oo       630     350      642    2622      1849      873      408      252     252      969    396       1162      888        -        -    a396         C1    1
Chegut4         85        570     Soo    1221    3126       1769     1367      572      313     313      933    4684    188        8s57        -        -    4884         o 6
Redcl ff         636    2373      470      425    3904    2620       1288      SI1      390     390    1808    6492       1757      8ss      450      176    7118         ;             tn
Marondera       1e8s     200      S00    1770    4368    253         1772      902      437     437    1699   6837    2366    1434                      -      "6?
Vic. Falls       30    2028       675      3U1    3048    2244        804      321     305      30S    1715    63n        1134      we        10        7     S389
Kar;ba          1008      So       30      408    1493       983      S10      243      149      149     Wse     2377      689      387        -        -    2877
Shuruvie       3se        90        0      480      955      494      461      241       96      96      298    1422       628      864        -        -     1422        0
Chiitunguiu     1770    6200    1700    3312    12982    8113    4869    2214    1298    1298    6904   22482    6789    3935                  -        -   22482          d
Mangs             0       100       0      860      960      504      456      299       98      96      451     1603      635      499        -        -     1803
Bsndur4         386      820      342      690    2230    1604        634      832     224      224      902    36d8       839      s32       40       10    3638
CQanda           16S     671      100      376    1311       964      347      18s     131      131      545     2118      463      299        -        -    2118
Rospe           1300       0      225      840    2385      1471      894      448     237      237    1094   a392        1220      740        -        -    3932         Lg
Zviahavane      390       90        0      680     1160      604    s55  -   30S       116      116      348    178        781      456        -        -     1735 
N  nag          1SO      650      250      3s6     1400    1085       345      191      140     140      628    2300       464      816        -        -    2308         3
TOTALS        133056   68071   44144    76992   823063   207616   118449   61929   32808   82308   140318  627975   1S6O1    8O622    2550           1228  631768
Souree: World Bank mission and various council. 
0 (



- 66 -                     Annex 5
Page 1 of 16
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AK) REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Plans and Financial Status of Harare City Council
HARARE CITY COUNCIL
Mayor:           S. C. Tawengwa         Province:  Mashonaland Central
Deputy Mayors   J. W. Thembani         Phone:      791711
Town Clerk:     E. C. M. Kanengoni    Addresst  Box 990 Harare
Populations
1982:           658 364 (estimated)   1987:        961 471 (estimated)
General Description of City
Harare. the capital city of Zimbabwe has a strong industrial base.
It has since Independence witnessed unprecedented growth in all spheres and
such growth is beginning to put pressure on infrastructure and services.
In the movement of goods and people Harare is the international gateway
into the country while regionally it is the largest employer in all
sectors. Harare covers 543 square kilometers, is about 1500 m above sea
level, has 830 mm average annual rainfall and its land has a developed
property assessment value of over Z$1520 million.
The city's water is abstracted from four dams on the Hanyame
River, i.e. Prince Edward Dam and Henry Hallam Dam which supply the Prince
Edward Water Works and Lake McIlwaine and Lake Robertson which supply the
Morton Jaffray Water Works. The town of Chitungwiza is linked to Harare's
water supply network and draws a peak of about 30 MLD from the system. The
present average daily consumption (including Chitungwiza) is estimated at
320 MLD. Total treatment capacity is understood to be 477 MLD. The city
has 805 ML of sterage at present.
All the industrial and high density residential areas and about
202 of the low density area are sewered, with the remainder on septic
tanks.   Two sewage treatment works, Firle (72 MLD) and Crowborough (54
MLD) treat nearly all of the city's sewage.   Since both these works are
sited near rivers flowing into Lake McIlwaine, effluent discharge
regulations require tertiary treatment to prevent eutrophication of the
lake.   This is achieved by:
(a)   a modified activated sludge process which removes nitrates
and phosphates; and
(b)   irrigation of effluent to cattle pastures operated by the
city.
Surface water is drained by a separate piped system.
Harare has an excellent road network and some 150 traffic signal
sets of which 63 are computer controlled. The city offers a full range of
municipal services which include solid waste collection utilising in part
compaction vehicles.



- 67 -                     Annex 5
Page 2 of 16
Issues and problems
1.       The combined capacity of the Prince Edward Dam and Morton Jaffray
Water Works will be exceeded in approximately four years time. The lHarare
Water Supply Project', funded partly by the African Development Bank and
the European Investment Bank, is soon to be implemented. This will augment
the capacity of the Morton Jaffray Works and the associated pumps and
pipelines by an additional 225 Mlid. To maintain supplies at adequate
pressures at peak times in the city distribution system improvement are,
however, necessary. Also additional storage would be required to maintain
the average daily supply capacity presently enjoyed.
2.       The increasing quantity of sewerge entering both the Firle and
Crowborough Sewage Works will necessitate the construction of further
modified activated sludge (M.A.S.) treatment units at each installation in
the next five years.
3.       Over the past few years, increasing eutrophicaton has occurred in
the Henry Hallam and Prince Edward Dams. If studies confirm that this is
caused by residential areas to the south east of the city in the Henry
Hallam catchment (areas currently served by oxidation ponds and pit
latrines), a likely solution is to construct an outfall sewer to by-pass
the ponds, going down to a new M.A.S. sewage works which would also serve
the area on pit latrines (Epworth).
4.       As the city expands towards the north west, a new trunk water main
and new reservoir at Mount Hampden will be required. A new sewage works on
the Gwebi River at Selby with an associated outfall sewer will also be
required to serve development in this direction but this could likely be
deferred until beyond 1995 by developing land to the west as a first
,priority. These areas (e.g. Bluff Hill, Gillingham and Heaney) can be
served largely by existing infrastructure which is already planned for
augmentation, e.g., Crowborough STP expansion and the Little Marimba
outfall sewer duplication.
5.       The problem of acquiring spare parts for vehicles, plant and
equipment is affecting maintenance of essential infrastructure services
such as refuse collection and disposal and road maintenance just to mention
a few.
Housing
The first World Bank Urban Development project assisted in
financing a total of 4 822 ;erviced stands in Harare, ie. Glen Norah - 916
units, Sunningdale 1 449 units, Budiriro (MPG) 2 457 units. The take up
rate for the stands was retarded by financial limitations of the building
societies. Despite rent regulations, lodgers are paying unofficial fees of
between $25 - $30 per room per month. During the last three years 500
serviced stands were developed (in Kuwadzana) by employers for their
employees .



- 68 -                  Annex 5
Page 3 of 16
Existint Housing Stock
56 985   Houses (home ownership)
10 518   Houses (rental)
2 134   Flats
10 817   Single Units (berths - mainly hostels)
80 454   Total (as at 31 December 1987)
Domestic Charges: Rer month (August 1988)
High Density                         Low Density
Water
22.9 clcu m for the first 13 cu m   27.5 c/cu m for the first 13 cu m
30.5 cleu m for the next 27 cu m    36.5 c/cu m for the next 27 cu m
37.5 c/cu m for anything in excess  45.0 c/cu m for anything in excess
of 40 cum                         of 40 cum
Minimum charge:  $2.88               Minimum charge:   $3.58
Sewerage
$4.70 per dwelling unit              $5.05
Refuse Collection
$1.54 per bin                        $2.52
Supplementary charges
$6.78 per dwelling unit
Rates:
0.735Z on land 1975 valuations
0.5151 on improvements
Service charges
these are paid in respect of
40 year lease, flats in Glen
Norah and the charge is fixed
at $4.50 per flat.
The water charges tabled above are for standard dwelling units and
variations occur in respect of other types of accommodation. Water in
flats, hostels and other residential accommodation without individual
meters is charged at the rate of 25.6c per cu m.
Waste management charges are 75 c per month for flats. Marimba Park and
Westwood charges are $2.10 per stand.
There exists a small number of dwelling units owned by various
organisations whose supplementary charges vary from $3.25; $7.4; $7.45;
$8.20 to $9.10 per month.



- 69 -                      Annex 5
Page 4 of 16
Waiting List and Stand Provision for Housing
1984/85           1985186            1986/87
Income per month                    $500      +$500      $500    +S500
Waiting                22 781       22386      3 013     26 482  7 487
Provision               3 343             2645               2373
Availability of Land
Land in Municipal ownership which is immediately available for
residential development will provide 11 457 serviced plots (ie. Budiriro
Phases II - V, 9126; Kuwadzana North 1 986; Glen View 250; and Warren
Park D 95).   Planning is at an advanced stage for 300 middle/upper income
flats (funding for these flats is not yet assured). During 1988/89. parts
of Budiriro Phases II - V are planned to be implemented. In addition
Crowborough (369 stands), Warren I-ark A & B (610 stands) and Dzivaresekwa
infill (410 stands) are also planned for 1988/89. For further development,
land has to be acquired. The areas identified for acquisition are Bluff
Hill (1500 stands) and Gillingham (12500 stands).
Demand for Housing
The City has proposed a Three-Year Housing Development Plan, the
aim of which is to eliminate the housing backlog by 1990. According to
this Plan, council would be required to provide 18 000 serviced stands per
annum in order to meet demand for housing and also to eliminate the housing
backlog. In practical terms, taking into account financial constraints
this is unlikely to be implementable.
Important Note on Indicative Investment Programs
Primary Infrastructure
This Indicative Investment program for Primary Infrastructu-e has
been formatted based on priority technical need. Projects and/or annual
progress would be subject to detailed appraisal when annual PSIP
submissions are presented to MLGRUD. However the Investment Program as
outlined in this Annex is unlikely to be affordable from Government
viewpoint. Similarly, in many cases affordability of Town Councils to the
proposed levels of investment would require revenue increases that would
clearly be difficult to achieve and sustain.
For these reasons Local Authorities would be required to further
prioritize their programs when annual PSIP submissions are made in order to
achieve the requisite reductions. This would be achieved by omitting or
deferring subprojects. Overall project costs are based on this reduced
level of expenditure and not on the program as outlined in this technical
annex.



- 70-                      Annex 5
Page 5 of 16
Urban Services and Maintenance
Programs outlined for Urban Services and Maintenance would not be
required to be further reduced in view of their urgent nature and overall
project costs, based on the Urban Services and Maintenance Program included
in this Annex. However, in annual PSIP submissions it would still be
necessary to fully justify vehicle and equipment requirements.
Housing
Housing related infrastructure will also be subject to possible
further reductions during the annual PSIP process. The investment program
for servicing of stands under the sector loan program will generally not
exceed 60% of the total PSIP allocation in any given year, and approvals
for respective towns will be made accordingly by MPCNH at the time of PSIP
approval.
HARARE CITY COUNCIL
Summary of Financial Performance
'000
1984/85    1986/87   1987/88   1988/89
Income                185.6      283.8     198.5      236.0
Expenditure           189.8      285.0     203.1      228.5
Surplus/(Deficit)       4.2        1.2       4.6        7.5
1.       Financial Manatement
1.1      The City Treasurer's Department employs 800 staff.  The senior
staff are well qualified with 30 accountants and 12 accounting technicians
in post. There are 40 staff in the Internal Audit Section. For many years
traditionally, the council has operated an extensive and effective training
programme. However, in the last twelve months there has been a high
turnover of staff with eight qualified accountants leaving the department.
1,2      The most recent set of audited accounts is for 1985/86.  The
1986187 accounts are in the course of being finalised.
2.       Implementation Capacity
2.1      Over the five years from 1983/84 to 1987/88 the council's capital
outlay has averaged $53.0 million per annum. The proposed investment
averages $35.0 million per annum which will be within the implementation
capacity of the council.



-71-                  Annex 5
Page 6 of 16
3.       Financial Status
3.1      The council's financial position is becoming weaker each year as
illustrated by:
persistent operating deficitst
Actual 1983/84                $29.4 million
Estimate 1986/87              $10.2 million
Estimate 1987188              $11.4 million
declining reserves and provisions:
Actual 1983/84                $29.4 million
Actual 1984/85                $24.0 million
regular deficits on both the Housing Account and Water Account
averaging, in total, $4.5 million per year over the 3 years
1984/85 to 1986/87.
3.2      The accumulated deficit at 1 July 1988, has increased to $26.9
million analysed as follows:-
Smillion
Rate                       (21,0)
Water                      ( 6,0)
Waste Management           ( 1,5)
Beer                       ( 0,4)
Other                        2.0
(26,9)
3.3         In the Council's 1988/89 budget it adopted stingent measures
designed to halt the decline in its financial position. Substantial
increases in tariffs and charges were introduced across a wide range of
services: rates, 38S; supplementary charges, 38S; refuse collection, 45Z;
water, 152. Expenditure was cut both for employee costs and for repairs
and maintenance. The Council's intention in 1988/89 is to halt the decline
in the Rate Account and to generate a $4.4 million surplus in the Water
Account. However, the Rate Account will require several years before its
accumulated deficit will be eliminated.
4.          Affordability Proposed Investment
4.1         During Appraisal the following investment programme was
assessed as being technically feasible for implementation by the Councils
$000
1989190   1990/91  1991/92   1992/93   1993/94  TOTAL
Payments            24898     30583    39568      41463     37945    174457
Recurrent costs      4930      5120      6510      6670       6080     29310
Percentage increase
in expenditure on
base year 1988/89  2.9        2.9       3.6       3.6        3.2
Source: Tables 1 - 3 attached.



- 72 -                   Annex 5
Page 7 of 16
4.2         The additional recurrent costs arising from the proposed
investment were estimated and these are shown above. In 1989/90 expenditure
will increase by 2.9%, excluding the impact of inflation.
4.3         Although the increases in recurrent costs are 1lw they exclude
the existing commitment to the major water supply scheme being funded by EIB
and ADB.  Under this agreement the Council is committed to annual increases
in water charges of 5% in real terms. The additional capital investment
submitted under this project will add a further 2 to 3 percentage points to
the increased charges required each year. Depending on the 'mpact of
inflation charges may need to be increased by 152 - 201 each year until
1993194.
4.4         A major component of the programme consists of new investment in
vehicles, plant and equipment. The additional costs will fall on the Rate
Account. It is too early in the recovery process to assess the success of
the measures taken by Council to halt the decline in this account.
Therefore it is possible that the additional costs may not be affordable.
But it will require a more detailed analysis, through the preparation of a
long term recovery plan, to assess the likely impact on rates, tariffs and
charges.



- 73 -                             Annex 5
Page 8 of 16
HARARE
INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
DEBT CHARGES
TABLE 1
$000   (BASE COST)
1989/90  1990/91  1991192  1992193  1993/94   TOTAL
------------------------------------------------------
WATER SUPPLY
Payments                          4500     4000     5000     7700     6700    27900
Debt Charges - annual              490      430      540      830      720    3010
SEWERAGE
Payments                                   4200    8700      7050     5050    25000
Debt Charges - annual                       450      940      760      540     2690
ROADS & DRAINAGE
Payments                          4440     5620     6570     6495     6495    29620
Debt Charges - annual              480      610      710      700      700     3200
URBAN SERVICES
Payments                         10158     5963     7098     6218    .5700   35137
Debt Charges - annual             1850     1090     1290     1130     1040     6400
HOUSING
Payments                          5800    10800    12200    14000    14000    56800
Debt Charges - annual              630     1170    1320      l!Zl0    1510     6140
TOTAL PAYMENTS                   24898    30583    39568    41463    37945   174457
TOTAL DEBT CHARGES                3450     3750     4800     4930     4510    21440
HAR1



Annex 5
Page 9 of 16
HARARE
INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
DEBT CHARGES AND RUN14ING COSTS
TABLE 2
$000
1989190 1990/91 1991192  1992/93  1993/94  TOTAL
URBAN SERVICES
Debt Charges                    1850    1090    1290    1130    1040    6400
Running Costs                   1020      600      700     620      570    3510
HOUSING
Debt Charges                     630    1170    1320    151G    1510    6140
Running Costs                     60      110      120     140      140      570
OTHER SERVICES
Debt Charges                     970    1490    2190    2290    1960    8900
Running Costs                     90      140      200     230      180      840
------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL DEBT CHARGES              3450    3750    4800    4930    4510   21440
TOTAL RUNNING COSTS             1170      850    1020      990      890    4920
------------------------------------------------------
4620    4600    5820    5920    5400   26360
TOTAL  - Including physical
contingencies design and        4930    5120    6510    6670    6080   29310
supervision
------------------------------------------------------
HAR2



- 75 -                                        Annex 5
Page 10 of 16
HARARE
INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
ASSESSMENT OF AFFORDABILITY
TABLE 3
*000
1 Estimated Recurrent Expenditure          1988/89
excluding debt charges and
brewery/beerhall                                  184,870
2 Estimated Total Debt Charges             1988/89   88,720 *
3 Total Estimated Recurrent Expenditure   1988/8Q  168,590
4 Total Estimated Income                   1988/89
including approved Increases In
charges, excluding brewery and
beerhall                                          171,000
1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/9S 1993/94
5 Percentage Increase In Expenditure - base cost                 2.7       2.7      883      3.2      2.8
- including physical
contingencies design
and supervision          2.9      2.9       3.8      3.8      3.2
6 Percentage Increaso In Income       - base cost                2.7       2.6      8.2      3.2      2.8
- including physical
contingencies design
and supervision          2.9      2.9       8.6      3.6      3.1
a Note: estimated at 20X
HARI



PRIMARY INFRASTRUCTURE AND
MAINTEWANCE INVESTMENT rIOGRAM               TABLE   HAR 1
CITY HARARE
Of which
COMPONENT                                     LX       FX    89-90    90-91    91-92    92-93    93-94    TOTAL duties +
X        X        T        T        T        T        T              taxes
WATER SUPPLY
NB Harare Water Supply Project
Not lncleiad - currently under construction
S k DOm and associated vorka
*ssumd not constructed before 195
Tranamlealon
-Warren P Stn extensions                      so       20        O         0     1566     2566     2600    6596       429
-Hlghfi-ld-SPCA duplication main              so       20     22SO      2000     196M        6        a     6966      40P
-Warren-City pipeline                         so       20        a         O      S00     17W0    1700    38900       267
-To new housing areas (e.g. Cilinghm)         80       20        6         6     1966     196e        6     2000       132
Reeervol re
-Other for growth (200 H I tot l)             eS       20     2066      2006     1SO      2696     2069     960        627                     0c
-Pumps A Motors repiaemanta                   20       86        6         0        0      Soo      Soo     1000       206
Sub Total Water Supply                                        460       4600     640e     776      6700    23966      2011
Treatment
-Flrlo Unit 6 - MAS (1 SMLD)                  Be       20        6     am59      8966        0        0     6566      488
-Crowborough Unit 4 - MAS (18 MLD)            of       20        O        0      8600     4090        0     7600       600
-Firle Unit 6  - MAS (1 SMLD) (Comence)       66       20        6        0         6        0     166      1666       67
-Ep*orth MAS works (4 MLD) (Commence)         86       20        O         6        6     2060     2000     4000       267
Outfall sewers
-Little Marimba Duplication (crowbar)         90       10        0       700      706        6        6     1400        47
0
Reticultion
-Epworth                                      90       16        6         6     1960     1696     2666     4500       156                      0'
-Sewage pups                                  16       90        0         0        0       so       So      166        30



ROADS A DRAINAGE
-New primary roads to houcing n%reas          66       40        o        0     1600      lo0         a     2500      333
Road rehabilitation and                       6o       40     1666     26W      1600      2006    a360     16000     1333
ma ntenancs                                   S0       10      175      175      176       175      176      875       29
Drainage maintenance                          g0       10    1000       1666     100 1o0           1000    s566       167
Street lighting                               60       40      5e0     1120     1120      1120     1120    6266       835
Street lighting maintenance                   S0       40      56o     1120     1120      1120     1120    4980       684
Sub Total Roads and Drainage                                  4440     5620     6570      6496     6495    29820     3381
URBAN SERVICES A MAINTENACE
No. Item
50 Light passenger care                       so       40      200      200      200       26       200     1800      320
126 1 tonne pickup                           e6        40      625      e26      8265     82        625     3126     1606
46 2 tonne pickup                             8o       40      als      81s      31s 5     A        a3s     1575      504
3  7 tonne truck                             6e        40      786      780      780       786      780     3960     1248
20 12 tonne                                   $0       40        6      e6o      68        686 880 66       3400     1086
1 water carrier                               so       40        0      158        a         6        6      1S8       61
2 adjustable ladders                          20       86     1400        0     1480         0        0     2800     1116
1 hydraulic platform                          20       8s     1356        6        6         0        0     1360      539
a *oter tenders                               20       80        6      440      440       440        6     1320      527
8 motor pumps                                 20       s8      4B5        0        0       436      436     1386      521
1 emrgency tender                             20       80      470        0        0        0         0      470      168
3 Rapid Inter. Yoh.                           20       80      278       10      278       278        0      e44      337
60 tractors                                   so       40      700      760      786      7o        766     3500     1120
2 816 Landfill compactors                     40       es      350        0        6        0       360      700      252
20 Refuse compactor trucks                    so       40     1666     1000    low        1660     100      5600     1880
26 Container trailers                         so       40      120      120      120       120      120      60e      192
bk  motor cycles                              5o       50       40       40       40       40        40      280       70
St tonne dumpers                               o       40       85       86       85        86       85      426      138
8 Mobile compressors                          40      e6       160      16       150       150        0      6e6      216
1 Minibus                                     so       40       46        0        f        0        0        46       14
6 ambulances                                 68        40        0        0        0       105      105      210       67
1 Hose layer                                  20       68      406        0        0        0         0      406      162
1 Fom tender                                  30       70      486        0        0        0         0      486      298
1 Heavy breakdown vehicle                     so       40        0      406        0        0         0      405      130
fire engines (small)                         oo       48       6        65       65S      65        65      326      104                     03
VI
0



Fire A ambulance equipment                     20        s0      100      100       100      100      100       500      200
Spare parts                                    40        80      100      100       100      100      100       S00      180
Sub Total Services and Maintenance                             10168     5973      7078     6218     6700    35127    12181
TOTAL (Bass costs)                                             19098    19793    28348    274683   23946   118647    19047
Design & Supervision                                         1910     1979     2836      2748     2395    11885      1905
Sub Total                                                      21008    21772    31183       209    26340   130612    20952
Physical contingencies                                       1910     197S     2835      2746     2396    11865      1905
Sub ToetI                                                      22918    28762    34018    32958    28734   142376    22856
Price contingencies                                          3936     7130    13926    17428    19067    61487       9871
GRAND TOTAL                                                    26854    80882    47944    50883    47801   203884    32727
go
aQ
0



URBAN II LOW INCOME HOUSING INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(Income rang. ZS 150 - ZS 650/month)
(1988 costs Z31016)
Housing projections exclude comitted foreign
cofinanced projects such as USAID and UREAN 1A and 18
These figures are indicative only and will be reviewed
annually based on PSIP submissions. Financial allocations
will be done by the Ministry of Public Construction
and National Housing
Unit Cost  Foreign  Duties/  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  Total 5 y       Local   Foreign Duties/
Taxes                                                                                    Taxes
Harare Municipality
No. of plote (low-income)                   X        X     1000     2310     2650      S010     3010      1180
Land Aquisition                                              90      207      225       270      270       1062     1062
On-site infrastructure
Survey                     0.080        t                 80      184      200       240      246        944      897         47
Roade/drains               1.800        40       18     1801     4140     4501      6401     6400      21240    12744       0496     1867      %0
Water Supply               0.580        20        8      580     1334     1450      1740     1740       8844     5476       1889      329
Sewerage                   0.680        10               880     1564     1710     2040      2040       89024    7222       802
Electricity                0.700       80        10      701     le60     1760     2100      2100       8280     6782      2478       578
Streetlighting                0.140        30       10      140      322      350       420      420       1862     1166        498      116
Sub-Total on-site infrastructure                           3980     9164     9950    11940    11940       48964    33276      13688     2879
Eveluding electricity                                   3280     7644     8200     9840      9840      88704    27494     11210      2101
Community Facilities
(Prim. ftichools, clinic      0.900                         900     2070     2250     2700     2701       10620    10620
comm. centers)
Design/Supervision                                          316      782      790       965      956       3767     3757
Total                                                      5288    12163    13221    15s5      18865      02408    48715      13888     2679
Physicsl + Price Contingencies                             1764     6388     7569    110)9   13688        39492                                  I'd
Housing mortgage Finance                                                                                                                         co
Requtrements 1                                                      8578    19730    21448    25736       25735                                  '[I
101223   101223                         F
1 includes plot price (land, survey, roads drainage, electricity, streetlighting and                                                             0
average cost of house construction (ZS 6000 per unit) (03/10/88)



URBAN II MODERATE INCOME HOUSINC INVESTMENT PROGRAM
______________________________________________________
(Income range ZS 685 - ZS 1OW/month)
(1988 cents Zt1OOO)
Housing projections exclude comitted foreign
cofinanced projects such as USAID and UREAN 1 end 18
Thes figures are indicative only and will be reviewed
annually based on PSIP submissions. Financial allocations
will be done by the Ministry of Public Construction
and National Housing
Unit Cost  Foreign  Dutios!  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1998/94  Total t y      Local   Foreion  Dutsa/
Taxes                                                                                   Taxes
Harare Municipality
No. of plots (moderate Inc.)                               400       goo     low      12U0     1200       4788
Land Aquisition                                             so       136      18       18       180        75       7T06
On-site infrastructure
Survoy                     0.100        5                40        of      lee      120      120        470      447         24               CD
Roads/drains               2.708       40       18     1080      2488     2700     8248     8240      12690     7614       5876      990 
Water Supply               0.870       20        6      848       788      870     1044     le44       4889     8271        81       106 
Swerage                    1.020       le               408       918     1020     1224     1224       4794     4815        479
Electricity                1.958       88       le      420      946    lO5       1268     1260       4985     8465       1401      845
Streetllghting                0.218       88      1        84       189      210      262      252        987      691        296       69
Sub-Total on-sits infrastructure                          2380      2868     5965     7140     7140      27965    19792       8178     l1os
Excluding *lectrIcity                                  19680    19680    4900      S88    56880       288    1688         6698      1265
Comunity Facilities
(Prim, schools, clinic
comm. centers)
De"ign/Supervision                                         198       429      478      571      671       2237      1583       864      126
Totsl                                                     288       5918     6578    7891      791        so7    22080        0827     1729
Physical + Price Contingencies                             8?       2821      8s76    5474    9a8        19919
Housing mortgage Finance
Requirerents 1                                                     8716    16110    16789   2M147        20147
78989    78909                        00
ID I
1 Includes plot price (land, survey, roads drainage, electricity, streetlighting and                                                           F 4
aversge cost of house construction (ZS 13080 per unit) (03/10/88)
0%
Ph



- 81-
Annex A
Page 16 of 16
Zplemntatlcn schedule
Hrv    barar
- _ _pr artion A Pcrueeurnt
Imleoaftatien
July        July        July        July        July        July        July   Est.    N
FT   F1-69        P7i9-O      FV90-1    FP91-t2       FP92-93     PY93-94    Contrea       Contract
C      lf                           CLV4 CAL14A  4 at ii2   iQ  l 12   9 4P Qt Q2 9   R44 U1 2 qP Q4  ql  92 QS 4 Q1 2  LBC  Ica    Runpg
a) Waeren P. Stn exeiaon                                           _                                                        2    *  2
b) Highfield - SPCA duplication *min                                                                                        2 - -    Z-
a) Warren City pipeline                                             _                                                       2   -  2-
d) Main* to a"   iin g _o   arma                                                                                       a    0   zeSOO-zSoo
.) Reurvoira for.rg.t                               - _  _ _                                                                0 _ _1
f) Pum. A aotre relpcI    nta                                                           -      __ 1    1 I>Z1000
l                                                               *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3D
Sewerag:e
a) Firl STP unit i "AS plant                           _                                                               0    2
b) Firle STP unit   NOS plant                                                                                               2   Al I Z1 000
a) Croaborough STP unit 4 HMS plant                                _ _  _ _            _          __0    2
d) RpuortISTP no PAS pl nt                                                     __                                     0    2
a) Little Nbriaba Outfall  eower                                _                                                      2    0
f)  -e,orth ean eaerose                                                _      _ _                                           0
a) Ile-gs  puw ._                                                                                                      0    2
RhAde and Dainage:
a) thin road  to Iw ing arna_                                                                                          2    0
b) Rad rdabilitation                               _5   0
c) Drainage    o A rehab.                           _          _   _                                                   5    0
d) Stretlighting ip.. A mint.                      _5   0
Urban Services & Maintenance:
a) Vehicle and *apipant                                                                                               is _  _   _ __   15   10
Residential Infrastructure:
a) on-ite intfratructure                                _      _        _         - _   _          _       -          S1.10
51   87---



- 82 -                    Annex 6
Page 1 of 13
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Plans and Financial Status of Gweru City Council
GWERU CITY COUNCIL
Mayor        s R. Paradza                    Midlands Province
Dep Mayor   : F. Chigwira                    Phone   : 154-2151
Town Clerk  : G. Nemachena                   Address : Box 278, Gweru
Consulting engineers: John Burrow & Partners (Zimbabwe)
Population:
1982  :84,000                                1988: 100,000
General Description of Town:
Gweru has a strong industrial base and serves larger industries
such as Bata, Zimbabwe Alloys, Kariba Batteries etc. These industries are
expanding and heavy industrial sites with railway sidings are no longer
available. Gweru functions also as the Capital of Midlands Province.
The City is supplied with water from 4 dams yielding over 70,000 cu
m/day. The main water treatment plant (WTP) at Gwenoro has a nominal
capacity of 32 MLD. About 28 MLD on average is delivered to the city of
which about 302 is supplied to industry. Treated water is stored in 7
reservoirs (providing 48 hours supply capacities) at Gweru Kopje from where
it gravitates to the supply systems. All consumers are metered and a flat
rate tariff is applied. Sewage is discharged to Christmas Gift STP
(Capacity 18,200 cu m/day); to pond systems (1 to 4) which take Mkoba South
housing area, and to pond system 5 which takes Mkoba North. City roads are
generally wide, bitumenized end in good condition. Housing area .oads are
generally unpaved except for main transport routes. The city centre is
presently without a completed surface water drainage system and is prone to
flooding in heavy storms. Of the Council's fleet of about 100 vehicles for
S'WM and highway maintenance about 502 are not operational due to lack of
spare parts. Many are reaching the end of their useful lives.
Issues, Problems and Proposed Responses
Infrastructure and maintenance
1.       The Council has embarked on phase 2 of the Gwenoro WTP development
to increase capacity from 50,000 cu m/d to 60,000 cu m/d but lacks funds to
complete the phase as well as Phase 1 (40,000 cu m/day to 50,000). A
storage reservoir and parts of the 35 km A.C and steel third transmission
pipeline are completed. It would be important to complete Phases 1 and 2 as
a matter of priority as considerable investment in the scheme has already
been made and the lack of adequate supply is becoming a serious problem in
the city. Currently only about 28 MLD is able to be delivered to the city
approximating to an average of about 150 lphd assuming about 252 losses. A
third phase of the scheme (60,000 cu m/day to 75 cu m/day) has also been



- 83 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 13
proposed but with completion of phase 2 and if consideration is given to a
conservation program (reduction of losses and progressive tariffs) adeq)ate
supplies should be available beyond 1995 and phase 3 can thus be
correspondingly deferred.
2.       Sewerage development envisages a new STP at Cambridgeshire Farm
(adjacent to Council Farm) and abandonment of remaining ponds in use at
Pondsets 1 to 4 site due to the proximity to the expanding high density
residential area. A pumping station is already constructed to discharge
sewage to pondset 5 as is a new gravity trunk sewer from pondoet 5 to the
proposed new STP site.   Feasibility studies have indicated that
pretreatment (anaerobic) ponds and biofiltration is the optimum treatment
solution for the particular site and effluent is to be used to irrigate the
Council's farm.
The Christmas Gift STP (serving a different catchment area) is at
present only about 70% utilised. Sewers in the older residential areas of
the town suffer periodic failure and an upgrading/repair program is
required.
3.       To begin to address periodic flooding problems in the CBD the
Council consider an effective stormdrainage system is necessary. Funding
has been allocated although feasibility of the scheme needs to be reviewed.
4.       The level of outshedding of vehicles is becoming critical and spare
parts and replacement vehicles are necessary it service levels (eg. refuse
collection frequency) and general city maintenance are not to deteriorate
further.
Housirni
High density hous4ng is provided in chree major areas, MKOBA SANKA
and in LOWER GWERU. About 502 of the rental housing stock has been
converted into home ownership (December 1987). A masterplan is under
preparation and UDC has been requested to assist with this. A draft report
is expected to be available September 1989. In the Mkoba area, land is
still available for about 3500 stands. Further development of high density
housing will take place in the Senka Suburb. Currently, the Building
Society CABS is constructing 551 houses with the assistance of contractors.
The remaining land areas in the Senka Suburb have not yet been acquired for
future housing development. The Senka .trea is well served with bulk
infrastructure services. Lodgers pay cirrently $30-$60 a room per month.
The council rent out shops and workshops in small commercial areas in
various suburbs.
The housing program for the years 1989194 is estimated to require
1,450 low-income stands and 490 moderate-income stands.



- 84 -                  Annex 6
Page 3 of 13
The present availability of land for housing development is:
Mkoba Village 17   150 surveyed and  partial serviced stands available
(no roads)
Mkoba Village 12    52 surveyed and serviced stands available
284  unsurveyed  and   unserviced  stands  with  an
approved layout
Nkoba Village 15   +1-554 stands planned (Physical Planning Approved)
Mkoba Village 18   +J-244 stands planned (Physical Planning Approved)
Mkoba Village 19     1585 stands planned (Physical Planning Approved)
Mkoba Village 20       31 stands not planned yet
Further growth will take place in the Senka area.
Existing Housing Stock (December 1987)
12855     houses in Mkoba
890     houses in Senka
1720     houses in Lower Gweru area
2500     stands in low density residential area.
Domestic Charges (August 1988)
All charges, which were increased during July - August 1988, are as
follows:
High Density                              Low Density
Rates: 1986 valuations
1,51 on land
0.56Z on improvements
Domestic Charges; per month (September 1988)
Water         :$5.09 + 0.31Jcu m          $7.00 + 0.31cu m
Sewerage      :$4.24                      $7.00
Refuse col    :$3.50                      $4.50
Supple ch     *$5.87-$18.72 (depending on number of rooms)
Service ch:
Rental charges: $11.45 (2 bedroomed house) - $24.75 (4 bedroomed
house) per  month.    Recent  constructed  four  roomed home ownership
houses are $68-105/month (July 1987).
Waiting List and Stand Provision for Housings
1984185         1985/86         1986/87          1987/88
<$500   +$500   <$500   +$500   <$500   +$500   <$500   +$500
Waiting       5950    482      6694    543    10300    689       NR      NR
Provision      0      300       0      435     577       -     230       200



- 85 -                  Annex 6
Page 4 of 13
Remarkss
New rates became effective 1 July, 1988.   New rates 1 August, 1988.  Civil
engineering costs for a 312 sq m plot are for roads and stormwater drainage
$692, water $398, sewerage $645, towerlighting $67 and electricity $500
(July 87).
Important Note on Indicative Investment Programs
Primary Infrastructure
This Indicative Investment program for Primary Infrastructure has
been formatted based on priority technical need. Projects and/or annual
progress would be subject to detailed appraisal when annual PSIP
sthmissions are presented to MLGRUD. However the Investment Program as
outlined in this Annex is unlikely to be affordable from Government
viewpoint. Similarly, in many cases affordability of Town Councils to the
proposed levels of investment would require revenue increases that would
clearly be difficult to achieve and sustain.
For these reasons Local Authorities would be required to further
prioritize their programs when annual PSIP submissions are made in order to
achieve the requisite reductions.   This would be achieved by omitting or
deferring subprojects. Overall project costs are based on this reduced
level of expenditure and not on the program as outlined in this technical
annex.
Urban Services and Maintenance
Programs outlined for Urban Services and Maintenance would not be
required to be further reduced in view of their urgent nature and overall
project costs are based on the Urban Services and Maintenance Program
included in this Annex. However in annual PSIP submissions it would still
be necessary to fully justify vehicle and equipment requirements.
Housint
Housing related infrastructure will also be subject to possible
further reductions during the annual PSIP process. The investment program
for servicing of stands under the sector loan program will generally not
exceed 60S of the total PSIP allocation in any given year, and approvals
for respective towns will be made accordingly by MPCNH at the time of the
PSIP.



- 86 -                 Annex 6
Page 5 of 13
CITY OF GWER1i
Summary of Financial Performance
'000
1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88
Income               18520      21863      25184       24370
Expenditure          19020      25073       26477      23680
Surplus/ (Deficit)    (500)     (3210)      (1293)     690
1.       Financial Manaaement
1.1      The treasury  consists  of  105  staff  and  the  senior staff are
qualified. The financial accounts are up to date and the 1986/87
accounts have been audited.
2.       Implementation Capacity
The Council spent $4.9 million on new investment in 1986/87.   The
indicative estimates of investment under the Bank project averages
$6.0 million each year over five years. The council is confident
that a programme of this size is within its implementation
capacity.
3.       Financial Status
3.1     T'he Council's financial position is weak  and becoming worse.   It
earned a deficit in 1986/87 in excess of $1.2 million which
increased the accumulated deficit at 30 June 1987 to $8.3 million.
The  position  deteriorated   further   during  1987/88 with  the
accumulated deficit reaching $9.0 million at 30 June 1988. The
deficit is analysed as follows:
$ million
Water                    (4.49)
Incorporated Areas       (3.01)
Welfare                  (3.57)
Health                   (0.70)
Refuse                   (0.19)
Rates                     2.30
Other                     0.66
(9.00)
3.2      In 1988/89 the Council has  implemented substantial increases in a
wide range of charges in order to halt the financial decline.
However the Council continues to be arrears with its repayments of
loans to Government. The arrears are in excess of $3.0 million.



- 87 -                   Annex 6
Page 6 of 13
4.       Affordability of ProDosed Investment
4.1      During Appraisal the  following  investment programme was assessed
as being technically feasible for the Council to implements
$000
1989190 1990/91 1991192 1992193 1993194 TOTAL
Payments 7309     9271      5834     51:4     3047      30575
Recurrent costs   1390      1360      850       740      480      4820
Percentage increase
in expenditure on
base year 1988/89  5.9      5.4      3.2       2.7      1.7
Source:  Tables 1 - 3 attached.
4.2      The additional  recurrent  cost  arising  from  the programme were
estimated and these are  shown  above.    In 1989/90 the recurrent
expenditure will increase by 5.9X.
4.3      The proposed investment will  impose  a considerable burden on the
Council  at  a  time  when   it will  need  to  increase  charges
substantially as part  of  its  financial  recovery  plan.   It is
questionable whether the Council will be able to afford these
extra costs given its need to pay the arrears of loans to
Government and to eliminate a $9.0 million deficit.
4.4      The Council is revising its  financial recovery plan following the
recent appraisal and, in doing so, priorities will need to be
reconsidered in order to match spending with revenues.



- 88 -                             Annex 6
Yiage Tof 13
GWERU
INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
DEBT CHARGES
TABLE 1
$000   (BASE COST)
1989190  1990/91  1991192  1992/93  1993/94   TOTAL
------------------------------------------------------
WATER SUPPLY
Payments                          4764     5450     3420     3149     I610    17393
Debt Charges - annual              710      590      370      340       60     2070
SEWERAGE
Payments                           150     1255      305                       1710
Debt Charges - annual               20      140       30                        190
ROADS & DRAINAGE
Payments                           500      600      600      700      700     3100
Debt Charges - annual               50       60       60       80       80      330
URBAN SERVICES
Payments                          1053     1124      368       90      366     3001
Debt Charges - annual              190      120       70       20       70       470
HOUSING
Payments                           842      842     1141     1175     1371     5371
Debt Charges - annual               90       90      120      130      150      580
TOTAL PAYMENTS                    7309     9271     5834     5114     3047    30575
TOTAL DEBT CHARGES                1060     1000      650      570      360     3640
GWERU1



- 89 -                        Annex 6
Page 8 of 13
GWERU
INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
DEBT CHARGES AND RUNNING COSTS
TABLE 2
$000
1989/90  1990/91 1991192  1992/93  1993/94  TOTAL
------------------------------------------------------
URBAN SERVICES
Debt Charges                      190     120       70       20      70      470
Running Costs                     100     110       40       10      40      300
HOUSING
Debt Charges                       90      90      120      130      150     580
Running Costs                      10      10       10       10       10      50
OTHER SERVICES
Debt Charges                      780     790      460      420      140    2590
Running Costs                      53      70       40       40      10      210
------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL DEBT CHARGES               1060    1000      650      570     360    3640
TOTAL RUNNING COSTS               160     190       90       60      60      560
1220    1190      740      630     420    4200
TOTAL  - Including physical
contingencies design and        1390    1360       850      740     480    4820
supervision
------------------------------------------------------
GWERU2



- 90 -                                        Annex  6
P.age 9 of 13
OWERU
INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
ASSESSMENT OF AFFORDABILITY
TABLE 8
8000
1 Estimated Recurrent Expenditure          1988/89
excluding debt charges and
brewery/beerhall                                  19,700
2 Estimated Total Debt Charges             1988/89   8,980  *
3 Total Estimated Recurrent Expenditure   1988/89  26,880  s
=
4 Total Estimated Income                   1988/89
Including approv,J increases in
charges, excluding brewery and
beerhell                                          24,870
=
1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94
' Percentage Increase In Exponditure - base cost                 5.1      4.8       2.8      2.3      1.5
- Including physical
contingencies design
and supervision          5.9      6.4       3.2      2.7      1.7
8 Percentage Increase In Income       - base cost                5.0       4.8      2.8      2.3      1.6
- Including phytiical
contingencies design
and supervision          5.7      6.8       5.2      2.8      1.7
*  Note:  *dusted downwards from Council approved estimates following PSIP allocation.  Approximately
*916,000 reduction. Income not adjusted to reflect reduced capital Investment programme.
OWERIIS



PRIMARY INFRASTRUCTURE ANtD
C:tAINTEA4ANCE INVESTMENT PROGRAM             TABLE : CW 1.1
CITY: OWEROUwic
Of which
COMPONENT                                     LX        FX   89-90    90-91    91-92    92-93    98-94    TOTAL duties +
3 S               T        T        T        T         T             taxes
WATER SUPPLY
C9ENORO U.S. SCHEME - PHASE 1
*)Urtng to 60 MLD
)   P.STN. pitnt                           70        80     2127        0        0        0         0     2127      213
,rks  Usprating     trr  stc.)            80      20        0     1688        0        0         0     1636      109
)liters,           so       20        0      150        0         0        0      150       10
-ir  Cin c At  Rt                          80        20        0     2855        0        0         0     2365      157
-24-85KM  t of abticat,                    70        8o     1500        0        0        0        0      1500 50
-24-8SK tool laying                        s0        20     1187      947        0        0        0      2084      442
GUEN"10 9.S. SCHEME - PHASE 2
a) Uprating to 60 MID                         70        s0        0        0     1404        0         0     1404      140
:CIvt4 Works                              80       20        0        0        0     2419         0     2419      161
_Adiltional p,ape                          20       s0         0        0     166O        0        0      15        442
c  DISTRmfflo"                     0~~0     20        0      860       100      100        0      560       87
CItY WIDE 01813BTIO
60       20        0        0      260       150      100      50o       84
Eastern Suburb.                            80        20        0        0        0      280       160      890       26
Mtp.Ascot, Mambo                        80       20        0        0         0      250      150      400        27
o0       20        0        0        0        0       200      200       1a
Subtotal Water Supply                                          4764     5450     8420     8149       610    17398     1658
* Conbridg   i    o 
- Plant             S0                               70      150        0        0        0         0      1S0       85
Civil Works                               80        20        0      060        0        0         C      950       68
b) SeersR a blitatton                         90        10        0      806      805        0         0      609       20
Subtotal Sworerg                                                10     1266      a06        0         0     1710      116
ROADS AKD DRAINAGE
a)CUD etonrudaimag scem0                              20      250      250       250      250      250      1250       83
b) Road construltt9on 5 rehabilltation        60        40      250      3so      850      460       450     %860      247
Subtotel Roada  Dralnge                                        500      600      600      700       700     8100      880
URBAN SERVICES & MAINTENANCE
a No. I tonn         Ups                    s600      40       75       75        0         0        0      150       46
2No. 7 tonnoe   p                           6o        40      180      180        0        0         0      260       68
1 No. 7 tonne  slot4d                                40       5S         0        0        0         0       6C       1S
2 No.2 tonn-epkup                          e60        40        0       8        85        0         0       70       22
1No. aabulaocee Csi)                      60        40       85       85        0        0         0       70       22
IN.   ml   iet~60                                    40      86         0        0        0         0       65       21
2 Nomll care                                so        40       20       20        0        0         0       40       18
4 No. tratore                               60        40       7O       70       70        TO        0      280       90
rcyal"                    so~~5    s0        6        0        0         0        0        6        8
2 No.  tr yers                              40        so      100      100        0         0        0      200       46
1 No  grdr                                  40        60      285        0        0        0         0      235       56
Ot; ervsui CleosAquip.ent                   so        40        0        0      100       100      100      800       96
Spareerta                                   40        6o      100       25       26        26       25      200       72
Subtotal Urban Services A Maintenance                           698      490      180       190      126     1983      592
Total (Base Corte)                                             6807     7795     465C    4044       1485    24186     2693
Desion A Supervision                                          681      76K      460       404      144     2414      269
Subtotal                                                       6988     S657     5011     444S      1679    26650     2962
Physical Contingencies                                        631      780      456       A04      144     2414      269
Subtotal                                                       7566     9354     6468    4863       1722    28963     8232
Price Contingencies                                          1464     8049     1698      2746     1166    10842     11S4
GRAND TOTAL                                                    9062    12403     7864      7598     2888    39806     4386



URBAN II LOW INCOME HOUSING INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(Income rang. Zs 160 - Zs 060/month)
(18 cose ts 261000)
Housing proe3cttons exclude committed foreign
cot inanoed projOcts such as USAIL and URBAN lA and 18.
Thoe  figure  are lndicative onlr and sill be yarly
reviewed based on PSIP *4welsoions. Flnor:lol allocations
will be done by tho Minietry of Pubile Construction
and Natib .l Housing.
Unit :ost  Foreign Duties/  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1998/94  Total S y         Local   Foreign D0't:esf
Taxes                                                                                     Taxee
Oyeru Municipelity
No. of piet  (low-income)                   3                2 260    20       800       800      850        1450
Land Acquisition                                              28       28       27        27       32         181      131
On-site inf rstructure
Survey                      0.080        6                 20       20       24        24       28        116       110         6
Peads/draina                0.7T0       40       18       198      198      281       281      270       1117       670       447        87
thEter Supply              0.440        20        6       110      110      182       189      154        086       610       128        81
Sewerge                     0.710       10                176      176      218       218      249       1080       927       108
Electricity                0.700        80       10       175      175      210       210      245       1015       711       806        71
Streetlightlng                 0.090       80       10        28       28       27        27       82         181       91         89        9
Sub-Total on-site lnfrostructur89e eo                                 66       687       887      977        4046     8019      1027       198
Excluding electricity                                     528      628      627       62'      782       8081      2808       722       127
Community Facillties
(Prim. cehools* clinic        0.700                         175       176      210      210       246       1015      1016
coren. entOrs)
Design/Supervision                                            s6       SO       67        67       76         824      824
TOtWl                                                        961      9S1     1141      1141     1881        6616     4468       1027      106
Physlcl * Price Contl_gecies                               817      421      662       792    .l48         8490
Housing mortga90 Flnnce
Requiremnts 1                                                        1669     18609    2248      2248        2617
10641    10641
I includes plot price (land, survey, rods drainage, electricity, strestlighting, and
everage cost of hous. construction (ZS 6000 per unit) (08/10/66).
Annex 17
Paon 2



UR8AN II MODERATE XNC0bA. HOUSING INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(Incme range ZS 8S0 - Zs 1000/month)
(1988 costo Zl1000)
Housing projectiong exclude comitted foreign
cofinanced projects such as USAID and URBAN 1e and 18.
Thes figures are indicative only and will be yearly
reviewed based on PSIP submissions. Financial allocations
will be done by the Ministry of Pvolic Construction
and National Housing.
Unit Cost Foreign Duties/  1969/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/98  1993/94  Total 5 y         Local   Forelgn  Juties/
Taxes                                                                                    Texan
Coeru Municipolity
No. of plot. (moderate-income)              %        X      100       100      120      120       140        560
Land Aquisition                                              1S        15       16       16       21          87       67
On-site infrastructure
Survey                     0.100         5                10        10       12       12        14         S8       55          3
Roads/draina                1.500       40       18      110       1t6      189      189       102        670      402        268       52
Water Supply               0.660        20        6       6o       66        79       79       92        B83       306         77       18
. eweraga                  1.068        10               107      107       128      128      149         616      56e        62
Electricity                 1.050       so       10      106       105      126      126       147        609      426        163       48
Streetlighting                0.135        30       10       14        14       16       16        19         79       55         23        5
Sub-Total on-sit. infrastructure                            417      417       500      50       593        2416     1600       616       119
Excluding electricity                                    312       312      374      874      480        1807     1374       483        TO
Community Facilities
(Prim, schools, clinic
comm. centers)
Design/Superv0lon                                            83        33       40       40        47        198      144         49        9
Tot l                                                       465      465    655         665      651        2696     2031        665      128
Physical + Price Contingneles                               1S3       206      819      987       661       1786
Housing mortgage Finance
Requ;rements 1                                                       1514     1614     1816     1616        2119     89
8779     8779                      r
1 includes plot price (land, survey, roads drainage, electricity, streetilghting and
average cost of house construction (ZS 6000 per unit) (03/10/88)                                                                             0



94                                                      Annex 6
Page 13 of 13
PRDIRY INASTlV1Si
mpI plntation Schedule
CmY   Oe.ru
- _ Preparation 4 Procurement
jm1e_ntatian
July        July        July         July        July        July         July   Et.    NTES
_________________ -________-_-------v------------ -- - - ------------ --------- ----               -T----T -----~------- ~~~~- ------------
FT '    ae-a    I FYSQ-9o     FOe-91       F191-22     FY92-93      FY9O-94    Contracts    Ccntraet
CSUONT                               CAL Qtrs QS 04 Q1 Q2  SQ  Q1Q Q2 ____4_Ql        QS  4   iQ QS   4 fi; i2 QS 44 Q1  2   LS3C  IC1  Range
-- - ----  - -- - -- - ----                  ----_---- ---                                -- - ------ ----r----  ------ ---- -----   ------
Water Supply:                                                                                              i21 0oo
-Phase 1 - (nenoro WS Schee Compltin                                                                                                . 1
a) Stoel pipeline Ka 24 to SB                bTib               _-                                                       2    1     lOO-280
b) Pump atAw  - plant                                                                                                    0    1   * 27
- civil_                                                                                                   1    0   Z11SO-M00O
c) AC pipeline  14 - 20                                                                                                  1    1    * 2
d) ITP upgrading (filters, etc.) to 50 egil                                                                              1    0    2Z81000
-Phe 2 - Saenoro WS Scheme                                                                                                             I 
a) VIP exteneion to 60 egld - plant                           _ _                                                        0    2
-civile      -      -I-   -                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    1
b) Dit. upgrading - ilkobo                                                                                               3 _  i  -  All Z 1000
-                                                             'I   - __ CED                                  3  0
- Estern euburbs                                                    -- _      _    _                 2    0
C       - "tpa. Ascot. Mambo                                                                                  2    0
*      -Songs S                                               in-                                            1    0
Semerae:e
Cambridgehire farm new STP 5-6 amId                                          I_                                               1
Sever rehab - Wtepa. Aecot Mambo. Song-                 _                                                                2    0
Roads A Drainage: 
City centre *tormdrminag  schem                         _                                                                5    0
Read cmtruction & rhebilitation                         __                              _                             DL/5    0
Urban Services A litntenmnc
Procurement of vehicles a equipment                                                                                      3 _   _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _    _  2    .L
Re"identitl Infreetructure:
On-site infratructure                                  _ _ _             _   _   _ _         _           - -                  5        Labor
Annex 17
Page    of



- 95 -                        Annex 7
Page 1 of 12
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Plans and Financial Status of Bindura Town Board
BINDURA TOWN COUNCIL
Chairman Rural Council    : T.G. Cotnes       Province: Mashonaland Central
Chariman Townboard         : E. Chikerema    Phone   : 6952/6430
Executive off              : A.N. Makoni      Address : Box 15
Consulting engineers: Stewart & Scott (water), Interconsult (sewage)
Popvlation   1982:  22,000                    1987:   26,000 (estimated)
General Description of Town:
Biat.ura functions as the capital of the province of Mashonaland
Central. While the emphasis of the development of the town has been on the
nearby Nickel Mine, during recent years agricultural support activities
have now become well established. The Cotton Marketing Board has provided
a Gin. CMD and DDF have established depots in Bindura. Bindura is managed
by a Town Board with officials serving both Rural Council and the Town
Board. Consideration is being given to Bindura Rural Council becoming a
Municipality. Industrial land served by railways is available.
Potable water is supplied from a well maintained WTP of 9120 cu.m
per day (24 hours) capacity sited near the Mazowe river where raw water is
abstracted via a dam. Water is pumped to storage reservoirs (10,000 cu m
capacity) from where it gravitates to serve the town via three transmission
pipelines of 375 mm, 250 mm and 150 mnm diameters. Wastewater is disposed
of either by septic tanks in low density and industrial areas with middle
and high density areas to the north and south of the town served by
oxidation ponds. The ponds in the South have recently been constructed and
effluent is discharged to farms for irrigation. Garbage collection and
disposal and road maintenance functions are also carried out by the
Council.
Issues, Problems and Proposed Responses
Infrastructure and maintenance:
1.       Whereas treatment and main storage of water appear adequate for
the near term, reticulation has been carried out in an ad-hoc manner and
the system could be rationalised giving greater efficiency.
2.       Proposed housing development at Wild Dog Valley will necessitate
extension to sewage pond arrangements and, in the longer term, construction
of new ponds to the south east. The development will necessitate the
acquisition of some 195 hectares of land in total (20ha for roads, 175ha
for Chiwaridza phase II). For phase III (between phase II and roads) a
further 225ha would be required. It would be important to commence
acquisition procedures as soon as possible if implementation of the housing
i nnt tnf  ii 1^V 



- 96 -                     Annex 7
Page 2 of 12
3.       The Council carries out most of its own maintenance on its
vehicles and plant, about 35 items, at its 2 workshops. Additional
equipment at workshops would assist in maintenance activities.
4.       At present the Council fire engine is non-operational.
Housinz
As a result of the decentralisation of Central Government services
there is a high demand for rental houses. Lodgers pay at the moment
Z$12/month per room. The immediate supply of high density housing will
take place in a new area, Wild Dog Valley which has already been acquired.
A new township for this area, Chiwaridzo, has been planned by Physical
Planning which provides 65 medium density plots, and 600 high density
plots. Future development is expected to take place south of Chivaridzo.
USAID has earmarked finances to service 300 high density plots in the
Chiwaridzo Area, during 1987-89. The remaining plots in the Chiwaridzo
area have been allocated for private development. Plots for the 1989/90
programme are planned to be located on the area south of Chiwaridzo area
which is still to be acquired. The HLGL has been informed about thc land
acquisition programme and negotiations with the land owners for 425ha
should start shortly.
Existina HousinR Stock (March 1988):
1300 houses in Chipadzi
Domestic Charges (August 1988):
High density                   Low Density
Rates (1982 Valuation)
2.5% on land value
4.5% on improvements
Waters        $0.42 cu m                   $6.30 + $0,35cu m
Sewerage:     Incl in service charge      only septic tank services
Refuse col:   Incl in service charge       $8.00
Supple ch:    Incl in service charge
Service ch:   $11,93 (single), $11,93 (married)
Rental Charges: single quarter $8, married quarters $8-$35.
Waiting List and Stand Provision:
1984/85           1985/86          1986/87         1987/88
<$500   +$500    <$500   +$500   ($500   +$500   <$500    +$500
Waiting        NA                NA           3207            NR        NR
Provision  0       0         0       0       0        0       0         0



- 97 -                        Annex 7
Page 3 of 12
Important Note on Indicative Investment Protrams
Primary Infrastructure
This Indicative Investment program for PrImary Infrastructure has
been formatted based on priority technical need. Projects and/or annual
progress would be subject to detailed appraisal when annual PSIP
submissions are presented to MLGRUD. However the Investment Program as
outlined in this Annex is unlikely to be affordable from Government
viewpoint. Similarly, in many cases affordability of Town Councils to the
proposed levels of investment would require revenue increases that would
clearly be difficult to achieve and sustain.
For these reasons Local Authorities would be required to further
prioritize their programs when annual PSIP submissions are made in order to
achieve the requisite reductions.   This would be achieved by omitting or
deferring stsprojects. Overall project costs are based on this reduced
level of expenditure and not on the orogram as outlined in this technical
annex.
Urban Services and Maintenance
Programs outlined for Urban Services rnd Maintenance would not be
required to be further reduced in view of their urgent nature and overall
project costs, based on the Urban Services and Maintenance Program included
in this Annex. However in annual PSIP submissions it would still be
necessary to fully justify vehicle and equipment requirements.
Housing
Housing related infrastructure will also be subject to possible
further reductions during the annual PSIP process. The investment program
for servicing of stands under the sector loan program will generally not
exceed 60X of the total PSIP allocation in any given year, and approvals
for respective towns will be made accordingly by MPCNH at the time of PSIP
approval.
BINDURA RURAL COUNCIL
Summary of Financial Performance
'OCO
1985/86      1986187  1987188   1988/89
Income               3505          4211     3357       3566
Expenditure           3412         4218     2934       3248
Surplus/(Deficit)    (93)          ( 7)      423        318
1.       Financial Management
1.1      The Treasury  consists  of  eight  staff  headed  by the Assistant
Treasurer who is not professionally qualified and who graduated from
university in 1986.   There  is  one  internal  auditor who reports to the
Chairman of the Council.



- 98 -                        Annex 7
Page 4 of 12
1.2      The accounts are up  to  date.    The 1986/87 financial statements
have been audited and the certificate issued without qualification.
2.       Implementation Capacity
2.1      In  1986/87  the   council's   capital  outlay  totalled  $294,000
(excluding the Welfare Management  Account).    The  program for the Bank's
project averages $700 000 per year over five years. This size of program
should not impose a significant burden upon the technical and managerial
capacity of the council's staff.
3.       Financial Status
3.1      Although  incurring  a  small  deficit,  the  counc.l's  financial
performance improved significantly during 1986/87. This reversal of recent
poor results was due mainly to a substantial rise in charges during the
years
50% increase in water charges
1002 increase in service charges
over 50% increase in rates
3.2      The Council's position  improved  further  during 1987/88 with its
accumulated deficit of $313 000 being reduced to $157 000:
Rural Roads            ($ 448.0)
Housing                ($ 476.6)
Designated Areas        $ 199,1
Welfare Managemen-      $ 568.5
($ 157.0)
3.3      The Council's draft  financial  recovery  plan  estimates that the
overall deficit will be removed during 1988/89 and the individual deficits
on Rural Roads and Housing eliminated  by  30  June 1992.   The Council has
agreed to implement increased charges for water, services and rural roads.
4.       Affordability of Proposed Investment
4.1      During Appraisal the following investment programme was assessed as
being technically feasible for the Council to implement:
$ 000
1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/4 Total
Payments              689    1209      823     514      554    3789
Recurrent costs        160     170      90       70      80     570
Percentage increase
in expenditure on
base year 1988/89     4.4      4.5     2.3      1.7     1.9
Source  Tables  1 - 3 attached.



_ 99 _                         Annex 7
Page 5 of 12
4.2      The recurrent costs arising from this programme have been estimated
and these are shown above.   In 1989190 the programme will increase the
Council's recurrent expenditure by 4.4X, excluding the impact of inflation.
4.3      The council has calculated that this programme is affordable.
Increased revenue from supplementary charges and higher unit taxes in the
rural areas should generate sufficient funds both to meet the additional costs
and to sustain the financial recovery plan.



- 100 -                         Annex 7
Page 6 of 12
BINDURA
INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
DEBT CHARGES
TABLE 1
$000   (BASE COST)
1989/90  1990191  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94   TOTAL
------------------------------------------------------
WATER SUPPLY
Payments                           124      162        0       50       50      386
Debt Charges - annual               10       20        0       10       10       50
SEWERAGE
Payments                             0      507      313        0        0      820
Debt Charges - mnnual                0       50       30        0        0       80
ROADS & DRAINAGE
Payments                            50       96       96       50       50      342
Debt Charges - annual               10       10       10       10       10       50
URBAN SERVICES
Payments                           475      130       25       25       25      680
Debt Charges - annual               90       20        0        0        0      110
HOUSING
Payments                             0      314      389      389      429     1521
Debt Charges - annual                0       30       40       40       50      160
LAND
Payments                            40        0        0        0        0       40
Debt Charges - annual                0        0        0        0        0        0
TOTAL PAYMENTS                     689     1209      823      514      554     3789
TOTAL DEBT CHARGES                 110      130       80       60       70      450
BIN1



- 101 -                         Annex 7
Page 7 of 12
BINDURA
INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
DEBT CHARGES AND RUNNING COSTS
TABLE 2
$000
1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94   TOTAL
-----------_.------------------------------------------
URBAN SERVICES
Debt Charges                        90       20        -        -        _      110
Running Costs                       50       10        -        -        -       60
HOUSING
Debt Charges                         -       30       40       40       50      160
Running Costs                        -        -        -        -        -        0
OTHER SERVICES
Debt Charges                        20       80       40       20       20      180
Running Costs                        -       10        -        -        -       10
TOTAL DEBT CHARGES                 110      130       80       60       70      450
TOTAL RUNNING COSTS                 50       20        0        0        0       70
------------------------------------------------------
160      150       80       60       7e      520
TOTAL  -  Including physical
contingencies design and           160      170       90       70       80      570
supervision
BIN2



Annex 7
- 102 -                                     Page 8 of 12
INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
ASSESSMENT OF AFFORDABILITY
TABLE 
1 Estimated Recurrent ExpFndituie         1988/89
excluding debt chrges and
brewory/boerha II                                   2420    (671)
2 Estimated Tot l Debt Charg e            1988/89
1230   (881)
a Total Estimated Recurrent Expenditure  1986/89      8860. (10O0)
zm.=
4 Tot l Estimated Incom                   1988/89
Including approved Increases In
charge., excluding brewery and
beerhall                                            4480 e
CE=
1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94
5 Percentage Increase In Erp.nditure - base costs               4.4      8.9      2.0      1.6      1.7
- Including physical
contingencies ds ign
and supervision         4.4       4.6      2.3      1.7      1.9
8 Percentage Increase In Incom       - bess costs               8.6      8.2      1.7      1.2      1.4
- Including physical
contingencies design
and supervision          8.6      3.7      1.9      1.4      1.6
* Note: excludes welfare expenditure and Income
am8



PR'M9RY INFRASTRUCTURE AND
MAINTENANCE INVESTMENT PROGRAM              TABLE: BIN I
TOiN BINDURA
Of which
CWONENT                                      LX       FX    89-90    90-91    91-92    92-93    93-94    TOTAL duties +
X       X        T        T        T        T        T             taxes
UAND
For Ponds                                   260        0       40        a        0        0       0       40        0
Total Land                                                     40        0        9               a       40        0
Prlce conting.nclee                                         10        O        O        O        a       10       9
RAND TOTAL (LAND)                                              So        0        0        0       0        50       e
WATER SUPPLY
Chirwardila Phas 2
Augmentation of Maine In Town                         20        9        o        a       so       SO      1060      7
Vein of 2501_ di  In Atherston Road          U        20      124        0        9        9       o       124       9
Distribution 1I69 of 1SO_ die                 O       20        0      182        6        *       6       162      11
Sub Total Water Supply                                        124      162        1       so       so      286      26
SEWRAGE
22t_ die tunk to Chilridsz                   o        10        0       84        9                0       64        2
_   die turnk to Chiwaridza                  Uo       10        0       92        0        a       0       92        3
37t   di trunk to Chwaridza                 so       1O        0       s8        0        0        a      t8         1
Tretm_t Ponds to Chiwsrid                    U s      1i        0      $18 8     18        0        0     626       21
Sub Total Sewrag                                                0      607     8l1s        6        9   82          27
ROADS A DRAINAGE
Aterntone Road rmeonstruction - 1J9          so       40        0       9        96        0       9       192      26
Other Roads A Maintenance                    of       40       Uo        0        0       SU       U       1        20
Sub Total Roads and Drainage                                   UO       86       #0       O         o      842      46
URBAN SERVICES AND MAINTENANCE
2 no tipping trucks                          so       49      139      180        0       0        a      260       83
1 no front nd loader                         40       6o      210        o       e        9        9      210       76
2 no I tonne vanttes                          o       40       25       25       o                 0       So       10
1 no trctor                                  69       40       70        0       *        9        9       70       22
Spare parts                                  40      6S        20       21       20       20       20      la       86
Sub Total Urbn Services & Maintenance                         4S5      176       20       20      20      690      283
TOTAL (Bse Costs)                                             629      940      429      120      120    2288      382
Deign A Supervision                                         68       94       43       12       12      224       as
Sub Total                                                     892     1064      472      132      182    2462      865
Physical contingenes                                        es       94       43       12       12      224      a8
Sub Total                                                     755    1128       515      144     144     2696    3a8
Price contingencies                                        318      372      285       73       92      902      184
GRAND TOTAL                                                   886    tS00       749      217     236    as85       582
o 



URBAN II LOW INCOME HOUSING INVESTMENT PROGRAM
______________________________________________________
(Income rango Z8 160 - Z8 060/month)
(1988 costs Z81696)
Housiag p-ojections exclude committed foreign
cotinanced projects such as USAID and UREAN IA and 19
These ilgures are indicative only ond will be reviewed
*nnually based on PSIP submissions.  Financial allocations
will be dono by the Ministry of Public Construction
and National Housing
Unit Cost Forglon  D6uti./  1989/U0  1990/91  191/92  1992/98  1998/94 Total 5 y       Local  Foreign Doutes/
Taxes                                                                                  Taxes
Blndurs Council
No. of plot  (low-Inca)                                              T7       so       36       of        810
Land Acquisition                                                      O        7        7        7         28       28 6
On-site Infrastructure
Survey                    11.080        6                          6        6        6        9         26       24         1                 _
Roads/drains               1.008       40       18                70       80       BO       86        816      186       124       24        
Wate Supply                0.6S0       2         6                89       44                44        171      186        84        6
Sewerge                   60.6         10                         85       49       40       40        156      149        16
Electricity                9.760       80      1t                 49       SO       SO       SO        21?      152        e6       16
StreetlIghting                6.6OS       80       10                 6        7        7        7         29       20         8         2
Sub-Total on-aits Intrastructure                                    204      284      284      284        9065      57       248       so
Excluding electrliIty                                            165      176      176      18         e88      565       198       84
Co m  nity Facilities
(Prin. schools, clinic       0.096                                   49      S6       s6       s6         217      217
corn. centers)
Design/Supervision                                                   16       19       19       19         72       72
Total                                                               276      1S5      81s      815       1228      974       249       56
Physical # Price Contingenclos                                      122      166      219      272        774                                  o
Housing sortgugo Finance 
Requirements 1                                                               540      617      017         17 
2896     2390                        o
0
1 includes plot price (land, survey, roads draina"e  electricity, strtlighting and                                                            '4
average cost of house construction (ZI Sooo per unit) (98/19/86)



URBAN II LOW MODERATE INCOME HOUSING INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(Income rangp Zs 65 - Zs low/month)
(1908 costs ZSowI)
Housing proj etlonu exclude co_itted foreign
cotinrnced projects such as USAID and UREAN 1A and 14
Thes  figures are indicative only and wil be reviewed
annually based on PSIP submissions. Financial allocationu
will be dono by the Mintstry of Public Construction
and National Housing
Unit Cost  Foreign  Dutieh/  199/90  1990/91  1991/92  19S/98  1998/94  Total s y       Loeal   Foreign Duties/
Taxes                                                                                  Taxes
91ndura Council
No. of plot  (low-incm)                   3        #                27       aS       as       so        118
Land Ai s sition                                                      4        5        5        5         is       19
On-sitt infratructure
Survey                     *.100        6                          a        8        J        3         12       11         1 I
Roads/drains               1.10        40       11                40       46       46       46        177      10S        71       14
Water Supply               0982S       20        0                22       26       26       2S         97       70        19        6
Sewerag 9750                          1is                         29        8       28       23         88       80         9
Electricity                1.0W        as       10                26       82       82       82        124       97        87        9
Streetlighting                0.185       80       is                 4        4        4        4         16       11         6        1
Sub-Total on-ite infrstructure                                      110      1U3      183      183        514      372       141       28
Excluding electricity                                             88      101      191      101        $9d      288       104       20
Cermunity Facilities
(Prim. echools, colnic
cee. centers)
Design/Supervision                                                    9       11       11       11         41       as        11        2
Total                                                               129      140      149      148        572      420       153       30
Physical + Price Contigencieo                                        57       85      102      127        369
Housing mortgag Finance
Rel remnta 1                                                                 412      471      471        471
1825     1825                       ' 
1 Includes plot price (land, survey, roads drainage"  elctricity, streetlighting and                                                         III
average cost of house construction (Zs 6e99  per unit) (98/198s)
c-



- 106 -
Dage 12 of 12
PRSIURt D     WASTRJCf
lpple-.ntat;on Schodul-
CmY: Sindura
-  Properatian & Procurc_nt
Implemntation
July       July        July        July        July        July        July   eat.     E!
__   _ _88__9     Yt89-90   ____-91      i191-92    _ _92-93     FY93-94   Contracto    Contract
CtKPONEUr                          CAL Qtra   q 44 Ql 42 43 Q4Q1 Q2   491 Qill il2 4t0 AQRl 12  ZS 41l 2  8 94 Ql ii2  LUC   cSe    Ranoa
Water Supply:                                                                                                                   <   S00
a) 280 o     die  ain In Ath-raton Road            -      _                                                          1   0    *  16
b) 1U0 - die distribution loap Chi,aoridzu                                                                            1   0
c) ug_nttion  t mane in ton                                                          _ _  _                          2    0  ZSSOO-Zsi10t
.0
Severae":                                                       L
) 22S ma trunk to Chiearidga (Ph 2)                                                                                  1   0   >Z91000
b) SW _m                                                                                                             1   0  * 0
e) 375a_            S                                    _ _ _                                                       1  0
d) Trtetent ponds for Chibaridza                          _  _  _    _                                               2    0
t4. S 1000
Road* and Drainage:
a) Atkaratona Rad reconstruction                                                                                     I _   _ _  -  1   0
b) Road rehabiltietion                                                                                               a _ _   _  |  _  _   _  0
Urban Servic.. * MaIntnance:
a) Vrbiee  and aqu;Ipnt                            -    -         - --                                --        *         1
Reeidentitl Inftrtructuru                                                                                              0 t    0
a) On-site inlrastructUre                                                                                          2 
Annex 18
Page   oir



- 107 -                                               ANNEX 8
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Vehicles t Equipment to
be financed under the Urban
Services Maintenance Component
BULAWAYO                                                       CHITUNOWIZA TOWN COUNCIL
Item---                      No. of Units  Cost (ZU000)       item              No. of Units       Cost (Zs'
Pickups                             76          3126           Koebis                    2                120
5-7 Tonne Tipping Trucks            26          3260           Pickups                                    280
Pickups (9 tonne)                   15           626           5 ton trucks              2                170
Flatbed Trucks                      10           560           dumpers                   4                 80
Beer Tankers                         6            650          Tractora                  6                420
Utility Vehicles                     6           175           Refuse trucka             5                660
Ambulances (small)                   5           176           Vacuum tonker             1                130
Water carriers                       3           474           Grader                    1                236
Tractors                            20          1400           Front end loader          1                210
Refuse Compactor Trucks             20          4000           Low loader                1                250
Breakdown Recovery Veh.              1           4e6           Vibratory roller          2                100
Fergency Tender                     1           470           Motorcycles               a                 12
Water Tender                         2           880           Fire Tendors              2                13O
Front end loader                     4           840           Ambulances                5                175
Bulldozer                            2           680           Workshop machinery, tools                  100
Landfill Compactor                   1           360           Spare parts                                260
Grader                               1           235
Rollers                              3           600           Sub Total                                 3312
Motor Cycles                        20            80
Other Equip. etc                                1000
Spare parts                                      500
sOWANDA RURAL COUNCIL
Suu Total                                      20424           Itaa               No. of Units      Cost (ZS
Pickups                   3                76
Tractors/trailers         2               140
HINDURA                                                        Ambulance                 1                 35
Item                         No. of Units  Cost (ZS'000)       Fire tender               1                 6s
Sparepa rts                                60
Tipping Trucks                       2           260
Front end loader                     1           210           Sub Total                                  375
1 Ton Vanettes                       2            SO
Tractor                              1            70
Sub Total                                         590          GWERU
Ite-m             No. of Units       Cost (Zs'
1 Ton Pickups            6                150
CHECUTU                                                        2 Ton Tipper              2                280
yIte                         No. of Units  Cost (Z'000)       7 Ton flatbed             1                 66
2 Ton Pickups             2                7'
Pickups                              4           100           Ambulances (small)        2                 70
7 Ton Tipping Trucks                 2           260           Small Tire Tender         1                 a6
5 Tonne flat bed truck               1            66           Small Cars                2                 40
Refuse collection veh.               2           260           Tractors                  4                280
Ambulances                           2             70          Motorcycles               2                  8
Excavator                            1           180           Rollers                   2                200
Bulldozer (smail)                    1           165           Grader                    1                236
Tractor drawn mowers                 2            16           Other Equipment                            300
Tire Tender                          1            65           Spare parts                                200
Spare parts                                       60
Sub Total                                1933
Sub Total                                       1221



-108-
ANWJX 8
Posg- 2-on
MUNICIPALTY OF CHINNOYI                                       KWEKWE
IteM                         No. of Units  Cost (ZS'OO0)    Xi;*                No. of Units      Cost (Zoo
Pickup*                             4            125          Waste Mngt Trucks        3                go0
Dumpers                             2            40           Bulldozer (small)        1                155
Tractor*                            a           210           Tipping trucks           4                620
Vacuum Tanker                       1            120          Recovery Trucks          1                 60
Grader                              1            230          Pickups                  6                1SO
Front end loader                    1           210           Ambulances               2                 70
BulIdozer                           1           155           Fire tender              1                 a6
Water carrier                       1            158          Small parts                               180
Ambulance                           135
Workshop, spares                    1s                        Sub Total                                1690
Sub Total                                      1333           MARONDERA TOWN COUNCIL
Item              No  of Units      Cost (UV
Grader                   1                230
HARARE                                                        Front end loader         1                210
Itoz                         No. of Units  Cost (ZU000)      Roller                    1                100
Tractor*                 2                140
Light Pasgr. Care         SO                   1000           Tipping trucks           3                390
1 ton pickup             125                   8126          Refuse                    2               280
2 ton pickup              46                   1676           Fire Engine              1                65
7 ton truck               3o                   3900          Ambulances                2                70
12 ton                    20                   3400           Minibus                  1                46
Water carrier              1                    160           Pickups                  6                150
Adjustable ladder          2                   2800          Spare parts                                110
hydraulic platform         1                   1350
Water tender               3                   1320           Sub Total                                17.0
Motor pumps                3                   1305
Retuse Compct. Truck      20                   6000           MASVINGO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
Container Trail.          26                    6oo           Item              No. of Units      Cost (ZB,
Motorcycles               50                    200
5 ton dumper.              5                    425           1 ton Pickups                            150
Mobile compresoro          8                    600           2 ton Pickups            1                a3
Minibus                    1                     46           7 ton trippers           4               520
Ambulances                 8                    210          Refuse Trucks             2               260
Hose layer                 1                    405           Tractors                 6                3C0
Foam tender                1                    465          Ambulances                2                70
Heavy breakdown veh.       1                    405           Tender (small)           1                65
Fire engines (small)       5                    325           Flatbed trucks           2                65
Fire A amb. equip.                              50           Motorcycles               6                20
Spare part.                                     500          Road Roller (small        1                s0
Bulldozer (small)        1                1S5
Sub Totol                                     29616          Other Veh.                                600
Spare parts                               150
Sub Total                               2C O
HWANCE LOCAL BOARD
Item                         No. of Unite  Cost (ZB 000)
Grader                              1           240
Front end loader                    1           210
Tipper Truck                        1           130
Refuse truck                        1           1SO
Pickup                              1            25
Fire tender (small)                 1            6s
Spare parts                                      60
Sub Total                                       860



- 109 -
ANNEX 8
PagseT .1
KADOMA                                                        REDCLIFF MWIICIPAL COUNCIL
It ^                         No. of Units  Cost (ZSOOO)       2t.               No. of Units      Cost (Z8O
1 to 2 ton Pickup.                  S            76          Pickups                   5                125
Refuse trucks                       2           260           Tractors/trallers        2                140
5 Ton Tipper                        1            e6           Ambulance                1                 85
Ambulance (smllj                    1            a8           Fire tender              1                 65
Trectors                            1            70           Spareparts                                 60
Motorcycles                         2             8
Water Bowser                        1            20           Sub Total                                 425
Roller                              1            15
Sparo parts                                      74
Sub Total                                       642          RUSAPE TOWN BOARD
Item              No. of Unit.      Cost (Zs*
Indicative Allocation                    460
KARIBA TOWFN COUNCIL
It_                          No. of Units  Coat (Z8OCO')     Sub Total                                 460
Pickup.                             8            76
Refuse van                          1           10
Ambulance                           1            as          SHURUCI TOWN COUNCIL
Fire tender (smll)                  1            65
Spare parts                                     100           It.               No. of Units      Cost (Zs8
Refuse Trucks            2               260
Sub Total                                       405           Pickup$                  2                 40
Flatbed pickup.          1                 56
Ambulance                1                a5
Spere part.                                9O
MUTARE CITY COUNCIL
item                         No. of Unit. Cost (Z3'OO0)      Sub Total                                 460
Front end loader                    1           210
Medium Buldozer                     1           840
Small Buldozer                      1           1S5          VICTORIA FALLS
1 Ton diesel pickup.                S           125           ItY               No. of Unit.      Cost (Zs,
I Ton gas pickup.                   S           125
Refuse Tipper trucks                2           260          Pickup.                                     76
6 ton tipper trucks                 2           170          Tractor and refuse        1                 0
Spare part.                                     825           Ambulance                1                 5
Small tire               1                es
Sub Total                                      1710          Sparepart.                                 6o
Sub Total                                315
NYANGA RURAL COUNCIL
item                         No. of Unit.  Cost (ZStOOO)
ZVISHAVANE
Replcement/addition                                           !o                No. of Units      Cost (Zs,
vehicle, equip.,
plant                                          800          Pickup.                   8                6o
Spare parts                                      SO          Tipping Trucks            2               260
Refus Truck              1                180
Sub Total                                       850           Ambulance                1                 86
Fire Tender              1                a6
Spare part.                               130
OTHER LOCAL AUTHORITIES
Item                         No. of Unit.  Cost (ZO'OOO)    Sub Total                                  680
Indicative Allocation                           6000
Sub Total                                       6000
TOTAL (ZS '000)              77S



- 110 -                       Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Housing Revolving Fund to be Operated by Local Councils
Introduction
1.       It is intended that under this project individual local
authorities will borrow from the National Housing Fund (NHF) to fund the
construction of serviced plots. These loans will be repaid in accordance
vith prevailing terms and conditions. Currently, loans are repaid to the
NHF on an annuity basis at 9.75Z over 30 years.
Obiective
2.       The purpose of establishing a Revolving Fund within a local
authority is to provide a mechanism whereby receipts from the sale of
serviced stands (constructed under the project) are available immediately
to fund new construction. The creation of the fund is intended also to
secure the repayment of the original loan from Government.
Description
3.       A separate Fund will be established within each council's
financial accounts. Amounts advanced from the NHF under this project will
be credited to the Fund on their receipt.
4.       Advances will be made to the borrowing accounts (housing, roads,
water and sewerage) to fund the cost of construction. The borrowing
accounts will repay the loan (principal and interest) to the Fund on the
same terms and conditions required by the NHF.
5.       When serviced stands, constructed with advances from the Revo'ving
Fund, are sold and a capital receipt obtained, the proceeds will be
credited to the Fund. They will add to the balance available for further
advances to borrowing accounts and the service debt. The borrowing
accounts will repay these advances/loans on the same terms and conditions
which apply to the NHF.
Requirements in Establishing and Operating a Fund
6.       The accounting for the Fund's transactions will be separate from
the council's other funds. The Fund will be subject to the annual audit of
the council's external auditor. The format of the Fund's Income and
Expenditure Account is shown on page two of this Annex.
7.       Advances from the Fund will be used solely for the purposes of
constructing serviced stands in accordance with the specifications set out
in the Loan Agreement between the Bank and Government.
8.       Annual provisions will be made in the Fund for the complete ani
prompt repayments of loans (principal and interest) to the NHF.
9.       Surplus balances on the Fund will be invested until required for
further advances to borrowing accounts. Interest earned on these



- 111 -                      Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
investments will be credited to the Fund. In the absence of specific
external investments, any balance held on the Fund will attract interest at
an average rate consistent with that obtainable externally. This
'notional' interest will be credited to the Fund and charged to the Rate
Account.
HOUSING REVOLVING FUND
INCOME & EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 19
$ '000        $ '000
Balance B/Fwd                                                   xxx
Add:
Receipts from National Housing Fund               xx
Repayments of Principal and Interest
from Borrowing Account                        xx
Capital Receipts from Plot Sales                  xx
Interest Earned on Surplus Balance               xx
xxx
Less:
Advances to Borrowing Account                     xx
Repayments of Principal and Interest
to National Housing Fund                      xx
(xx)
Balance Available for Advances to Borrowing Account CiF         xxx
Source: Bank Mission



-112 -
ZIMBABWE                                       Annex 10
Page I of 1
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FORMAT FOR BUILDING SOCIETY MONITORING OF PROGRESS IN PROCESSING MORTGAGES
Building Society:
Town_                 Ar A:         Fin. Year:_  Month:
Low-Ineome Mortgage. - Incomes Below ZS 650/month
Applications Process:                                        Month    Fin. Year  Total
No        NO        No
Applications received
Applicationo approved
Applications deferred
Applications refused
Applications withdrawn                                     -----
Mortgages Granted:       Month    Fin. Yer   Total
8 4000 -  6000         --         --_        __
- 1000            ---      --------                   -----     -
310001 - 12000                         ---          -----           ----
312001 - 14000                  -----    -----
Subtotal                          =           r                            =
Mortgages Withdrawn      ------   -- --                       ----
Bonds Forwarded          -*-- --                                       --------
Bonds Registered         --- ------
Total Amount Disbursed   -        -           -              -
Moderate Incomes - Income Range ZI 60 - ZS 1000 Month
Applications Process:
Applications recelved
Applications approved
Applications deferred
Applications refused
Applications withdrawn
Mortgages Granted
3 4000 -  8000                   ---- ------
3 8001 - 12000         -----    --------
*12001 - 16000         -----    ---------
816001 - 20000         ----     ---------------- --
320001 - 24000                    --- ----    ---------
Subtotal                                                                           --=U=  -
Mortgages Withdrawn      ----- -------
Bonds Forwarded          -----    -------
Bonds Registered         -----    -------
Total Amount Disbursed   -----                               -        -            -
Source: Bank mission.



- 113 -              Annex 11
Page 1 of 6
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Requirements for Preparation of Financial Performance Plans
The Financial Performance Plan (FPP) to be prepared by each Local
Authority will be organized in accordance with the following headings and
schedules, each of which is briefly explained. An illustration of the
format is provided following the introducticn.
Summary of Actions
Statement of actions to be taken by (a) Local Authority (b) MLGRUD
(c) any other party, the date of implementation of these actions and the
estimated financial impact of these actions.
Current Financial Position
Statement of opening accumulated surplus or deficit analysed by
account. Description of the 3-5 year trend in the Local Authority's
financial performance including comments on its ability to repay loans and
on the availability of reserves or balances. Statement of current position
in posting financial accounts and certification by external auditors.
Explanation of factors leading to deterioration of financial
position. Indication of significant issues likely to affect future
performance including, for example, additional services or reoreanisation of
local administration.
Financial Performance Plan
Description of the main components of the FPP.
Assumption Risks and Constraints
The principal assumptions underlying the FPP need to be stated
including, for example, the inflation rate adopted, the borrowing approvals
required or the population growth. The major risks or constraints on the
success of the FPP should be listed.
Action Required (Cost Reduction and Income Maximization)
The main actions required will be explained for (a) the Local
Authority as a whole and (b) the individual main service accounts. These
actions will distinguish between those measures which are intended to reduce
costs and those measures intended to maximise income. For each of the
actions an estimate of the financial impact will be presented showing the
additional revenue and/or reduced expenditure in each of the years covered
by the FPP.



- 114 -              Annex 11
Page 2 of 6
Targets (Financial and Manpower)
Targets will be listed against which the FPP performance will be
monitored by the Local Authority and by MLGRUD. These targets will be
mainly financial although manpower and efficieuLcy targets may be included.
The financial, performance targets will be expressed in terms of total
expenditure, total income. total employee costs, total running costs or
total debt charges. The targets will be listed on an annual basis over the
FPP period.
Responsibilities and Implementat.on Schedule
For each of the actions required in the FPP, responsibility for
their implementation will be specified and target dates agr od. The
responsibilities primarily will rest with the Local Author :y, but the
relevant Ministry may have a crucial role to play.
Schedule A - Summary Analysis of A,nmual Surplus/Deficit by Account over .he
FPP Period
This schedule presents a summary, by main bervice account, of the
estimated year end surplus/deficit over the FPP period. The schedule will
show the years in which individual accounts begin to achieve surpluses and
to eliminate their accumulated deficits and, also, when the Local Authority,
in overall terms, generates surpluses.
Schedule B - Detailed Analysis of Annual Surplus/Deficit by Account over the
FPP Period
This schedule presents the detailed analysis by main service
account from which Schedule A is derived. For each account total
expenditure is analysed across three principal headings of 'employee costs',
'operational costs' and 'debt charges'. The income for each account is
shown in total and the resulting surplus or deficit is presented.
Schedule C - Capital Investment Program : Payments over the FPP Period
This schedule presents the capital program upon which the FPP has
been based. For each of the years, it will show the capital payments
analysed across the main service accounts including, for example, water
supply, sewerage, roads and drainage and housing.
Schedule D - Capital Investment Program : Recurrent Costs over the FPP
Period
This schedule includes the estimated recurrent costs arising from
the capital program included in Schedule C.   The costs are analysed by main
service account across each of the years in the FPP period.
Schedule E - Impact on Rates, Charges, Fees, and Tariffs over FPP Period
This schedule will contain detailed illustrations of the tariffs to be
charged for each main service account in each year of the FPP.
Source: Bank Mission



- 115 -                                         Annex 11
Page 3 of 6
SCOEDJLE A                                                                                                           Attachmnt I
S~M4RY OF ANAL SIUS/(DEFICIT)
Lucal Authority
Account                  l/Fwd Accumulated               Annual Surpltu/(Detct) a C00                                C/Fad Accumulated
Surplu-/(Defct) ----------------------------    Surplus/(Deficit)
*t I July lw88    12/89       19,o90      1990/91     1991/92     1992/93     19a/94        at 1 July 1994
Accumulated Surplu-/
(Deficit) B/Fwd
Rates
Housing
Water
Sewerage. etc
Accuau'lted Surplue/
(Deficit) C/Fed



- 116 -
Ar.nex 11
Page 4 of 6
SOIEDULE 8                                                                                          Attachunt 2
OEWAILD ANIAL8XS OF AOWAL SUWtMS/(OEnC)
LaeaI Authority
a 00-
1988/89     198/90       1990/81      1991/92     1992/93      1993/94
Account:
E plbe. Coate
Running Coe.*
Debt Charges
Total Expenditure
Le"  Incom
Surplus/(Deficit
U Incr.ase in Charg.



- 117 -                                             Annex 11
Page 5 of 6
SOMULE C                                                                                                  Attachment 
CAPITAL INWESTMW  PR0ME:  PAtE2M8
L=al AathoritW
I 000
1988j89    l989/90     1990/91     1991/92     1992/93     199a/94             Total
Category at Expendture
& Sch_.
Water Supply
Sewerage
lwaitng
other
TOTAL PAYMENTS



- 118 -                                        Annex 11
Page 6 of 6
SOIIULE D                                                                                         Attachmnt 4
CA?PTAL INEST5T PROGRAMEI:  REUM9  COT
a 000
l19/69     1989/90     19/91       1991/92     1999/99     1993/94            Total
Analysis by Account
VATER
Debt charges
Revenue contributions
Running expenses
TOTAL RIURRENT COSTS
Debt chargs
Revenue Contributions
Running Expenses
TOTAL.-  -                          -     ---  -- --  --- - - - ,,



-119 -                   Annex 12
Page 1 of 10
Z_MBAB'WE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Fival Financial Performance Plan for Bindura Town Board
1988189 - 1993/94
CONTENTS                                                      Paragraph Number
Summary of dated Actions to be taken                           1 - 2
Current Financial Position                                     3 - 6
Recovery Plan
Assumptions Risks and Constraints                              7 - 10
Actions Required                                              11 - 13
Targets                                                       14 - 16
Reponsibilities and Implementation Schedule                   17
Schedules
A.  Summary of Annual Surplusi(Deficit)
B. Detailed Analysis of Annual Surplus/ (Deficit)
C.  Capital Investment Programme:  Payments
D.  Capital Investment Programme:  Recurrent Costs
E.  Revision in Tariffs
BINDURA RURAL COUNCIL
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE PLAN OVER FIVE YEARS 1989/90 TO 1993/94
SUMMARY OF DATED ACTIONS TO BE TAXEN
1.       Bindura Council's Financial Performance Plan (FPP) has been
designed to recover the accumulated deficits on all relevant accounts by 1
July 1994.
2.       The principal actions required to implement the FPP are as
follows:-
(a)  to increase the unit tax in the Rural Roads Account from $300
per unit to:
$ 700 by no later than 1 July 1989
$ 750 by no later than 1 July 1990
$ 860 by no later than 1 July 1991
$ 980 by no later than 1 July 1992
$1100 by no later than I July 1993
(b)  to increase water charges by 1OZ per annum by no later than 1
July each year; and
(c) to increase service charges by 102 per annum by no later than
1 July each year; and



- 120 -                   Annex 12
Page 2 of 10
(d) to restrict increases in expenditure to the increases arising
from inflation and from the effects of the approved
investment programme. The Council's manpower budget will not
exceed XX during the FPP period.
CURRENT FINANCIAL POSITION
3.       The expected accumulated surplus/(deficit) on each of the main
accounts is as follows:-
Z$o00
1 July 1987    1 July 1988    1 July 1989
Designated Areas     25.5           199.1           551.7
Rural Roads         (238.4)        (448.0)         (220.3)
Housing             (511.8)        (476.6)         (248.7)
Welfare Management  411.3           568.5           727.2
Overall Surplus/
(deficit)       (313.4)         (157.0)         809.9
4.       The accounts requiring recovery actions are Rural Roads and
Housing. During 1987/88 the financial performance of the Roads Account
continued to decline with an annual deficit of $209,600, compared with an
original estimated surplus of $108,000. The Housing Account generated a
small surplus of $35,200 which marked a reversal of the previous trend of
deficits. However, actual performance did not match the estimated surplus
of $67,000.
5.       The financial performance of all accounts is expected to improve
significantly during 1988189 for the following reasons:-
(a) proposed increases in water and service charges;
(b) additional income to the Rural Roads Account arising from
capital works to be carried out on the Chiwaridzo scheme by
the Council's labour force; and
(c) additional income arising from the construction of 800 stands,
most of which is being funded by USAID.
6.       The financial accounts of the Council are up to date and the
Treasurer's Department is fully staffed to the approved establishment
level.
PERFORMANCE PLAN
Assumptions, Risks and Constraints
7.       The FPP has been based on the 1988/89 estimates.  Expenditure in
later years has been inflated by 1OZ per annum excluding debt charges.
8.       It is assumed that borrowing approval will be given for the
capital investment programme detailed in Schedule C attached. For the



- 121 -                     Annex 12
Page 3 of 10
purposes of calculating debt charges the present rate of interest, 9.752,
has been assumed for the FPP period. No additional capital investment will
be incurred.
9.       Ministerial approval is obtained for all tariff increases in
1988189 and in future years.
10.      The legal status of the Council remains unchanged throughout the
period.
Actions Required
11.      The Council will not sanction increases in expenditure other than
those arising from inflation or resulting from the agreed investment
programme. Total staffing numbers will not increase during the FPP period.
12.      Water and Service Charges will be increased by 102 (or at least in
line with the rate of inflation) each year by no later than 1 July. The
additional income resulting from these regular increases is estimated as
follows:
$000,000
Designated Areas   Housing        Other         Total
1989/90
1990/91
1991/92
1992193
1993194
13.      In the Rural Roads Account the unit tax will be increased as
follows:
By no later than:
1 July 1989        $ 700     estimated additional income    $260,000
1 July 1990          750                                       32,500
1 July 1991          860                                       71,500
1 July 1992          980                                       78,000
1 July 1993         1100                                       78,000
Targets
14.      The accumulated deficits will be eliminated by the following
dates:
(a) Rural Roads, by no later then 30 June 1994
(b) Housing, by no later than 30 June 1993
15.      The Welfare Management and Designated Areas will remain in surplus
or breakeven in each year during the ZPP period.
16.      The Manpower Budget will not exceed  XX  in any year.



- 122 -                   Annex 12
Page 4 of lO
Responsibilities and Implementation Schedule
17.      The  implementation  of  the  FPP  is  the  responsibility  of the
Council.   thk  key actions required and the target dates for completion are
set out below:
Action              Target Date             Responsibility
1.     Submission to MLGRUD
for annual increases
in taxes, tariffs and
charges
a) unit tax
b) water charges
c) service charges 30 April prior to
effective financial    Bindura Rural Council
year                    (BRC)
2.     Approval by MLGRUD to
annual increases in
taxes, tariffs and
charges             30 May                  MLGRUD
3.     Implementation of
increases           1 July                  BRC
4.     Monitoring of FPP   Six monthly, January
and July               BRC & MLGRUD
5.     Revision of FPP      Annually, January -
March, as part of
PSIP and Budget
preparation            BRC & MLGRUD



- 123 -                                                Annex 12
Page 5 of 10
DINDTRA
SCHEDULE A
SU*KARY OF AMNJAL SURPLUS/DEFICIT
Annual Surplus/(Deficit)    6000
Accumu I ated                                                              Accumulated
Surplus/(Deficit)  1988/89   1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94   Surplus/(Deficit)
b/fod at 1 July 1988 ---------------------------------------------------- c/fwd at 1 July 1994
Accumulated Surp i us/
(Deficit) b/f-d                            (157.0)    600.9  1468.9  20S1.9  2845.0  3018.9
Designated Area                 199.1            852.6   412.0   400.0   380.0   866.0   349.0                    248.9
Rural Roads                     (448.0)          227.7    80.0    56.0    S6.0    50.0    87.0                      28.7
Housing                        (476.6)           227.9   112.0    72.0    48.0    82.0   105.0                      140.3
Welfare Management              888.8i           15.7   105.0    48.0                                              677.2
Accuwlated Surplus/
(Deficit) c/fad             (187.0)           809.9  1488.9  2061.9  2548.9  3018.9  8504.9                    3504.9



- 124 -
Anngx 12
Page 6 of 10
SCHEDULE B
DETAILED ANALYSIS OF ANNUAL SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)
6000
19898/89 1989/90  1980/91  1991/92  102/9B  1098/94
RURAL ROADS
Employee Cosxs              169.0   196.0   204.0    224.0    246.0    271.0
Operational Expenses        601.5   384.0   420.0   460.0   504.0   682.0
Debt Charges                 17.8    60.0   100.0   140.0   180.0   280.0
Total Expenditure           787.8   680.0    724.0    824.0    980.0   1068.0
Lae  Income                1015.6   680.0    780.0    880.0    980.0   1100.0
Surplus/(Deticit)           227.7     60.0    56.0      68.0     60.0     87.0
S Increase In lncome                 14X      15X      131      11X      12X
DESIGNATED AREAS
Employee Costs              801.8   881.0   365.0   401.0   441.0   488.0
Operational Expenses        486.7    686.0   689.0   648.0    712.0   784.0
Debt Charges                821.4   821.0   821.0   821.0    821.0    821.0
Total Expenditure          1109.4  1187.0  1275.0  1870.0  1474.0  1691.0
Less Incom                 1482.0  1599.0  1676.0   1760.0   1840.0   1940.0
Surplus/QDoficit)           852.6   412.0   400.0    880.0    806.0    849.0
X Increase In Income                 9S       5X       6S       6X       Ss



- 125 -
Annex 12
Pae. 7 of 10
SCHEDULE C
CAPITAL INVESTMENT PROGRAMME: PAYMENTS
g000
COMPONENT                      1989/S0  1990/91  1991/92  1992/98  1998/94   TOTAL
LAND
Sewerag  Ponds                      40                                           40
WATER SUPPLY
Augmentation of Mains                                          SO       SO      100
Atherston. Rd. Mains 250mn         124                                          124
Distribution                                162                                 162
SEWERAGE
Chtwaridza: 225m trunk                       64                                  64
800m trunk                    92                                   92
87n . trunk                    a8                                  as
Treatment Ponds                818      818                        626
ROADS A DRASNAGE
Atherstone Rd                                So       96                        192
Other                               50                         SO       SO      1SO
URBAN SERVICES A MAINTENANCE
Vehtcles, plant A equipment        4S5      175       20       20       20      So0
HOUSING
Servicing of 420 stonds)
Community facilities   }                    314      889      889      429     1521
TOTAL (base coet)                  e69    1254       818      509      549    8799
TOTAL (contingencies, design
& supervision)



- 126 -
Annex 12
W-age0 of 10
BINDURA
SCHEDULE D
CAPITAL INVESTWM PROGRAM: RECURRENT COSTS
8000
1989/90 1990/91  1991/92  1992/93 1993/94  TOTAL
HOUSING
Debt Charges                      30      140      140      70       80      460
Running Expenses *                 0       10       10       0        0       20
RURAL ROADS
Debt Charges                      40       40       40      40       s0      210
Running Expenses .                20       20       20      20       a0      11o
TOTAL DEBT CHARGES                70      180      180     110      180      670
TOTAL RUNNING EXPENSES            s0       80       go      20       go      180
* Note- running expenses estimated on following basis: (a) vehiclee, plant and equipment,
lOX of capital value.
(b) other fixed assets, 1X of
capital value



- 127 -
Annex 12
Pasg 9 of 10
T 1988/89 19/90 1990/91  1991/92  1992/98 1998/94
WELFARE MANAGEMENT
Employee Cost              106.2   116.0   127.0   140.0   164.0   169.0
Operational Expense        447.4   492.0   541.0   596.0   654.0   720.0
Total Expenditure          562.6   608.0   668.0   786.0   606.0   669.0
Los Income                 711.8   713.0   713.0   785.0   808.0   889.0
Surplus/(DefleTt)          168.7   105.0    45.0    -          -        -
X Increase In Incom                                  8X       iOn      10X
HOUSING
Employee Costs             82.8   866.0   402.0   442.0   468.0   586.0
Operational Expenses       580.8   588.0   662.0   716.0   786.0   868.0
Debt Chargs                894.2   924.0  1064.0  1204.0  1274.0  1364.0
88  1766.8  1678.0  2118.0  2862.0  2548.0  2755.0
Less Income               1984.7  1985.0  2190.0  2410.0  2600.0  2860.0
Surplus/(Deficit)          227.9   112.0    72.0    48.0    62.0   106.0
X Increase in Income                         10X     10X      ON       10X



- 128 -
AnDLx 2
Page 10 of 10
SCHEDULE E
REVISION IN TARIFFS
8000
198S/89 1989/90 1990/91  1991/92  9M/98  1993/94
1. Unit tax, per annum           400      700      750     86o      980    1110
2. Water
Fixed charge, per month     6.80    6.80    6.40    7.1t       7.80    6.50
Variable per cubic metre    0.42    0.46    0.51    0.66    0.62    0.67
S. Service Charge
MUrried Aeccmodation, Chipadie
Claus A to I                28.02   25.82   27.86   80.64   88.70   87.07
Class J to L                29.87   82.a0   865.53    9.10   48.00   47.80



-129                          Annex 13
Page 1 of 22
ZIMBABVE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Final Financial Performance Plan for Gweru City Council
1989190 - 1992/93
Contents
Paragraph Numbers
Summary of Dated Actions to be taken                   1 -  2
Current Financial Position                             3-  7
Performance Plan
Assumptions, Risks and Constraints               8 - 11
Actions Required                                12 - 13
Targets                                        14 - 17
Responsibilities anti Implementation               18
Schedules
A.    Summary of Annual Surplusl(Deficit)
B.    Detailed Analysis of Annual Surplus/(Deficit)
C.    Capital Investment Programmes  Payments*
D.    Capital Investment Programmes  Recurrent Costs
E.    Revision iv Tariffs
*     Excluded from this illustrative example.
GVERU CITY COUNCIL
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE PLAN OVER FOUR YEARS 1989190 TO 1992/93
SUNMARY OF DATED ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
1.       Gweru City Council's Financial Performance Plan (FPP) has been
designed to evaluate the accumulated deficits on all accounts by 30 June
1993.
2.       The actions required to achieve this objective are summarisied as
follows:
(a) rents, rates, fees, charges and tariffs will be increased
annually on 1 July in accordance with Schedule E to this FPP.
Note: All $ amounts in this Annex are Zimbabwe dollars.



-130-                        Annex 13
Page 2 of 22
Should inflation rates differ from those assumed in the FPP. the necessary
revision in charges will be modified accordingly;
(b) manpower numbers will be constrained to the current total
number of 1689;
(c) recurrent expenditure will increase annually only to reflect
the impact of inflation and the agreed investment programme
oet out in Schedule C.
CURRENT FINANCIAL POSITION
3.      The Council's financial position has deteriorated significantly
over the last five years since 1983184. Annual deficits have increased the
Council's accumulated deficit to $9.0 million at 1 July 1988:
Accumulated Surplus/(Deficit) $000 at
1 July 1987     1 July 1988
Rates                               1343             2300
Water                              (3647)           (4490)
Incorporated Areas                 (2887)           (3015)
Welfare                            (2722)           (3571)
Health                                -              (702)
Beer Fund                             -               637
Other                               (387)            (177)
(8300)          (9018)
4.       The accounts with the largest deficita are Water, Welfare and
Incorporated Areas. The Water account's poor: financial performance is
mainly due-to the capital investment on the augmentation scheme and the
resulting heavy incidence of capital costs. Tariffs have not been
increased in line with rising and additional costs. Similarly for the
Incorporated Areas charges are set at a level which is inadequate to
recover costs from the house occupier.
5.       The deficit on the Welfare account has increased beyond the
ability of the Beer Fund to subvent the total costs. The increasing demand
for the services and the limited opportunity to levy charges to achieve
full cost perforDasnce have increased the burden on the Rate Account to
provide the necessary working capital.
6.       In the 1988/89 Estimates the Council has budgeted to halt the
annual decline in its financial performuAnce. A large number of tariff
increases have been approved which should enable the Council, in total, to
recover costs. However, during 1988/89 no progress is expected to be made
in reducing the accumulated deficit on any account.
7.       The Financial accounts are up to date and the 1987/88 final
accounts are awaiting audit by the Urban Development Corporation.



131                        Annex 13
Page 3 of 22
PERFORMANCE PLAN
Asumpt3ons, Risks and Constraints
8.         The four year FPP has been based on the 1988189 Estimates.
Costs, other than debt charges, have been inflated by lO per annum over
the plan period. Debt charges have been calculatee on the basis of
existing commitments plus the capital programme set out in Schedule C.
Loan repayments and interests costs have been calculated on the existing
terms and conditions applied by the GDL? and NEP, namely 9.75Z over varying
periods ranging from 5 to 30 years.
9.         It is assumed that there vill be no significant changes to the
functions and responsibilities of the Council which might affect its
spending levels or its sources of revenue.
10.        The FPP is dependent upon a regular, annual. increase in tariffs
and charges. It is assumed that these will be implemented in full on the
due date.
11.        Expenditure is forecast to increase only in line with inflation
and with the additional costs arising from the capital programme. The
demand for increased services (arising from population growth) will be met
either from additional revenues -r from a redeployment of exisitng
resources resulting from changed priorities or improvements in efficiency.
Actions Required
12.      The Council will prepare a programme for the review of each of its
operations in order to ideutify opportunities for reductions in costs and
improvements in efficiency. This programme is intended to enable the
Council to maintain its overall manpower levels to 1689 or lower and to meet
increased demand without recourse to additional expenditure over the FPP
period.
13.      The Council will implement, with effect from 1 July 1989/90 and the
succeeding 3 years, the tariff increases detailed in Schedule E to this FPP.
The estimated additional income arising from these increases is set out in
the detailed financial forecasts presented in Schedule B.
Targets
14.      Total manpower numbers will not exceed 1689 during the FPP period.
15.      The Council's overall deficit will te eliminated by 30 June 1992.



- 132 -                        Annex 13
Page 4 of 22
16.      Deficits on individual accounts w$il be eliminated by the following
datess
Water:                    30 June 1993
Refuses                   30 June 1992
Incorporated Areass       30 June 1993
Welfare:                  30 June 1993
Health:                   30 June 1993
Education:                30 June 1991
Estates:                  30 June 1993
17.      All remaining accounts will be budgeted to breakeven or to
generate a surplus each year of the FPP period.
Responsibilities for Implementation
18.      Responsibility for the implementation of the FPP rests with Gweru
City Council. The actions required to implement the FPP and the
responsibilities and target dates are set out below:
Action                       Date                   Responsibility
Annual Request for          30 April proceeding          Submission to MLGRUD
increases in tariffs        the year of application      by Gweru City Council.
Approval of Tariff          30 Hay                       W.GRUD      -
Increases
implementation of           1 July                       Gweru City Co'mncil
tariff Increases
Preparation-of              30 June 1989                 Gweru City Council
Operational Performance
Review Programme
Monitoring of PPP           Six monthly, January         Gweru  City   Council  and
and July                    MLGRUD
Revision of PPP             Annually in January          Gweru City Council in
effective from following    liason with MLGRUD
1 July



Annex 13
- 133-                                          Page   of 22
SCHOED A
SUWARY OPF ANUAL  U*PUJS/(P> Crr)
ACCODNT          SIM  ACaMLATOS 1911/0  1966/60  199/9   191     1991193    C/1U AC'IXUTED
SWUPS/(DFICIT)                                                       SUJEPLW/IICIT)
AT 1 JALT im                                                         AT 1 JULY 1993
ACOUMILA
9/F                                     (9016)   (am30)   (6")   (S1S)    3207
Rat"                   2300              1014     19       297      495      567           4132
Estates                 (C)               (4)       -       (2)      (3)      I7              2
Properties              5s               (91)      54       110      150      214            499
Electricity                                    -        -         -            -              -
Water                 (4490)              659     (175)    $99    1is       1t06              95
Severage                89                (1)    (104)    16C        41t9     o6            1243
Refuse                 (193)              (6)      so       70      9S        105            12i
Incerporated Aras,  (3015)                 9       G6U      741      075     1042            407
Bser Fund               037               2SJ      64       62       70       219           1264
Waltere               (3571)             (175)     924      049      967      906             2
Income cnerting        (70)                a       12       19       29       J1             27
Helth                  (702)             (67)    S3         341      132      541             0
Educatin                -               (1oo)    132       I09      22       191            298
ACCUMULATED SWIS-
(DEFCI) C/FP          So18             (0100)  (6031)   (2319)    3207    9302             9030



- 134 -                  Annex 13
Page 6 of 22
SCHEDULE B
DETAILED ANALYSIS OF ANNUAL SURPLUSJ(DEFICIT)
PAGE 1
$000
1988/89  1989190  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
EDUCATION
Employee Costs               10       24       37       57       79
General Expenses             15        3       55       86      116
Repairs & Maintenance         1        2        4        6        9
Debt Charges                 38      265      445      632      883
RCCO                        106      128      128      128      128
---------------------------------------------
Total Expenditure           170      422      669      909    1215
Less Income                  10      554      777      931    1396
---------------------------------------------
Surplus/ (Deficit)        (160)      132      108       22      181
Z Increase in charges                        50?      30Z      502
ESTATES
Employee Costs              103      113      124      136      150
General Expenses             75       83       91      100      110
Repairs & Maintenance         2        2        2        3        3
Debt Charges                 10       10       10       10       10
Total Expenditure           190      208      227      249      273
Less Income                 186      208      229      252      290
Surplus/ (Deficit)          (4)              (2)      (3)       17
= Increae in c s  1 = == =o ========_===
2 Increase in charges                12?      10X      10?    15?



-135-
Annex 13
Page 7 of 22
SCHEDULE B
DETAILED ANALYSIS OF ANNUAL SURPLUSJ(DEFICIT)
PAGE 2
$000
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
RATES
Employee Costs                   3402    3742    4116    4528    4980
General Expenses                 3469    3816    4197    4616    5078
Repairs & Maintenance             135      149     163      180      198
Debt Charges                      549      679     825      917    1102
RCCO                               18       22      24       26       29
Total Expenditure                7573    8408    9325   10267    11387
Add Appropriation
Welfare                                    914      914     914      917
Health                                     859     859      858      863
---------------------------------------------
7573   10181   11098    12039   13167
Less Income                      8315   10061   11067   12173   13391
Less Appropriation from
Electricity Account (Income)      272      299     328      361      397
Surplus/(Deficit)                1014      159     297      495      567
INCORPORATED AREAS
Employee Costs                   1365    1501    1652    1816    1998
General Expenses                 3185    3504    3854    4239    4663
Repairs & Maintenance             218      239     263      290      319
Debt Charges                     1282    1423    1561    1575    1775
RCCO                                1        1       1        1        1
---------------------------------------------
Total Expenditure                6051    6668    7331    7921    8756
Add Appropriation
Welfare Account
Health Account                             173     173      174      179
---------------------------------------------
6051    6841    7504    8095    8935
Less Income                      5925    7347    8081    8889    9778
Sub Totals                      (126)      506     577      794      843
Less Appropriation from
Electricity Account (Income)      135      149     164      181      199
Surplus                             9      655     741      975    1042



- 136 -
Annex 13
Page 8 of 22
SCHEDULE B
DETAILED ANALYSIS OF ANNUAL SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)
PAGE 3
$000
1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92  1992/93
PROPERTIES
Employee Costs              42       46      50       55      61
General Expenses           103      113     124      137     150
Repairs & Maintenance       50       55      60       66       73
Debt Charges               394      394     394      394     394
RCCO                        10        8       0        0       0
---------------------------------------------
Total Expenditure          599      616     628      652      678
Less Income                508      670     738      811      892
---------------------------------------------
Surplus/(Deficit)         (91)      54      110      159     214
2 Increase in charges     101       32Z    10Z      10Z     102
ELECTRICITY
Employee Costs             110      121     133      146      161
General Expenses            40       44      48       53      58
---------------------------------------------
Total Expenditure          150      165     181      199     219
Less Income                557      613     673      741      815
---------------------------------------------
Surplus/(Deficit)
Before Appropriation       407      448     492      542     596
Less Appropriation
Rate Account               272      299     328      361      397
Incorporated Area          135      149     164      181     199
Surplus/(Deficit) After
Appropriation
Z Increase in charges               101     10?      10Z     10S



- 137 -
Annex 13
Page 9 of 22
SCHEDULE B
DETAILED ANALYSIS OF ANNUAL SURPLUSI(DEFICIT)
PAGE 4
$000
1988189  1989190  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
REFUSE
Employee Costs                 465      512      562     619      680
General Expenses               378      416      457     503      553
Repairs & Maintenance            2        2        2       3        3
Debt Charges                    43       55       55      40       46
---------------------------------------------
Total Expenditure              888      985    1076    1165    1282
Less Income                    883    1041    1146    1260    1387
Surplus/ (Deficit)             (5)       56      70       95      105
2 Increase in charges          402      18t     102      102      10Z
INCOME GENERATING PROJECTS
Employee Costs                  23       25       28      30       34
General Expenses                35       39       42      46       51
Repairs & Maintenance            1        1       1        1        1
Total Expenditure               59       65       71      77       86
Less Income                     65       77       90     106      117
---------------------------------------------
Surplus/ (Deficit)               6       12      19       29       31
2 Increase in charges                   181     182      182      182



- 138 -
Annex 13
Page 10 of 22
SCHEDULE B
DETAILED ANALYSIS OF ANNUAL SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)
PAGE 5
$000
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
WATER
Employee Costs              237      261     287      316      347
General Expenses           3945    4340    4774    5251    5777
Repairs & Maintenance       359      395     434      478      526
Debt Charges                799    2907    2872    3248    3693
RCCO                                 11       12       13       15
Less Recoveries           (1438)   (1582)   (1582)   (1582)   (1582)
---------------------------------------------
Total Expenditure          3902    6332    6797    7724    8776
Less Income                4561    6157    7696    9620   10582
---------------------------------------------
Surplus/(Deficit)           659   (175)      899    1896    1806
a Increase in charges               35Z      252      25Z      102
SEWERAGE
Employee Costs              154      169     186      205      225
General Expenses            512      563     619      681      750
Repairs & Maintenance       114      125     138      152      167
Debt Charges                974    1280    1280    1280    1280
---------------------------------------------
Total Expenditure          1754    2137    2223    2318    2422
Less Income                1753    2033    2378    2807    3087
--------------------------------------..------
Surplus/(Deficit)           (1)   (104)      155      489      665
a Increase in charges       40X     162      172      182      1o0



- 139 -
Annex 13
Page 11 of 22
SCHEDULE B
DETAILED ANALYSIS OF ANNUAL SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)
PAGE 6
$000
1988/89 1989)90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93
BEER FUND
Employee Costs            1711    1882    2070    2277    2505
General Expenses         17350   19085   20993   23092   25402
Repairs & Maintenance      140      154     169      186     204
RCCO                       380     418      459      505     556
---------------------------------------------
Total Expenditure        19581   21539   23691   26060   28667
Less Income              20414   22455   24700   27171   29888
---------------------------------------------
Net Profit before
Appropriation              833      916    1009    1111    1221
Less Appropriation to
'Welfare Account           600      852     947    1041    1003
---------------------------------------------
Net Profit after
Appropriation              233      64       62       70     218
2 Increase in charges              102      102     10S      102
'WELFARE ACCOUNT
Employee Costs             340     374      411     452      497
General Expenses           440     484      532     585      644
Repairs & Maintenance      103      113     124     137      150
Total Expenditure          883     971    1067    1174    1291
Less Income                108     129      155      186     223
---------------------------------------------
Surplus/(Deficit)
before Appropriation     (775)   (842)   (912)   (988)  (1068)
2 Increase in charges              202      20Z     202      202
Less Appropriation from
Beer Fund                  600     852      947    1041    1003
Rates Account                       914     914     914      971
Surplus/(Deficit) after
Appropriations           (175)      924     949      967     906



- 140 -
Annex 13
Page 12 of 22
SCHEDULE B
DETAILED ANALYSIS OF ANNUAL SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)
PAGE 7
$000
1988/89 1989/90  1990/91  1991192 1992/93
HEALTH
Employee Costs             1010    1111    1222    1344    1478
General Expenses           378      416      457     503      553
Repairs & Maintenance      164      180      198     218      240
Debt Charges                 7        8        8       9       10
RCCO                        12        1        1
---------------------------------------------
Total Expenditure         1571    1716    1886    2074    2281
Less Income                904    1039    1195    1374    1580
---------------------------------------------
(Deficit) before
Appropriation             (667)   (667)   (691)   (700)   (701)
Z Increase in charges               152      15X     152      15Z
Less Appropriation from
Rates Account                       859      859     858      863
Incorporated areas
Account                             173      173      174     179
Surplus/(Deficit) after
Appropriation             (667)     355      341     332      341



- 141 -
Annex 13
Page 13 of 22
SCHEDULE C
INVESTMENT PROGRAI4  : PAYMENTS



- 142 -
Annex 13
Page 14 of 22
SCHEDULE D
INVESTMENT PROGRAM: RECURRENT COSTS*
$000
1988189  1989190  1990191  1991192  1992/93   TOTAL
------------------------------------------------------
WATER
Debt Charges            344      836      750      480     445    2855
Running Expenses         30       48       54       34      31      197
SEWERAGE
Debt Charges             60      306       42                       408
Running Expenses         15                12                        27
INCORPORATED AREAS
Debt Charges            112      145      201      214     180      852
Running Costs            10       10       10       10      10       50
EDUCATION
Debt Charges             46      165      216      218     353      998
Running Costs             5       12       20      20       30       87
RATES
Debt Charges              6       23       27      30                86
Running Costa
------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL
Debt Charges            568    1475    1236       942      978    5199
Running Costs            60       70       96      64       71      361
------------------------------------------------------
628    1545    1332    1006    1049    5560
* Note: These figures are indicative and for illustration only



- 143 -                 Annex3
Page 15 of 22
SCHEDULE E
REVISION IN TARIFFS
SUMMARY
Z Increases
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
Rates                               21       10        10       10
Estates                    10       12       10        10       15
Properties                 10       32       10        10       10
Electricity                                  10        10       10
Water                      17       35       25        25       10
Sewerage                   40       16       17        18       10
Refuse                     40       18       10        10       10
Incorporated Areas   Various        24       10        10       10
Beer Fund
Welfare              Various        20       20        20       'O
Income generating                   18       18        18       18
Health               Various        15       15        15       15
Education            Various                 50        30       50



- 144-                        Annex 1
Page 16 of 22
SCHEDULE E
REVISION IN TARIFFS
RATE ACCOUNT
RATES                      1988189  1989190  1990/91  1991192  1992/93
Annual Percentage
In real terms                            11
Annual Percentage
to take care of inflation        1       10      10       10       10
---------------------------------------------
Total percentage increases       1       21      10       10       10
TARIFFS
CENTS IN $
On land valu'tion             1.50    1.82    2.00    2.20    2.42
Peri Urban Area:
_______________
up to $5 000                  1.50    1.82    2.00    2.20    2.42
$5001 - $6600 75Z of          1.50    1.82    2.00    2.20    2.42
$6601 - $8200 5O of          1.50    1.82    l'-00    2.20    2.42
$8201 and over 25Z of         1.50    1.82    2.00    2.20    2.42
On improvements              0.561   0.679   0.747   0.822   0.904
Unit tax - per half year    $51.33  $62.11  $68.32   $75.15  $82.67



- 145 -                    Annex 3
Page 17 of 22
SCHEDULE E
PAGE 2
VEHICLE LICENCES     1988/89  1989190  1990191  1991/92  1992193
Class 1 per year    $ 60.00     72.00    80.00    88.00    97.00
2/1           $204.00    247.00   272.00   299.00   328.00
Class 2/2              351     425.00   467.00   514.00   565.00
2/3              414     501.00   551.00   606.00   66'.00
3/1               12      15.00    16.00    18.00    19.00
3/2               30      36.00    40.00    44.00    48.00
4/1               30      36.00    40.00    44.00    48.00
4/2              117     142.00   156.00   171.00   188.00
5                18      22.00    24.00    26.00    29.00
Liquor Licences        300      363      399      439      483
Trading Licences       215      260      286      315      346
ESTATES ACCOUNT
Annual Percentage
in real terms           10        2       -        -        -
Annual Percentage
to take care of
inflation               10       10       10       10       10
---------------------------------------------
Total percentage
increase                20       12       10       10       10
TARIFFS
Railway Siding
Charges per hectare
per annum             $9.22   $10.33   $11.36   $12.49   $13.74
PROPERTIES ACCOUNT
__________________
Annual percentage
in real terms           10        2       -        -        -
annual percentage
to take care of
inflation               10       10       10       10       10
Total percentage
increase                20       32       10       10       10



- 146                   Anne-_D
Page 18 of 22
SCHEDULE E
PAGE 3
1988189  1989190  1990,91  1991/92  1992/93
Houses             $211.00   278.52  306.37  337.01  370.71
Houses             $172.00   227.04  249.74  274.71  302.18
Houses             $185.00   244.20  268.62  295.48  325.03
1 bedroomed flat   $139.00   183.48  201.83  222.01  244.21
2 bedroomed flat   $178.00   234.96  258.46  284.31  312.74
Cafe               $332.00   438.24  482.06  530.27  583.30
Houses             $154.00   203.28  223.61  245.97   270.57
Houses             $ 72.00    95.04  104.54  114.99  126.49
Houses             $198.00   261.36  287.50  316.25  347.88
Market Stalls
per week         $ 5.00       6.60    7.26    7.99    8.79
Vendors per week    $ 3.60      4.75    5.23    5.75    6.33
EDUCATION ACCOUNT
Annual Percentage
in real terms          -        -        40      20       40
Annual Percentage
to take care of
inflation              -        10       10      10       10
---------------------------------------------
Total percentage
increase               -        10       50      30       50
TARIFFS
Per property
per month            $1.00   $1.10   $1.65   $2.15   $3.23
SEWERAGE ACCOUNT
________________
Annual percentage
in real terms          40        6        7       8        0
annual percentage
to take care of
inflation              10       10       10      10       10
---------------------------------------------
Total percentage
increase               50       16       17      18       10



- 147 -                          Annex 13
Page 19 of 22
SCHEDULE E
PAGE 4
TARIFFS                    1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
Commercial & Industrial   $8.40        9.74    11.40    13.45    14.80
Domestic rateable area    $7.00        8.12     9.50    11.21    12.33
Domestic-Western
suburbs               $4.24        4.92     5.76     6.80     7.48
REFUSE ACCOUNT
______________
Annual percentage
in real terms               40         8       -         -        -
Annual percentage
to take care of
inflation                   10        10       10       10       10
Total percentage
increases                   50        18       10       10       10
TARIFFS
DOMESTIC:
(1) Rateable Area            $4.5    5.31      5.84     6.42     7.06
(2) Western Suburbs          $3.5    4.13      4.54     4.99     5.49
COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL
_______________________
(1) Daily collection     $8.40        9.91    10.90    11.99    13.19
(2)  Twice weekly        $6.30        7.43     8.17     8.99     9.89
WATER ACCOUNT
_____________
Annual Percentage
in real terms                17       25       15       15        0
annual percentage
to take care of
inflation                    10       10       10       10       10
---------------------------------------------
Total percentage
increase                     27       35       25       25         0
Z= = == ===-=---=Q=========        -=_==
TARIFFS
1. FIXED CHARGES
a) Domestic
Rateable area     $ 7.00       9.45    11.81    14.76    16.24
Western suburbs   $ 5.09       6.87    8.59    10.74    11.81
Outside Mun. Area $17.35      23.42    29.28    36.60    40.26
b)  Industrial        $ 6.37       8.60    10.75    13.44    14.78



- 148 -
Annex 13
Page 20 of 22
(c)  Commercial              1988189  1989190  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
__________
Meter size
Up to 20mm              $10.55    14.24    17.80    22.25    24.48
Up to 25mm              $23.90    32.27    40.34    50.42    55.46
Up to 40mm              $48.75    65.81    82.30   102.83   113.11
Up to 50mm              $86.32   116.53   145.65   182.06   200.27
Up to 80mm              $150.38  203.01   253.76   317.20   348.92
2.  CHARGE PER M3
_____________
Domestic-all areas        0.3124   0.4217   0.5271   0.6589   0.7248
Domestic-outside
Mun. Area                    0.47   0.6345   0.7931   0.9914      1.09
Commercial                0.4004   0.5405   0.6756   0.8445   0.9289
Industrial                0.3742   0.5052   0.6315   0.7894   0.8683
INCORPORATED AREAS ACCOUNT
__________________________
Annual percentage
in real terms                    -        14        0        0         0
Annual percentage to
take care of inflation          10        10       10       10        10
Total percentage increases       10       24       10       10        10
TARIFFS
1. -Houses
4 roomed                $25.20       31.25    34.38    37.81    41.59
5 roomed                $27.25       33.79    37.17    40.89    44.97
Area 4 detached         $14.20       17.61    19.37    21.31    23.44
3 roomed semi detached  $17.25       21.39    23.53    25.88    28.47
Single occupancy        $22.40       27.78    30.56    33.61    36.98
Dual occupancy          $12.60       15.62    17.18    18.90    20.79
Bachelor flats          $26.10       32.36    35.60    39.15    43.07
Married accommodation   $13.00       16.12    17.73    19.50    21.45
Dual occupancy          $11.95       14.82    16.30    17.93    19.73
Married accommodation   $12.40       15.38    20.98    23.07    25.38



- 149 -                          Annex 13
Page 21 of 22
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
Married Accommodation         $14.55     18.04    19.84    21.83    24.01
Married Accommodation         $18.55     23.00    25.30    27.83    30.61
Shared accommodation         $20.40      25.30    27.83    30.61    33.67
2 roomed semi detached        $11.40     14.14    15.55    17.11    18.82
3 roomed detached            $11.90      14.76    16.24    17.86    19.65
4 roomed detached            $13.00      16.12    17.73    19.51    21.46
3 roomed up easy              $16.75     20.77    22.85    25.13    27.64
2. SUPPLEMENTARY CHARGES
_____________________
5 roomed                     $11.73      14.55    16.00    17.61    19.37
Over 5 roomed                 $18.72     23.21    25.53    28.08    30.89
Each du.al occupancy          $ 7.02      8.70     9.57    10.53    11.58
Two roomed                    $ 5.87      7.28     8.00     8.80      9.69
3 roomed                     $ 8.18      10.14    11.15    12.27    13.50
4 roomed                     $ 9.62      11.93    13.12    14.44    15.88
Accommodation per block       $21.06     26.11    28.72    31.60    34.75
HEALTH ACCOUNT
Annual percentage
in real terms                   -          5        5        5         5
Annual percentage to
take care of inflation           10       10       10       10        10
Total percentage increases       10       15       15       15        15
TARIFFS
Maternity fees
(Early booking)              $20.00      23.00    26.45    30.45    34.98
Maternity fees
(late booking)               $25.00      28.75    33.06    38.02    43.72
Children U-5
(without clinic card)        $ 0.50       0.58     0.67     0.77     0.89
Children 16-18 years          $ 0.75      0.86     0.99     1.14      1.31
Adults-per first visit        $ 2.00      2.30     2.65      3.05     3.51
-per subsequent
visit                     $ 1.00       1.15     1.32     1.52      1.75
Adults (STD)-per first
visit                      $ 3.00      3.45     3.97     4.57      5.26
-per subsequent
visit                      $ 2.00      2.30     2.65     3.05      3.51



- 150 -                       Annex 13
Page 22 of 22
Table A shows the cash payments by a family in a two roomed house in
the high density areas - usually occupied by the lowly paid.
TABLE A
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
5.09     6.87     8.59    10.74    11.81
Water - fixed charge         6.25     8.43    10.54    13.18    14.50
-unit charge(20m3) ---------------------------------------------
11.34    15.30    19.13    23.92    26.31
4.24     4.92     5.76     6.80     7.48
Sewerage                     3.50     4.13     4.54      4.99     5.49
Refuse removal               5.87     7.28      8.00     8.80     9.69
Supp-Charges                11.40    14.14    15.55    17.11    18.82
Rent                      --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --
36.35    45.77    52.98    61.62    67.79
TOTAL PAYABLE
26Z      16Z      16Z      10l
Average 2 increace
Table B below shows the cash payments in the low density suburbs
for a 2 bedroomed flat.
TABLE B
-------                   1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
---------------------------------------------
7.00     9.45    11.81    14.76    16.24
Water - fixed               12.50    16.87    21.08    26.36    28.99
-unit charge(40m3) ---------------____________________________
19.50    26.32    32.89    41.12    45.23
7.00     8.12     9.50    11.21    12.33
Sewerage                     4.50     5.31     5.84      6.42     7.06
Refuse removal             178.00   234.96   258.46   284.31   312.74
Rent                     ---------------------------------------------
209.00   274.71   306.69   343.06   377.36
TOTAL PAYABLE-----                                                
31Z      122      12Z      102
Average 2 increase



- 151 -
Annex 14
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule for Preparation of Financial Performance Plans
LOCAL AUTHORITY   COMPLETION OF  CONSULTATION   APPROVAL    SUBMISSION        COMMENTS/ASSISTANCE REQUIRED
DRAFT/REDRAFT   WITH MLORUD  BY COUNCIL    TO MLORUD
PLAN
Bulawayo        October 89       November 89  February 90  April 90      Advice on format and presentation
Chitungwiza     October 89       November 89  February 90 April 90       Some assistance required from
ULORUD
Oweru           October  89      November 89  February 90  April 90       Advice on format and presentation
of narrative report
Harare          November 89       January  90  March 90     May  90      Advice on format and presentation
Kadoma          November 89       January  90  March 90     May  90      Some assistance required from
MLORUD
KweKwe          December 89       February 90  April 90     June 90       Some assistance required from
MLGRUD
Masvingo        December 89      February 90  April 90      June 90      Some assistance required from
MLCRU
Victoria Falls December 89        February 90  April 90     June 90       Major involvement by MLORUD
Bindura         Recovery Plan submitted to Council in advance of         Decision required by MLGRUD on need
consultation with ULGRUD                                    for consultation and resubmission
of Plan to Council.
Chegutu         January 90       March 90      May 90       July 90      Some assistnce required from
MLORUD
Chinoyi         January 90       March 90      May 90       July 90      Some assistance required from
MLORUD
Chirundu        January 90       March 90      May 90       July 90      Some assstoance required from
MLORUD
Gwanda          March 90         May 90        July 90      Sept 90      Major involvement by MLORUD
Hwange          March 90          May 90       July 90      Sept 90      Some assistnce required from
MLORUD
Kariba          March 90          May 90       July 90      Sept 90      Some assitance required from
LOLRUD
Marondera       March 90         May 90        July 90      Sept 90      Advise on format and presentation
Mutare          March 90         May 90        July 90      Sopt 90      Some assistance required from
MLGRUD
Nyanga          March 90          May 90       July 90      Sept 90      Advise on format and presentation
Redcliff        March 90          May 90       July 90      Sept 90       Some assistanco required from
MLORUD
Rusape          March 90          May 90       July 90      Sept 90       Some assistance requirod from
MLCRUD
Shurugwi        March 90          May 90       July 90      Sept 90       Major involvement by ULORUD
Zv;shavane      March 90         May 90        July 90      Sept 90      Major involvement by MLGRUD
Source: Bank mission.



Annex 15
- 152 -                           Page 1 of 1
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Studies of Municipal Finance to be Undertaken Under the Project
In April 1986 the Commission of Inquiry into taxation reported on
its findings regarding the fiscal system of Zimbabwe. Recommendations were
made with regard to a number of issues affecting the funding and financial
management of local government and the relationship between central and
local government.
The MLGRUD wishes to commission a number of studies to examine
more closely the implications of several of the issues raised by the
report. The studies include the followings-
(a) the provision of free health services by local authorities
and the basis of cost recovery;
(b) the operation of commercial type enterprises as a source of
revenue;
(c) the levying of flat rates on all lands within urban centres;
(d) the exemption from rates of Government owned property;
(e) the sharing of revenue between central and local government;
(f) the funding of road maintenance carried out by local
authorities;
(g) the standardization and simplification of local authority
accounting;
(h) the operation of a deficiency grant/resource equalisation
grant;
(i) the provision of local government statistics.
The MLGRUD envisages a 3 year research programme staffed by local
academics and practitioners under a coordinator appointed by the Ministry.
The first of the studies will commence in early 1989.
Source Bank Mission.



Pegact, DomlammC orXns Q S  aftIf
Phv*!C%IffRKUlLJjI
8&fl 2L  Cow;rwn"c; IUA                                              C ei               t  Co LTI-nft    4ma.2    0W
i~~~~~~~~~~4   miN Mei iniIS F-Fr  ~flVfl~     Fflo
(A) Htao.rn loaratt.at..,
Lw iAcqluisitinw                  1.73       0  1.75   0.1i      0   0.18   1.93    0    1.93   0.70         0  0.79   2.73        0   2.73    -        -
o=ad P  rateorst rn            4.60       0 s.eo   0.48        0   0.46   5.26    0    5.26   2.15        0  2.15   7.42         0   T42    -        -      -
C4.d t'a. S-or                 3.66      .19   .85   0.37  0.02   0 39   4.03 0.21    4.24    .65   0.08   1 64   5.68    0.24  56.2    -            -      -
Ra.=  store Voter             36. 77   25.86  64.62   3.868  2.58   6.48   42.65 26.45   71.06  17.36   5. 50 22.86  60.00   33.93  93.93    0   5.20  5.20
sm.ra      -                  27.25    3.03 30.26   2.72  0.30   3,02  29.47 3.33   33.30  12.20   0 e3 12.63  42.16    3.96T  46.12    -            - 0
Stre"% U%%ingt                 3.90    1.67  5.57   0.36  0.17   0.5       4.26  1.0     .1    1.74   0.33   2.0    6.03    2.17   6:.2       0   0O.0   040
Water Sol                     22.87    5.72 28.59   2.29  0.5    2.67  25.16 6.30   31.46  10.25   1.22  11.47  55.42    7.52  42.94    -   1.40  1.40
r Slvr&i-ien l*fi2 HI _ 62  HI  *l *|0    It lifi f   AipiH *                                                  -i ru -O
(a) magoi6JPinang
440.00       0 480.00     0      0      0460.00    0460.60           0       0     0460.00         0460.00    -         -     -
(|}} Ce* t i>it               _   aa llQ  12.00       Q   L2;      A        a I..L                   0.Q   0          a...Q 12.0  Q.24      Q  LU    9.29
s6b T.ota                      440.00    D2.0 472.00      0  1.20   1.20 460.01 13.20  478.20        0   0.04  0.04 460.00   13.24 473.24    0   0.80  0.80
(C) Coo%., F.0lL&..
ji) Sclwoo _" Clinics,           26.60       0 2t.60   2.60      0   2.66  29.216    0   29.26   11.92       0  11.92  41.16       0  41.18    -        -      -
llj.:Qn _n4  wrvilo--                               -6                 d 2  4_           u -2  Q"  0J &  w  -6 rU _              -s *0        -       -      -
(0) El_clalt. Facilities
1 I4Elc ricity Ih raa ,ctar.    25.16   10.75 a5.94   2.52  1.06   J.60  27.06 1.i6    9.954  11.25   2.30  13.66   n."    U4.16  M.0
..1>   0  iW   Srvie.I.on          _L      2-.2   La3 Q   26 _Q          _2 "   9.2t    _.120  A    LII Q,LLZ  L9.L   4AA            -          LA.   L2
8. Total                        27.12   12.00 3676   2.T2  1.20   5.66  29.54 12.60   42.64  12.13   2.40  14.G2  41.97   15.29  57.25    -   2.50  2.50
(1  lrefr- ltruetur. eal                                                                                                                                                      -
Road. i td Storm V.tar       15.75    6.75 22.e0   1.53  0.67   2.22  17.60 7.42   24.72   6.14   1.    7.35  25.44    6.63  S2.07    0   1.60  1.60
Vater suply                  47.25   20.25 67.60   4.74  2.03   6.77  5.99 22.26   74.2'  18.47   3.65, 22.12  70.46   25.93  96.39    0   3.40  5.40                    w
Samar                       24.60   to.80 85.00   2.45   1.05   3.60  26.916 11.51   86.60   9.57   1.91  11.46  36.82   13.46  49.e9       -       -     -
(il) oaiOga NW Sue.r.lal         -Lb      5.    LO    L.3   9.1   2LS    LU               10. U l   U    9.22  LI   LI            1   1.        _         :
Sub Tyotl                       94.14   40.69 134.03   9.40  4.07  13.47  103.54 44.7   145.80  36.77   7.36  44.13 140.t1   52.12  192.43    0   5.20  5.20
(7) Urtam Service. A Pligom.ac.
IiV                                 so l.  Spo. . Pla   Ea   8.60   46.20 77.00   3.1   4.50   7.70  33.90 so.60   54.70  12.04   6.31 20.65  45.94   so.1  106.OS  -  860.50 36.50
( 1, Sa...yl;c                    1.54    2.31   5.65   0.15  0.25   0.40   1.69 2.56    4.25   0.61   0.44   1.03   2.30    a.00   5.60    -
Sub ToWl                         S2.34   46.51  0.85   3.25  4.65   0.10  65.863.8   6t.f5  12.65   6.73 21.40  46.24   62.11  116.65    0  s6.80 3s.50
(0) Rag..agl Doa,logomnt
tl T ical A_.la nc- A Stwdl          0   0,10  S.10       0     0       0      0 S.10    6.1        0   1.S2       0   9.42    s.42
I'llo      a *l1ga 5t a.o         0.      0.20  0.40   0.02  0. .2   0.04   0.22 0.22    0.44   0.03         0 O.03   0.25    0.22   0.47    0   0.20  0.20
111) Pi ebCapital OrlZa.  F      0.14    3.40  11.65   0.61  0.33   1.14   6.96 3.62   12.77   4.09   0.65  4.94  13.04    4.67  11             -      -
eA Tow                            8.54   11.79 20.13   0.65  0.35   1.18   9.17 12.14   21.51   4.12   2.17  6.29   15.29   I4.CU   27.60    0   0.20  0.20
00 latI tobti-am  b..lacomat1
(1) 1Miatio  of Loci om*rmwat
Appr I =     ;r  SIita           0    5.60  5.60       0      0      0       0  .60     5.60      0   0.94  0.94        0       0   6.64 6,64
oa1   t     y iT IZI, "0    8S.40  3.40                0      o0     0       0   ". 0    5.40     o   0.4e  0.46        0       o   S"0 s. S .
FOIl T.dualcol Aaai.taac.        0    3.60  3.60       0      0      0      0 5.60    3.60        0       0.60 0.90    0        0   4.40 4.4S
UI T7; gol 0A1. A Tra;lalp      0    1.30  1.30       0      0      0       0 1.80    1.30       a   0.21  0.21        0    1.51   1.61 1.51
VihIelga & Equipat            0.60    0.60  1.20   0.06  0.06   0.12   0.66 0.611   1.12   0.12   0.0o   0.17   0.76    0.71   1.49                                      1 
APr SWirtTr*i-ne ,   SStudies    0    1.SO   1.60      0      0      0       01.60      1.60      0   0.27  0.27        0    2.07   2.07             -     -             45 4
V*00l"t ^ wX    0.20    0.20     o   0.02  0 .0        o   0.22 0.2 o2      0       0o 0          0   0.22    0.22
Subtotal                          0.60   16.70 17.30   0.06  0.08   0.14   o." 16.70   17.44   0.12   2 55  2.67   0.75   19.33  20.11           -      -
TOTL                            762.6  160.6  943.27  30.26  15.64  45 92 792.94191.25  969.19  128.57  SI." 160.25 921.51  227.93 1140.44    0  54.20 64.20
Too" .0  Owgi.sa
tobes  Coa t                                                                                                                                               54.20
In Cgotawic                                                                                                                                                11 ?o
1. Toatl oe                                                                                                                                                , . rA



- 154 -                   Annex 17
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Appraisal Procedures for Approval of
Primary Infrastructure Projects under the PSIP
1.       Council would submit to MLGRUD any project proposal (with
annexures) for PSIP consideration, as in the past. Submissions would
include in addition, the following feasibility study (level of detail will
depend on size of project); preliminary engineering designs and drawings;
detailed cost estimates; financial recovery plan.
2.       Submissions would be appraised by MLGRUD.  The g'neral criteria to
be considered in the appraisal are set out in Annex 18.
3.       MLGRUD would prepare a brief Project Appraisal Summary report
(which would include amended project detail as may be highlighted by the
appraisal) and submit this with the original PSIP submission and annexures
to the MFEPD for review.
4.       MLGRUD would copy this to MPCNH for information regarding the
availability of primary urban infrastructure to service any proposed new
housing development.
5.       MFEPD would review and inform MLGRUD that the project is approved
or disapproved for inclusion in PSIP.
6.       MLGRUD would inform council of MFEPD action.   If project is
agreed for inclusion in PSIP then council would arrange for detailed
engineering and urdate of cost estimates if necessary.   (If costs increase
by more than 151 from the original submission, PSIP would require
resubmission in accordance with 1 above with full explanation.)
7.       Council would submit request for borrowing powrers on standard form
and submit, together with detailed engineering design, drawings, revised
Financial Recovery Plan, documents and updated cost estimates, for
reappraisal by MLGRUD. Detailed technical, financial and economic
appraisal will follow the relevant sector appraisal guidelines.
8.       MLGRUD would reappraise and, if approved, would prepare a revised
Project Appraisal Summary and would communicate its approval to council
(with conditions and/or amendments as necessary).
9.       Council would implement project.
Source: Bank Mission.



- 155 -                    Annex 17
Page 2 of 2
General Appraisal Procedures for Approval
of Housing Prolects Under the PSIP
1.       Council would submit to MPCNH any housing proposal (with
annexures) for PSIP consideration, as in the past. Submissions would
include a feasibility study according to the format set out in Annex 20.
Indicative cost estimates would be required but preliminary layout and
engineering designs would be optional.
2.       Submissions would be appraised by MPCNH, primarily based on
assessment of urgency of need, capacity to prepare and implement the
proposed project, and status of preparation.
3.       MPCNH would prepare a brief Project Appraisal Summary of each
submission (which will include amended project detail as may be highlighted
by the appraisal) and submit this with the original PSIP submission and
annexures to the MFEPD for review.
4.       MPCNH would copy this to MLGRUD for information to be included in
their evaluation of the FRPP.
5.       MFEPD would review and inform MPCNH that the projects submitted by
MPCNH on behalf of the local authorities are approved or disapproved for
inclusion in the PSIP.
6.       MPCNH would inform councils of MFEPD actions.  Councils would then
arrange for preliminary and detailed engineering designs and updated cost
estimates for those projects approved for inclusion in the PSIP.
7.       Councils would submit detailed information and documentation
(including detailed engineering designs and drawings) to MPCNH together
with a copy of their request for borrowing powers. The original request
for borrowing powers would be sent concurrently by the council, together
with its updated FRPP, to MLGRUD.
8.       After a detailed review, MPCNH would prepare a revised Project
Appraisal Summary and would communicate its decision to the council and to
MLGRUD.
9.       After receiving MPCNH approval, MLGRUD would approve or disapprove
the borrowing powers request, which it would evaluate in the context of the
FRPP, and communicate its decision to MPCNH and the council.
10.      Council would implement the project.



- 156 -                      Annex 18
Page 1 of 21
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Criteria for Selection and Appraisal
of SubproJects Under Parts A and B of the Proiect
A.       Introduction
1.       Local Authority proposals for projects in the PSIP would continue
to be reviewed by MLGRUD. MPCNH, and Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning
and Development (MFEPD), in accordance with the requirements of and
following the format set out in the MFEPD Circulars that are issued
annually for this purpose. Thus generally the submissions would indicate
that:
(a) all projects or sub-projects are consistent with the overall
policies and objectives of the 5 year National Development
Plan;
(b) the proposed projects or sub-projects are of the highest
priority.
2.       Although the PSIP process and procedures should remain essentially
unchanged, it is suggested that the process and techniques for appraisal of
sub-projects be strengthened to ensure that they are:
(a) technically, financially and economically viable;
(b) implementable in the time frame proposed;
(c) compatible with the overall development plans and objectives
of the town and with related sectors;
(d) the most cost efficient solutions (in terms of both capital
and recurrent costs) for dealing with the problems they are
addressing;
(e) consistent with conservation needs and the need to protect
the environment;
(f) cognizant of the institutional capacity of the Local
Authority to implement proposed projects;
(g) affordable to the Local Authority as measured by its ability
to meet the additional capital repayment and recurrent cost
obligations arising from the proposed investment, and
reflected in both the Local Authority's Financial Performance
Plan and the financial performance targets established for
the relevant service/account.
3.       It is suggested that a particularly rigorous appraisal be carried
out for projects of relatively large size.
4.       Suggested criteria for sub-project selection are shown below.
Detailed appraisal guidelines, set out in the Attachment to this Annex,



- 157 -                     Annex 18
Page 2 of 21
B.       Financial and Economic Selection Criteria for Projects
1.       Criteria applied to the financial and economic appraisal of sub-
projects will include the following:
(a)  Proposed investments must generate at least as much new
income as additional expenditures, including related
recurrent costs incurred. The following rates of return must
be demonstrated:
(i) For revenue-earning organisations. a financial rate of
return at least equal to the cost of borrowing funds and
an economic return of at least 122, except that for
certain mun3cipal operations such as water supply and
sewerage, only a part of the benefits are quantifiable
and economic rates of return of around 42 would be
acceptable.
(ii) For non-revenue earning organisations, no financial rate
of return will be calculated and an economic rate of
return will be determined only where it is possible to
quantify project benefits, in which case the return
should be at least 122 assuming all benefits are
quantified.
(b)  Proposed investments should be integrated with the Local
Authority's Financial Performance Plan, as approved by
HLGRUD. It must be demonstrated that the proposed investment
is affordable both to the Local Authority and to the
beneficiaries/ratepayers. The additional recurrent costs
arising from the investment must be quantified and the source
of funding specified.
C.       Technical
1.       Technical appraisal of sub-projects should be carried out
following the detailed guidelines provided in the Attachment. This
appraisal would review the following (PSIP submissions must include
relevant information to enable such review to be undertaken):
(a)  Subsector project implementation performance under the PSIP
in previous years including cost overruns/underruns;
effectiveness of subsector in meeting objectives (eg.,
improvement in service levels, standards, etc., such as per
capita level of water supplied; reduction in losses;
additional properties sewered; road sizes, additional length
of road provided). This performance would be measured
against service level norms and standards to be developed by
MLGRUD and MPCNH.
(b)  Expected impact of proposed subprojects on service levels,
consequences of deferring the investment, etc.



Annex 18
- 158 -                    Page 3 of 21
(c) The relationship of the subprojects to (i) the development
plan for the Local Authority; (ii) other sectors (eg. water
augmentation would normally mean attendant improvements in
wastewater collection and treatment); and (iii) housing and
industrial development plans.
D.       Institutional
The criteria to be applied in the institutional appraisal of sub-
projects will include the following:
(a) the Local Authority's previous experience of successfully
implementing subprojects of a similar size and technical
complexity;
(b) the availability of sufficient technical and managerial
resources with proven skills and ability;
(c) the existence of the procedures and controls within the Local
Authority which are necessary for the efficient and effective
planning, implementation and reporting of subproject related
activities and resulting costs.



- 159 -                           Annex 18
Page 4 of 21
Attachment
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Guidelines to Appraisal Criteria
1.       INTRODUCTION
The purpose of this attachment is to set out detailed guidelines
for the selection of primary infrastructure or housing projects or
subprojects in Local Authorities and the subsequent comprehensive
independent appraisal of the subproject proposed. The note commences with
a list of likely eligible subsectors that would be financed under the
Project, general sector development objectives and then sets out specific
guidelines for subproject appraisal.
2.       ELIGIBLE SUBSECTORS
Investments in urban infrastructure, services and maintenance,
together with low cost housing plot development would be the broad sectors
that would be financed under the Project. The following types of
infrastructure are illustrative of the subproject components that would be
financed:
(a)  water supply, including the repair and rehabilitation of
existing plant, equipment, distribution networks as well as
extensions to cope with growth;
Cb)  wastewater collection and disposal, including the
augmentation and improvement to sewerage systems and
appropriate low cost disposal facilities;
Cc)  solid waste management, including the provision or
rehabilitation of vehicles, equipment and containers for
collection and disposal;
(d)  roads and drainage, in particular the rehabilitation and/or
upgrading of existing road and drainage networks and the
construction of new road linkages and other measures to aid
traffic flow, reduce congestion, and improve public
transportation services;
(e)  street and area lighting to enhance safety and security;
(f)  markets and public transport terminals, including the
rehabilitation of existing facilities;
(g)  comprehensive infrastructure all to appropriate standards of
new high density housing areas;
(h)  other high-priority infrastructure investments which would
improve the efficiency of Local Authorities, enhance
industrial and commercial activity and improve living
conditions in high density residential areas; and
(i)  vehicles and equipment, including spare parts and workshop
improvements as necessary to ensure Local Authorities can
provide and maintain services which they are bound to provide.



- 160 -                        Annex I8
Page 5 of 21
Attachment
In addition to physical works as outlined above, the Project could finance:
(i)    studies aimed at institutional development, enhanced resource
mobilisation and improved technical and financial management;
(ii)    technical assistance for subproject appraisal, implementation
and monitoring; and
(iii)    training.
3.       SELECTION CRITERIA
Local Authorities will be responsible for identification and
selection of particular subprojects which will need to be sanctioned by the
Borrower. The subproject should be selected in accordance with the
following criteria:
(a) economic and financial feasibility
(b) technical feasibility
(c) effective demand for services and willingness of consumers to
pay, directly or indirectly, for the services provided;
(d) feasibility of the cost recovery mechanism (s);
(e) institutional capability of the local Authority to prepare
and execute the project;
(f) the availability of technical assistance from domestic or
international sources to supplement the Local Authority's
implementation capabilities, where necessary; and
(g)  creditworthiness, including the ability of the Local
Authority to carry the additional debt imposed by the project
to be financed.
A project selected for a revenue - earning service should have a
financial rate of return equal to at least the cost of borrowing funds and
an economic return of at least 12Z, except that for certain municipal
operations such as water supply and sewerage, only a part of the benefits
are quantifiable and accordingly economic rates of return of 4Z are
acceptable. A project selected for a non-income earning service will have
no financial rate of return; an economic rate of return, however, should be
determined where it is possible to quantify project benefits and in such a
case the economic return should be at least 12? assuming all benefits use
quantified.
The technical economic and financial feasibility may be determined
on the basis of preliminary engineering and studies. A more definitive
evaluation should subsequently be considered on the basis of detailed
engineering.



- 161 -                      4nnex 18
Page 6 of 21
Attachment
4.            INTEGRATED APPROACH TO INFRASTRUCTURE PROVISION
Projects included would need to demonstrate an integrated and
balanced approach to the improvement of infrastructure and urban services.
i.e., projects which coordinate town-wide improvements in sectors and
subsectors in a logical sequence (see section). However, consideration may
be given to significant projects which contribute to the efficient
functioning of productive urban economic activity, e.g., central business
districts, markets, and industrial areas. Special consideration may be
given to urban upgrading projects which integrate the provision of
infrastructure and urban services within a particularly defined urban area
which houses a significant percentage of the urban poor.
S.       ECONOMIC, FINANC'AL AND INSTITUTIONAL APPRAISAL
(a) The economic and financial viability of the various
components of the Project must be evaluated. However, there
will usually be a need for further analysis and
prioritization. Because of the scarcity of resources, the
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is an important basis of
evaluation. Sometimes, even with high economic rates of
return, projects may need to be postponed as unaffordable by
the Local Authority.
(b) In identifying and quantifying a project's costs and
benefits. where the economic benefits cannot be directly
estimated, the Local Authority should use projected revenues
and, in general, focus on whether demand projections and
tariffs are reasonable and whether the proposed project is
the least cost alternative. Where appropriate, avoided costs
(e.g. reduced vehicle operating costs) should be used in
determining project benefits. Certain components such as
sanitation will exhibit no meaningful prices for determining
costs and in such cases the analysis should concentrate on
appropriate service levels provided in the most cost-
effective way.
(c) The economic analysis should include foreign exchange and
employment effects.
(d) Appraisal should include an assessment of a projects's
viability in case of changes in key parameters, e.g. a 202
increase in costs or decrease in benefits, together with a
judgement on the likely variation from the basic assumptiLns.
(e) Where a project shows marginal returns or high risks, an
analysis of the risks should be done and recommendations
should be made on how to reduce risks.
(f) Where there are competing projects showing high rates of
return, preference should be given in project selection and
design to Local Authorities which are important production
and employment centers and to service centers for future
regional economic development. Local Authorities with



- 162 -                     Annex 18
Page 7 of 21
Attachment
effective local government institutions capable of
maintaining infrastructure and urban services. and of levying
and collecting suitable taxes, fees and other charges, should
be given the highest priority.
(g) Real demand for services should receive careful attention
because of the extreme scarcity of resources at this time.
However, any existing disparties in service levels among
Local Authorities and regions should not be inadvertently
widened and the urban poor should receive significant
benefits from projects financed under the Project.
(h) The ability of a prospective borrower to recover investment
costs through plot sales, user charges, or through increases
in property taxes and other forms of local revenue
enhancement will probably be the critical determinant in the
project selection.
(i) Tne rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructure
is expected to take priority over new investments in most
cases.
(j) Institutional development is expected to be an important
component in the project. In many cases this will initially
have to be catered to by consultants. Staff training and the
introduction of more effective systems of planning,
budgeting, financial control, maintenance and tax collection
are regarded as essential.
(k) Appraisal should not only establish a subproject's viability
but also, to the extent possible, given the Local Authority's
limited planning capabilities, look at sectoral policies and
ascertain whether the subproject contributes towards those
policies.
(1) In preparing and appraising specific sectoral components,
Local Authorities as well as the Borrower shall be guided by
the more detailed criteria set forth for the various sectors
below.
(m)  Through the Project, Local Authorities will be assisted to
improve housing and infrastructure investment programming,
and subprojects should be in conformity with these investment
programs. Local Authorities that do not have an overall
housing and infrastructure investment program should be
required to prepare a medium-term program as follows: Where
an up to date relevant master plan for a Local Authority does
not exist, an Integrated Infrastructure Plan should be
prepared (Terms of Reference have previously been suggested)
from which capital investments can more easily be identified,
planned, and programmed in the Housing, Primary
Infrastructure, and Maintenance Investment Progr&m to be
prepared.



Annex 18
- 163 -                        Page 8 of 21
Attachment
6.       SUBSECTOR OBJECTIVES AND SPECIFIC GUIDELINES FOR PROJECT SELECTION
AND APPRAISAL
(A)      WATER SUPPLY
(a) Objectives in the water subsector are:
(i)   maximising the productivity of existing investments by
rehabilitating plant and equipment where it is economic to do
so and by establishing a cost effective program of
procurement, inventory control and maintenance;
(ii)   improving service delivery through modifications to existing
plant and networks which will increase main pressures and
reduce system losses;
(iii)   improving service delivery to unserved populations and areas
of important economic activity through minor network
extension;
(iv)   improving plant and network capacity through rehabilitation
and new investments, to cope with increasing demand; and
(v)   strengthening institutional capabilities to plan, extend,
maintain, manage and finance - particularly with respect to
improved rates, billing and collection procedures - plant,
networks and services through appropriate technical assistance
and training.
(b) Project Selection and Appraisal Criteria for Water Supply Projects
are:
(i)   the extent of effective demand from domestic, commercial,
industrial and institutional populations as evidenced by
household income, expenditure and affordability surveys;
(ii)   the potential for yielding significant efficiency gains and
service delivery improvements through rehabilitating existing
plant and equipment, providing essential spares, reducing
leakage and/or adopting improved management and maintenance
methods; and
(iii)   the potential for enhancing net revenues of water supply
investments through improving service reliability and billing
collection.
(c) Technical Design and Evaluation Checklist
It is unrealistic to establish rigid technical design standards
that can be applied to a:l water supply projects in all Local Authorities.
However, at a minimum, the following data should be collected and assessed,
and should form the basis for standards which are appropriate to the level
of development of the Local Authority and the national standards and
practices for water supply:



- 164 -                        Annex 18
Page 9 of 21
Attachment
(i)   percentage of the urban population being served at the
following service levels: no service, tube well with handpump
(untreated), public standpipe, yard connection, or house
connections;
(ii)   percentage of the population at each service level
experiencing major service delivery problems due to : source
constraints, equipment failure, shortage of spares, shortages
of chenicals for treatment, system leakages, system design
constraints;
(iii)   per capita domestic water consumption at various service
levels;
(iv)   institutional (schools, hospitals, government buildings, etc.)
and industrial consumption as a percentage of total domestic
consumption;
(v)   peak day factor;
(vi)   peak hour factor;
(vii)   minimum and maximum flow velocities in pipes;
(viii)   minimum and maxim:n supply pressures;
(ix)   minimum size (diameter) of distribution mains;
(x)   minimum standards for pipe materials;
(xi)  minimum depth of cover over pipes;
(xii)   minimum water quality criteria (bacteria count, turbidity,
color, residual chlorine, etc).
(xiii)   minimum level of treatment;
(xiv)   public standpipes - number of inhabitants served per standpipe
per hydrant, minimum pipe size if hydrant on system, minimum
pressure and flow for fire fighting purposes.
(B)          ROADS
(a) Objectives in the urban roads subsector are:
(i)   maximising the productivity of existing investments, and
improving transportation sp'-vices for the urban population by
rehabilitation of existing heavily trafficked routes where it
is economic to do so;
(ii)   improving transportation services to important areas of
productive" economic activity (e.g. CBD's, markets, industrial
areas, etc.) by rehabilitating important existing roads;



- 165 -                       Annex I8
Page 10 of 21
Attachment
(iii)   relieving congestion by rehabilitating existing heavily
trafficked routes or by developing/rehabilitating by-pass
roads;
(iv)   facilitating orderly urban growth by developinglimproving
strategic sections of the urban road network; and
(v)   strengthening institutional capacity to plan efficiently,
manage finance, maintain and extend existing networks and
services, and to cope with increasing demand through
appropriate technical assistance and training.
(b) Projects Selection and Appraisal Criteria for Urban Road Projects
are:
ti)   potential for coping with present demand and meeting future
demand as established by traffic surveys and projections;
(ii)   potential for improving access to important areas of
productive economic activity (e.g. CBD's markets, industrial
areas, etc.) and to areas housing a high percentage of the
urban population;
(iii)   potential for improving vehicular flow and reducing
bottlenecks in the road network; and
(iv)   potential for reducing vehicle operating cost.
(c) Technical Design and Evaluation Checklistt
Road design standards will vary considerably both within and
between Local Authorities. However, the following minimum data must be
collected and evaluated, and should form the basis for road designs which
are of an appropriate standard considering the relative level of
development of the Local Authority 0-e volume of traffic to be
accommodated and the national stane  is and practices.
(i)   density of paved and unpaved road network per unit area
(meters per hectare) or per unit number of inhabitants
(kilcmeters per 10,000 inhabitants);
(ii)   minimum and maximum design speeds for arterials, secondary and
tertiary roads;
(iii)   minimum and maximum curve radius for each category of road;
(iv)   maximum slopes for each category of road;
(v)   minimum and maximum widths of roads, individual lanes, paved
areas for each category of road;
(vi)   minimum widths of sidewalks (paved and uipaved) for each
cateaorv of road;



- 166 -                        Annex 18
Page 11 of 21
Attachment
(vii)   minimum and maximum design loads for roads, bridges, culverts
and precast drain covers;
(viii)   maximum future, average and peak traffic volumes:
(ix)   standard road capacities for roads of different available
widths, numbers of lanes and average traffic speeds; and
(x)   details of road structure, such as sub-base, base course and
wearing course (materials and thickness).
(C)          DRAINAGE
(a) Objectives of the drainage subsector are:
(i)   relieving the incidence of flood damage to roads, property and
to economic activity, relieving road congestions due to
flooding, and improving environmental condition by
rehabilitating/developing/improving existing primary,
secondary and tertiary systems; and
(ii)   strengthening institutional capacity to efficiently plan,
manage, finance, maintain and extend existing systems and
networks through appropriate technical assistance and
training.
(b) Project Selection & Appraisal Criteria for Drainage Projects are:
(i)   potential for preventing damage to roads, property and
economic activity;
(ii)   potential for relieving congestion due to flooding;
(iii)   potential for reducing the incidence of disease and other
public health hazards and nuisances;
(iv)   potential for increased property values as a result of
improved drainage; and
(v)   potential for increasing the availability of land for
residential, commercial or industrial usage.
(c) Technical Design & Evaluation Checklist:
The following data should be collected and assessed and form the
basis for appropriate standards, considering the level of development of
the Local Authority and the national standards and practice.
(i)   flood return period for the design of primary, secondary and
tertiary drains;
(ii)   rainfall intensity - duration - frequency curve for the
r14 t4e. nn -



- 167 -                       Annex 18
Page 12 of 21
Attachment
(iii)   calculation method for flood discharges (rational or modified
rational formula, time of concentration, storage coefficient).
(iv)   run-off coefficients for different surface categories (rural,
light, heavy built-up, paved areas, roads, etc);
(v)   minWium and maximum flow velocities in drains, considering
factors of self-cleansing and safety;
(vi)   roughness coefficient of drain surfaces;
(vii)   maximum depth of drains (considering need for fences and
barriers);
(viii)   minimum freeboard of drains;
(ix)   type of drains (concrete limit, precast sections, earthlined);
and
(x)   minimum size of closed conduits (culverts) for cleansing
access.
(D)          WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL (SANITATION)
(a) Objectives of the wastewater collection and disposal of sanitation
subsector are:
(i)   improving domestic hygiene, reducing the incidence of
infectious disease, and reducing environmental pollution
through the construction/rehabilitation of sewerage and sewage
treatment systems or communal or individual toilet/disposal
facilities in residential areas, and in strategic public areas
such as markets, bus terminals; and
(ii)   strengthening institutional capacity to efficientlr plan,
manage, finance, maintain, and improve existing s)stems of
collection, treatment and disposal through appropriate
technical assistance and training.
(b) Project Selection & Appraisal Criteria for sanitation projects are:
(i)   extent of effective demand from domestic, commercial,
industrial and institutional populations as evidenced by
overcrowding of existing facilities and/or by household
income, expenditure and affordability surveys; and
(ii)   potential for improving domestic hygiene and reducing the
incidence of infectious disease.
(c) Technical Design and Evaluation Checklist:



Annex 18
-168 -                       Page 13 of 21
Attachment
Dependant on existing arrangements, residential densities, subsoil
conditions, estimated costs and standards and practices of those Local
Authorities responsible for public health and environment, sanitation
projects would normally involve the provision or expansion of piped
waterborne sewerage systems discharging to oxidation ponds or individual or
blocks of toilets discharging to septic tanks or other appropriate disposal
means.
(i)   daily per capita waste generation, including estimate of
percentage of potable water to waste and peak factors;
(ii)   percentage of population being served at different service
levels (i.e. to sewer, to septic tank, other);
(iii)   densities of development;
(iv)   topography and subsoil conditions;
(v)   institutional, industrial and commercial discharges;
(vi)   sewage strengths and composition;
(vii)   minimum and maximum flow velocities (gradients) of pipe;
(viii)   minimum size (diameter) of pipes;
(ix)   minimum standards of pipe materials;
(x)   minimum standards of pipe materials;
(xi)   maximum spacing of manholes (rodding eyes);
(xii)   house connection arrangements;
(xiii)   minimum level of treatment;
(xiv)   discharge point/usage of treated effluent for individual
systems;
(xv)   number of inhabitants per latrine;
(xvi)   area served by public latrine;
(xvii) maximum walking distance to public latrine;
(xviii)   minimum design standards (size, material, distances to houses,
pit volume and dimensions, ventilation, etc.) of public
latrines;
(xix)   optimum number of individual units per latrine block;
(xx)   frequency of latrine emptying;



- 169 -                       Annex 18
Page 14 of 21
Attachment
(xxi)   minimu  capacity of vacuum tankers required for emptying; and
(xxii)   minimum standards for septic tanks (chamber volumes, tile
field lengths, soakway pit size, soil percolation rates, etc.)
(E)          SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
(a) Objectives of the solid waste subsector are:
(i)   maximizing the productivity of existing investments by
rehabilitating existing plant, collection vehicles, and other
equipment where it is econLomic to do so, and by establishing
cost effective systems of collection and disposal, maintenance
programming, inventory control, and procurement;
(ii)   improving collection services by more efficient planning of
collection routes, pick-up times, and allocation of collection
vehicles and equipment;
(iii)   reducing environmental pollution and drain maintenance
problems and improving public health by adopting more
efficient methods of collection and disposal;
(iv)   extending collection services to cover important unse-ved
residential areas, and to cover important unserved areas of
productive economic activity;
(v)   extending/improving collection services to cope with
increasing demand; and
(vi)   strengthening institutional capacity to efficiently plan,
manage, finance, maintain, and extend existing services to
cope with increasing demand through appropriate technical
assistance and training, and through improved billing and
collection of fees.
(b) Project Selection and Appraisal Criteria for Solid Waste Management
Projects are:
Ci)   extent of effective demand from domestic, commercial,
industrial and institutional populations by household income,
expenditure and affordability surveys;
(ii)   potential for improving domestic hygiene and reducing the
incidence of infectious disease;
(iii)   potential for reducing the incidence of disease and other
public health hazards and nuisances; and
(iv)   potential for private sector involvement in refuse collection.
(c) Technical Design and Evaluation Checklist:



Annex 18
- 170 -                       Page 15 of 21
Attachment
The following data should be collected and assessed and form the
basis for design standards which are appropriated to the level of
development of the Local Authority and, the standards and practices of
authorities responsible for solid waste man&gement.
(i)   per ca,'ita volume of refuse;
(ii)   unit weight of refuse;
(iii)   unit composition of refuse;
(iv)   compactability of refuse;
(v)   maximum capacity of refuse collection points (maximum walking
distance);
(vi)   number of inhabitants served per collection point;
Cvii)   volume of refuse generated per day;
(viii)   frequency of collection;
(ix)   number and capacity of operational collection vehicles;
'x)   number and capacity of collection vehicles potentially
available for service (i.e. fleet size and capacity,
distinguishing potentially operational from those beyond
repair);
(xi)   landfill site capacity, and minimum and maximum lifetime;
(xii)   minimum environmental standards for landfill operation
(groundwater protection, air pollution, etc.)
(F)          STREETLIGHTING
(a) Objectives of the streetlighting subsectors are:
(i)   maximising the productivity of existing investments by
rehabilitating existing poles, lights and service cables where
it is economic to do so, and by establishing a cost effective
program of on-going maintenance, inventory control, and
procurement;
(ii)   improving urban safety, productivity, and convenience by
extending street lighting to cover important urban population
areas, and important unserved areas of productive economic
activity; and
(iii)   strengthening institutional capacity to efficiently plan,
manage, finance, maintain and extend existing networks, and to
cope with increasing demand through appropriate technical
assistance and training.



-171 -                       Annex 18
Page 16 of 21
Attachment
(b) Project Selection and Appraisal Criteria for Streetlighting
Projects are:
ti)   extent of effective demand from domestic, commercial,
industrial and institutional populations as evidenced by
surveys indicating a willingness and capacity to pay for
extended or improved service.
(ii)   potential for benefitting a significant percentage of the
urban poor;
(iii)   potential for yielding:  ERRs significantly in excess of the
cost of funds; high benefit cost ratios; or effectiveness cost
ratios; and
(iv)   feasibility of implementation (planning, design, contract
documentation, construction, supervision and maintenance) by
the public and private sectors.
(c) Technical Design and Evaluation Checklist:
The following data must be collected and assessed and form the
basis for design standards which are appropriate to the level of
development of the Local Authority and the standards and practices of
authorities responsible fcr street lighting.
(i)    location/spacing standards (i.e. whether on either or both
sides of road and spacing of poles);
(ii)   class/type and condition of road;
(iii)   current measures for streetlighting (types of poles, lanterns,
etc.); and
(iv)   existing capacity for power supply at the local level by ZESA.
!b          7.           OBJECTIVES AND GUIDELINES FOR FINANCIAL APPRAISAL OF PROJECTS
(A)          OBJECTIVES
(a)   sufficient funds are available on a timely basis to meet the
costs specified from the technical appraisal;
(b)   that the proposed level of spending produces an acceptable
rate or return;
(c)   that the resulting sale price, fees or charges are affordable
to the intended beneficiaries; and
(d)   that the required financial returns are achievable given
changes in assumptions on critical variables, namely costs and
timing.



- 172 -                        Annex 18
Page 17 of 21
Attachment
(B)          GUIDELINES
(a) Cost Identification
(i)   The costs to be included in each project will consist of
*   cost of land acquisition.  Lard will be either purchased or
transferred to the project at market price or at a value
determined by the Borrower. Costs will include legal and
survey fees and associated administrative expenses
* cost of infrastructure including off site costs, site
reticulation costs and land reclamatiGn
* on plot development costs
* cost of planning, design and supervision of contracts
* operational costs including interest during construction
* contingencies for physical and price changes
(ii)   Costs will be classified into capital and revenue.  Capital
costs are those costs incurred for the construction of an
asset whereas revenue costs are incurred:
*   to pay interest on borrowings; and
* to operate and maintain the asset after construction.
(b) Affordability
The revenue costs of the investment program will be met by the
Local Authority from its annual revenue budget. Unless the project is able
to become self financing immediately, an additional cost burden will be
imposed on the Local Authority. These additional costs will have to be
funded from the sale proceeds, or increases in taxes, fees and charges.
The financial appraisal must include a preliminary assessment of
how much the beneficiary, consumer or community is able to afford over and
above their present financial commitment to the Local Authority. In making
this assessment, judgements will have to be made on how the project costs
(both capital and revenue) are to be allocated and what mechanisms will be
adopted to achieve cost recovery. Project benefits accrue to different
groups of beneficiaries from whom it is legitimate to require payment to



- 173 -                         Annex 18
Page 15 of 21
Attachment
recover costs. A simple general rule is that project costs which are
specific to a beneficiary should be al ocated to and recovered from the
direct beneficiary. Project costs which result in benefits shared by the
wider community should be recovered from them usually in the form of the
prevailing taxes, fees or charges.
The charging base will vary according to the type of service being
provided, the policy of the Borrower and the preference of local
Authorities. However, irrespective of the cost recovery option adopted,
the financial appraisal must consider the affordable level of payments by
the target group of beneficiaries. It will be necessary to calculate the
available household income either from published statistical data or by
carrying out a household survey. It is normal practice for government to
stipulate the maximum per_entage of disposable household income which is
"allowable- to meet Local Authority charges. For example the norm for
housing rents and service charges is 25Z of income.
If the assessment of affordability indicates that the target group
Falls outside the 'allowable" norm then the options are to redesign the
project and lower the cost or look to alternative sources for possible
subsidies or funding.
(c) Cash Flow Analysis
The impact of the project costs on the Local Authorities' funding
requirements will need to be assessed through the production of a detailed
Cash Flow Statement.  This Statement will detail the inflow and outflow of
cash for each year over the expected construction period and life of the
asset. The order of items to be classified should be as follows:-
(i) Sources:
loans
grants
reserves
income from taxes, fees and charges
(ii) Application/Usess
land acquisition and reclamation
construction costs
design and supervision costs
administration and overhead costs
loan repayments
working capital
It is probable that the analysis will reveal a significant funding
gap unless a Local Authority's tariffs and charges are raised specifically
to provide the necessary funding. At this stage the options for price
increases will need to be quantified and preferred options identified for
inclusion in the financial appraisal. The implementation of these proposed
tariff changes should be regarded as an essential prerequisite of project
approval.



- 174 -                       Annex 18
Page 19 of 21
Attachment
(d) Impact on the Local Authority's Revenue Budget
Most of the Local Authority capital investment will not in itself
generate sufficient additional income to meet the recurrent revenue cost of
financing loan charges and operating the asset. Therefore, the additional
income will have to be derived from alternative existing sources of funds
unless the council decides, by default, to permit funding deficits to be
incurred.  In terms of prudent financial management, all additional costs
should be funded from increased revenues derived f-om the imposition of
higher taxes, fees or charges. Specifically this will involve the Local
Authority in estimating the cost of the following:-                                          t
(i) the loan charges; and
(ii) additional staffing and running costs.
These additional costs may be reduced by any incremental revenue
generated by the project, as for example, the increased sales of water
supplied as a result of water supply project. The final selection of an
increase to apply will rest with the discretion af the Local Authority.
Affecting the selection will include such factors as the possible yield
from the tariff or tax change, administrative and legal complexity, the
requirement for the Borrower's approval and the willingness of the
community to pay.
Ce) Internal Rate of Return
For those projects which generate surpluses (or positive cash
flows) it is desirable to calculate the internal rate of return. These
projects will tend to be of a commercial or income generating nature rather
than of a social/welfare nature. The internal rate of return should equal
or exceed the current cost of capital to the Local Authority.
(f) Sensitivity Analysis
The projected cash flow statement and internal rate of return
calculation is based on a series of assumptions ranging from the phasing of
construction costs to the realisation of funds. Such assumptions are
naturally based or. the best information available at the time of the
analyses.
Some of the assumptions made may be critical to the long term
viability of the project. Therefore, the effect of possible changes in
those assumptions should be tested and their impact on the cash flow
demonstrated.
8.       OBJECTIVES AND GUIDELINES FOR THE INSTITUTIONAL APPRAISAL OF
PROJECTS
(A)      OBJECTIVES
In addition to completing technical and financial appraisals of
projects, it is necessary to assess the capability of a Local Authority to
implenant the project and to manage the asset after its construction.
Specifically, the two factors to be assessed are as followst-



-175 -                         Annex 18
Page 20 of 21
Attachment
(a) the quantity and quality of managerial and technical skills;
and
(b) the adequacy of the systems and procedures for the
utilisation and maintenance of the asset.
The assessment will be of a qualitative nature and will depend
upon the availability of sufficiently skilled and experienced evaluators.
To a large extent the qualitative assessment will be based upon the Local
Authority's previous success or failure in managing proiects of a similar
nature and upon the availability of consultancy assistance.
Although this assessment may not be capable of such precise
definition as the technical and financial appraisals, it is essential that
there are the r.cessary management skills in place to ensure that the
maximum benefit 7U derived from the investment.  The investment will be
justified financ.ally on the assumption of a specified operating life.  If,
due to inadequate maintenance procedures, or insufficient supervision, the
equipment breaks down, then the financial viability is undermined.
(B)      ASSESSMENT OF MANAGERIAL AND TECHNICAL CAPABILITIES
The technical skills required to implement the project will be
readily identifiable. The skills will be available in house or provided by
consultants. The assessment of managerial capabilities is more
problematical. One reliable indicator is the previous record of the Local
Authority in successfully implementing and maintaining similar projects.
Any proposal for large investments involving new technical skills should be
closely appraised.
For major infrastructure projects such as water treatment plants,
sewage treatment plants, pipeliaes, major roads and bridges, the need for a
professionally qualified and suitably experienced engineer (10 year
experience since qualification in the appropriate or related sector) to be
responRible for the construction of the investment would be a minimum
requirement. Depending on the size of the proposed investment, it would
also be necessary for the superintending engineer to have adequate support
staff (e.g. a graduate engineer and experienced works supervisor as a
minimum). For investments in excess of about Z$5 million, two qualified
engineers would need to be involved in the implementation of the
investment. If such skills are not available within the implementing
agency for full time involvement on the project, the agency would need to
demonstrate how such skills would be acquired and paid for (e.g. engagement
of consultants). Where specialist works (e.g. structural, electrical and
mechanical engineering) are necessary, the appraisal would include a review
of how such skills may to be provided. Qualified and experienced engineers
in the respective disciplines would again be required to take
responsilbility for implementation of major projects (e.g. >Z$1.5 million).
Where the Local Authority proposes to carry out a project by
direct labour, the qualification, experience, skill levels and numbers of
Local Authority personnel would be reviewed, as well as available plant,
equipment, vehicles and systems (see below) to insure that they are
adequate to carry out the works to the required values in the time



- 176 -                        Annex 18
Page 21 of 21
Attachment
For projects which would add major assets to the Local Authority's
inventory (e.g. treatment plants), the appraisal would review proposals for
staffing, equipment and annual recurrent budget allocation - not to be less
than 12 per annum of capital value to ensure such assets can, in the
future, be adequately maintained.
(C)      ASSESSMENT OF SYSTEMS AND PROCEDURES
It is important that the managerial and technical skills be
founded upon well-established and documented syetems and procedures within
the Local Authority. There should be clear prozedures and arrangements for
the planning. control and reporting of activities.
The tendering procedures for contracts must be sufficiently
detailed to provide for a secure and impartial selection of contractors.
These procedures should be set out in the Local Authority's published
regulations.
It is essential that there are project costing systems in use by
the Local Authority's under the supervision of an experienced finance
manager/accountant. For contracts greater than Z35.0 million, a full time
bookkeeper/cost clerk should be employed. Accounting records need to be
maintained on an up to date basis so that significant variations in project
costs are reported to senior management for corrective action to be taken.
Project costs should be reported on a monthly basis. Also it is desirable
that there be an independent check of contract payments, preferably by an
auditor, prior to the payment being made. All contracts greater than Z$l.O
million should be subject to an audit and all claims under a contract
should be scrutinised independently from the supervising engineer.
For example, in the maintenance of plant and equipment, there
should be satisfactory procedures for determining servicing intervals and
standards for defining, supervising and recording the work carried out, for
reporting defects and for monitoring costs.
In carrying out an appraisal, there should be sufficient
confidence in the existing systems for the effective control and use of the
proposed investment. If weaknesses are identified at the appraisal stage,
then consultancy assistance or advice should be sought by the Local
Authority to improve its ability to derive the intended long term benefits
from the investment.



- 177 -                          Annex 19
Pag 1 of 1
ZIMBAS'1E
URMM SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Format for Addition.l Data to be Ued in Evaluatino
PSIP Housing Project Pro;osa"s
Town Name:                                     Project Site:
Site Area
Council land Yes/No
Approved layout Yes/No
Stands surveyed Yes/No
No. of Stands:                                  Average size:
No. of Stands:                                  Averagoe size_
No. of Stands:                                  Average size:
Preliminary engineering design finished  Yes/No by council/consultant
Detailed engineering design finished      Yes/No by council/consu crart
On-site Infrastructure
Roads :      Tota I      S_               Avorage cost/stond t
Water :      Total       S                Average cost/stand S-
Sewerage     Total       S                Average cost/stand S-
Towerlight : Total       S                Avoroge cost/stand S
Primary Infrastructure/Reouirmnta
Roads         Total SI n GOLF submission   Yes/No
Water :       Total S              In GOLF submission   Yes/No
Sewerage      Total  S             In GOLF submission   Yes/No
Sulk electricity supply availabl-  to site  Yes/No
Comunity facilities:
Primary schools to be provided          Yes/no     In GDLF submission  Yes/No
Secondary schools to be provided       Yos/no
Other facilities to be provided        Yes/no
Waiting List: (3 O                 *   40                (Month/Year):
Imslemmntation modes
Component     Detailed design      Supervision           Construction by
Roads                                       _                  _
Water                                            _
Sewerage 
Community
faci Iities
o Fill in Council/Consultant/or Criteria.
Soureo: Sank Mission.



Annex 20
zIe3AtE
lRUN SECTOR AND REOXONAL DeVELOPMEW PROJECT
Oroanization Chart for Harr.e Cit_ Couneil
Maybor 
City Council
Ci ty                     Director               Medical Officer                 Citiorector of                                        Cty
Town Clerk                 Treosurer                    of Works                  Health               Electrical   glnser        CoamEnity Servica ea  reting
tangeasnt                  Computer                        rfi                        elhDitiuinLclCoenat9.   n
ServicesCrou        Operatione                            Enforcement                Ins.sctrate        |       Dvlirin                  A      Ai                    Srts
CentralI
Vauai=                      Stores                       Hi ,yeMeicpa                                         Conwumer                     SoclialPrdc
end State                                                 and  |ork;                 HOspita.ls                  Divinlron                  Services                   Control
Municipal                                                Parks end                 MuniciPal                    PwrValuation
Security Unit    1 -               [                  1      eAmnitie                  C l nics                  Station                   and States
Audit
0D
ire & Ambulnce                                                City
Service                    Coatin                        ArCh i tect              Liceneing
Con ity       _                                          Design and
Staff                  Rates/Rents                    Construction
Planninealnd
Dsvsl opment



Annex 20
Chart 20.2
Organization Chart for Bindura Town Council
Rural Council
Bindura
Town Board
.~~                ~     ~~~~~ ll Committees    l
Chief Executive
Officer
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Schools                  Health                   Roads                   Finance            Administration               Housing
Treasurer
I                                         qz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Accountant
Credit              Welfare Mgt.
Bookkeeper             Controller             Controller



Annex 20
Chart 20.3
Organization of Ministry of Local Government
Rural and Urban Development
minister
Permanent
Secretary
Urban Development
Corporation        0
District          Department of       Department of         Department   1  Dept. of Personnel       Urban and
Development Fund    Rural De-elopment   Physical Planning       of Finance   J   Admin. & Trmg.        Rural Councils
I     Urban      1
Transport Unit J



Annex 20
Chart 20.4
Organization of the Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
Minister
|Deputy Minister
Secretary
oenoral Administration & Finance       Housing  Office Administration             Professional Services                         Operations
(Dep. Sec.)                            ( tDsp. Sec.)         _1                (Dep. Sec.)            l                 t(Dep. Sec.)
Admlnistration
(Under Sec.)                Housing A State Offices        Housing            Dtirector           irector          Const. A Maint.  Conat.  Ma I nt.
(Under Sec.)         (Under Sec.)                    _   _                    |   Diroetor         Dtrctor
Financ
(Under Sc                                                                  Health and            Electrical
Urban | | Rural 11 Officos
Strategic Planning _o
(Under Sec.)                                                               Housing A              Structural
Community
Valuation
(Chief Val. Off.)                                                             Educatlon &            Mehanical
Defense
Internal Audit
(Princ. Exec. Off)                                                             Quantity                 Cii
Survey



- 182 -
ZIMBABWE                                                         Annex 21
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPME-NT PROJECT                                                 Page 1 of 1
RIWT FCR H        iUM @5DZ OeUEPET   tS
To:_________ Area:______  in. Yr___                 th:
Low-lncome Mortgagee - Incomes Below fl OZ;jenth
Month    Fin. Veer  Total -- ------- Outstandin Mont                   hs--     -
Allocation  Procasi:                               NO        No        No       1        2        8        4        a        46
Stands  wvilalb,o for llocttion                -
lta-r of p_.ple invited                        -        -_          
lhrer of pooptl oritntation                    -        --
Sta d I ocated
Cash Buyers:
Provinl Areemeat aigned                        --   -                 -
Outetending Sale Aremt                                  ------    --
Agreet of Sale siged                             -       _        
Ouetanding transfere                             -                
Transfers completed                            -        -
Lown Buyer (OS or't".):
Prov-ieonal Agreement signed
uttandng Sale Agrm                             -        -----    --
Agreemnt of Se signed                          -
Butatandin trendfer                            -        -                        -           --
Transfer completed                               -
Building Process:
Building Activity etarted                      -         --
Foundation completed                             _
Vell plate level cltsd                         -        _______   __
Roof comepted                                      -          -----   ---
Stands occupied-
ader ate lnes. Nortgage  ZS 650 - Z4 ICC
Allecstion* Prcs
Stend. available for allocetion                         - --
tiber of people invited
Number of peole orientation                    -
Stands *llocated
Coah Buyers:
Prowaioneal Agreement signed                             --
Outetending Selo Agreement                     ---- ------    ----
Agrement of Sale *igned                        --        _    _      __
Outetendlng trnd fre                           ----        -___-__------- --_------ --
Transfers completed                            --    -------
Local Buyore (U ttorti.):
Provisional Areement sined                     ---        ------
Butstanding Sele Agreement                     ----  ----            ---------
Agreemnt  f Sole signed                        ----   -_ -           __-----
Outstending transfers                          ___- ----- _____
Trafers rcompletd                              -        ---------   -----
uilding Proes
Bulding Activity started                       -
Foundetion completed                           ----     ---------   -----
Well plate level completed                     -----   ---------   --_
Roof completed                                          - --------   -----
Stand occupied                                 -----    ---------   -----
Sores Beat mission.



- 183 -
ZIMBABWE                                                       Annex 22
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                               Page I of I
awARM  FMR UrILTY SOVICE   WIN    N 0UY1L6
(Auguet 1988)
Total      Clean   iometic                                                                  D ;--------------Hi  aty- --  ------L   anity -----
Water Treat      Water Water Con-       Water   Sever  Ref-ue Supple.   Total   Water   Soete  *fuee    Total
Capacity    Storage  suption          15 nS                                      80 as
1 LO D         L  Available          (1)                                        (21)
City Council.:
Harare old          477         e0o        J00        8.43    4.70    1.80    6.78    16.41   10.00    8.00    2.80   17.80
Msrere new          704        1OOS        a2m (a)   4.08    4.98    2.28    9.49   20.75    16.46    8.0    8.88o   24.81
Bulwasyo old        268    S     78        170 (b)   6.71                      12.06    18.77    14.40    9.80     1.48   28.65
bulstyo new         288         408        2          7.89                     14.06    21.68   16.87   11.84    2.11   28.62
Oaeru old            89          64        180 (e)   7.68    8.00    2.90   20.00   88.85   11.20    5.00    2.80   20.60
Oeeru new            60          64        240
Muter. old           61          aS        2eo
Mutere new           61          74        250        2.85     2.76    2.50    14.00   21.80    8.45               2.60    8.98 (8)
Municipal Council&:
Kado_ old            87          40        140 (d)
Kadowa new           87          41        185        8.52    4.01)    .68    8.75   21.95    14.42    9.00    8.80   81.92
Kackce old           90          T         640 (a)   8.45    4.50    1.40    7.80   16.i6        8.25    9.50    2.76   20.80
Keliwreew            90           t        410
Cheutu old           12          19        808        8.17    2.8D     1.70    6.00   18.17    6.62    4.00        1.80    14.02
Cieutu nn-           12          S         240        5.22    6.00    2.40    9.00   22.62    8.S2    6.00    2.40    16.92
Moavingo old         28          25        870        8.00    1.S0    1.00   10.7S    16.25   10.00    1.90    2.00    18.90
ama ingo new        25           Be        290
Chinoyi old          19          25         NO0       2.50    8.25    8.25               9.00    8.85    6.00    6.00    17.85
Cainoye new          19          40        240
murondera old        14          17        280        6.7S    8.75    8.6t    5.00   18.1S   11.OD        7.60    8.l6    22.18
Marondere new        18          24        280 (f)
Radcliffe old    See Kwekee                           2.50    1.00    1.00    8.88    12.65    6.80    7.80    8.80    17.50
Radelffe new    See Keekee                            4.80    2.00    8.80    9.00    19.00    9.00    9.00        4.80   22.80
Town Council-:
Shurungai old         2          2         14
Sihurungi  now        2           8        178        8.68    4.50    8.00    5.80   28.68    16.8J                5.00   21.6S
Vic Fe ll old  Obtained from   .                      6.00    0.82    0.89    7.54   14.25   10.00                         10.00
Vic Fells new  Obtained from  IRD                     8.00    1.12    1.71   26.68    87.89    19.00                       19.00 (8)
Kariba old            7           8        2i0        8.00     1.6D    1.00   10.78    16.25   10.00    1.80       2.80    14.60
Kariba now            7          10        1tO
Ibange old    ObtAined from .                         5.00    S.80    2.00   20.68   81.25    8.00    7.00    6.00   17.00
Macnre new    Obtsifed fro  .-D
Chitungaiao old      80           4         80 (a)   8.00    2.10    2.10    8.20    12.46
ChItungelee now                   5        120 (g)   4.40    8.68    2.56    8.82    19.45
Rural Courci Is:
Bindura old           9          10        225        8.25                     20.00   25.25   10.60               8.00   16.80
Sindurm new           9          10        180
Ruape old             6           a        SO
Rueape new            9          is        80         8.45     1.7S    1.78    8.60    12.45    6.90    8.00    2.60    16.40
Zvihavane old        19         7         8SO (h)   2.e4    2.00    1.60    0.60    6.94    O.64         4.60    8.00   17.14
Zvlehaovan  new       19          7        2B0
Owand* old    Obtained from HEM                       7.80    2.50    2.00    4.00   16.00   16.1A    7.60                 22.80 (8)
aande new     Obtained from    D
(1)  Water conuption Is based on average of 80 liit/cp/day, (average household *;au  6 pare.)
(2)  Water con_ption is bamd on average of 180 lit/cep/day. (Cverage lsiualold aize 6 per..)
(3)  Sever and/or refue charges in cltain Ict-danalty area are recovarad via rates.
(4)  In addition to utility charges. rates are levied In lom-denaity areas.
Note: Nae (1994) eater coneupstion figureo. esumd g_nrally at liti per annue.
Lnea  and nondotic water eauw_d generally at 185 end 20t tbere specific figure. not knoen.
(e)  After Ilrare Water Supply Sche_. Citi-e  also serv- Cbitungwize. Mw storage figure doe. not incl. HfS.
(b)  Raw eatr pipolin  and puaping constraints reetrict treatment to 162 16D.
(c)  Pumping and pipelin o enatrainta restrict delIvory to 29 MD.
(d)  Raw water feeder and pueping arrang_ente restrict aupply to 22.5 MD or about 140 lcd.
(a)  Include Redceliff (prea.jnt delIvery to K1eke  is about 12 M0 average).
(f)  Achieved with i proved doming errangea_te.
(g)  Include part of HIrara.
(h)  Mine us"  pprox. 10 HLD.
Source: Urban Council-.



- 184 -
Annex 23
Page 1 of 1
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Recurrent Budget Surplus/Deficit in 21 Selected Councils
(Z$'OOO)
Council             1984/85    1985/86   1986/87   1987/88    1988/89
Bindura                 NA         (93)         (7)      423        318
Bulawayo            (5,181)    (9,548)    (1,035)    1,330          884
Chegutu                 49           8        (105)      164        270
Chinoyi               (402)       (483)       (320)     (954)        NA
Chitungwiza         (1,989)    (2,106)    (2,808)   (2,918)          NA
Gwanda                  79          24         (43)     (180)        NA
Gweru                 (500)    (3,210)    (1,293)        690         NA
Harare              (4,200)         NA     (1,200)    4,600       7,500
lwange                 (51)        (20)       (192)       NA         NA
Kadoma                  NA      (1,423)       (978)     (883)        37
Kariba                (149)       (246)        NA         NA         NA
Kvekwe                  NA          NA         NA         57        215
Harondera              136          29        207         50         17
Hasvingo              (406)       (228)       (224)      (13)       (20)
Mutare                  NA          NA        (649)     (738)   (1,157)
Nyanga                  NA          87        100         (8)       (40)
Redcliff               (44)        (16)        NA       (177)      (279)
Rusape                  NA          NA         (54)      (67)       (60)
Shurugwi                NA          NA         NA          6         NA
Victoria Falls         (47)       (237)       (215)      448         NA
Zvishavane              NA          NA         NA       (202)       179
Source: Town Councils and Bank Mission.



- 185 -
Ann-x 24
Page 1 of 1
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mean. of Recov-rino Investment Costs
Rspresented by Voriouo Project Componentc
Prolet Component                                  Means of Cost Recov-ry
A   Land Ac ulsition and
Surveying
Private land                                  Plot sales
Public lund                                   Supplementary charges
B. Primary Infrastructure
Roads and storm water drainage                Rates/Supplementary charges
Water supply                                  Tariff for water
Sewerage                                      Tariff for *swerae
Electricity                                   Tariff for *lectricity
Street lighting                               Rates/Supplementary charges
C. On-Site Infrastructure
Cadastral survey/site prep.                   Plot sales
Road and storm water drainage                 Plot sales
Water supply                                  Tariff for water and connection
charge
Sewerage                                      Teriff for sewerage and connection
charge
Electricity                                   Tariff for electricity and
connection charge
Street lighting                               Plot sales/Supplementary eharge/
Tariff
Professional fes                              Plot salos
D   House Construction                            Mortgage payments
E.  Community Facilities
Primary schools                               Rates/Supplementary chargS'
Secondary schools                             Rates/Supplementary charges
Health centers                                Rates/Supplementary charges
Administrative offices                        Rates/Supplementary charges
Markets/tolete                                Market fees/Rates/Supplementary
charges
F. Services
Refuse collection                             Refuse charge
Note: Professional fees may Include cost of building specialists or building
M-pectors.
Source: Bank Mission.



Annex 25
- 186 -                     Page 1of 1
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Data and Assumption Underlying Calculation
of ERR for Housing Program
1. Economic Costs (Z$ million)
Plus      Less       Total     Allocated
Base     Physical      Tax     Economic   Economic
Cost  Contingencies Element       Cost       Cost
On-site Infrastructure      148.93    14.89        9.34     154.48      154.48
Primary Infrastructure      134.83    13.48        8.45     139.86       41.96
Electricity Facilities       38.76      3.88       2.43      40.21       12.06
Land                          1.75       .19       0          1.94      _ 1.94
Total Economic Cost for Housing Infrastructure                      210.44
House Construction Cost                                                 315.00
(45,000 houses @ average Z$ 7,000
house construction cost).
2. Investment Pattern
1990      1991        1992    1993         1994
On-site Infrastructure (Z) 10          17          21        26         26
Primary Infrastructure (Z) 20          20          20        20         20
Electricity Facilities (2) 10          17          21        26         26
Land (over 30 years)   (Z)  3           3           3         3          3
House Construction      (Z) 10         16          22        25         27
3. Estimated Number of Houses to be Completed
Beginning                  No. of               No. of
of Year                   Houses             Rental Units
1
2                       4,500                 13,500
3                       9,000                 27,000
4                      22,500                 67,000
5                      36,000                108,000
6                      45,000                135,000
4. Rental Values (Z$)
Per Month            Per Year
Basic house                            75                  900
Rooms for lodgers
one lodger                          40                  480
3 lodgers                          120                1,440
Source: Bank Mission.



-187 -                     Annex 26
Page 1 of 1
ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project-Related Documents in Project File
1.   Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC); 'Low Cost Housing Project:
Evaluation Report'. June, 1988.
2.   ORT Consultants: Preliminary Local Authority Training Needs Assessment
Study. June, 1988.
3.   Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA); Terms of Reference
for Local Authority Training Needs Assessment Study. February, 1989.
4.   LOGION, Consultants; First Urban Transport PRoject - Report. October,
1988.
5.   Urban Development Corporation (UDC); Bank evaluation mission - 'Aide
Memoire', July 22-25, 1986.
6.  Bank Preparation Mission 'Aide Memoire', November 17, 1987.
7.   Bank Pre-Appraisal Mission *Aide Memoire', March 31, 1988.
8.   Bank Appraisal Mission 'Aide Memoirew, October 5, 1988.
9.   Urban Public Transport, Bank 'Aide Memoire'; Mission of March, 1988.
10. Marja C. Hoek-Smit, Consultant; 'Housing Preferences and Potential
Demand of Low-Income Households in Zimbabwe". 1982.



IBRD 21400R
ZIMA    I A                                                                    2e B I A
t~MBASWEt     <-3
BOTSWANA 
BSwb  ;t/   S O ti  f U T H>
soul                                                                                                                                                             \$                                                    'O;,
AFRICA                                                                                                                                                                                                             T
I                                     .
PROJECT f~~r io  s  -0                                                                      C     t2(VWE) 
Locc,tion  of~  2rb2n Centers                                   2l                                              SOUTH             AFRICA                 31'                       22' ~(                     3
ZIMBABWreos for h e Regionral Lbv losament Prosirsm   S   <   \                    A    ;wo  o    zJ                         \        <       X             4,,                                    IA |
,   PRilot   Ars                             Pro inr th.ie Re l o     D wc,,IrI   PE                         r                   )g*                               b/rs.r
O   elertbe   Town   RVile.ged  fo,   Urd.r th     N.1\                                                                                                                       /       u -r
13     Eligible   T -p E e t.   bS Ri- e   fo.                                                                              \mW r   U , e   fh   P .1 -1 'h f                                       t< f
Co- .[ * rRni eRJL.Mmdndge, m leebebr en e n\_J C|uzul Dff>2
0 M010 5   I*OETR St.f.t R . e.30dr,> 
SOndorXMyL5   Stt" R ood.r
R_25-.d                                            ProW2r BoXwd-29 OUT,ARC 1i 32 m 3
Moi. Ai,p.,h  I'lle-ilfwal SoI,,Idart- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ fiY  Et



