Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 24423
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3079-ZIM)
RURAL DISTRICT COUNCIL PILOT CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT N019-ZIM)
June 25, 2002
Secior and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar (Z$)
Average for:     US$1.00 = Z$:    Average for:     US$1.00 =z$:
1989              2.1             1996             12.1
1990              2.5             1997             10.0
1991              3.1             1998             23.7
1992              5.0             1999             38.3
1993              6.3             2000             44.4
1994              8.0             2001             55.5
1995              8.5
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARDC-Z         Association of Rural District Councils of Zimbabwe
CABS           Central African Building Society
CEO            Chief Executive Officer (of RDC)
CPI            Consumer Price Index
DDG            District Development Grant
DDL            District Development Loan
DFID           (UK) Department for Intemational Development
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
ESAP           Economic Structural Adjustment Program
FPP            Financial Performance Plan
GOZ            Government of Zimbabwe
HIV/AIDS       Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IMF            International Monetary Fund
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germnan technical assistance)
LG             Local Government
LGCDP          (proposed) Local Government Capital Development Project
MLGNH          Ministry of Local Govermnent and National Housing
MPCNH          Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
NORAD          Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
PCMU           Program Control and Management Unit (for Urban II - Ln3079)
PDSP           (DFID's) Pilot District Support Project
PPAR           (OED's) Project Perfomnance Assessment Report
RDC            Rural District Council
RDCCBP         Rural District Councils' Capacity Building Program
RDC Project    Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project (CN019)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA           Swedish International Development Agency
UCA-Z          Urban Councils Association of Zimbabwe
Urban II       Urban Sector and Regional Development Project (LN3079)
ZANU-PF        Zimbabwe African National Union - Patriotic Front (GOZ party)
ZIMPREST       Zimbabwe Programmne for Economic and Social Transformation
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
Director-General, Operations Evaluation                  Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department               Mr. Gregory Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                  Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                             Mr. Roy Gilbert



The World Bank
Wasihington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oflice of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                               June 25, 2002
MEMORANDUM TO TIHE EXECIJTIVE DIRECTORS AND THlE PRESIDENT
SUJBJECT:     Zimbabwe: Project Performance Assessment Report
Urban Sector and Regional Development Project (Ln 3079-ZIM)
Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project (Cr. N019-ZIM)
Attached is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department on these two projects. For the Urban Sector and Regional Development
Project (Urban II) the World Bank approved a loan of US$80.0 million on June 1, 1988. The loan
was closed on December 31, 1999, three years later than planned, when US$4.9 million
equivalent was cancelled. For the Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project (RDC
Project) the World Bank approved a credit of US$12.3 million equivalent on May 29, 1997. The
credit was closed on June 30, 2000 as planned, when US$8.2 million equivalent was cancelled.
Uirban II focused upon improving urban services and strengthening city governance, a classic
urban project design, but perhaps of limited relevance to Zimbabwe's exceptionally well served
and well-mnanaged cities. Still, the project did make useful investments in sites and services, basic
urban infrastructure and community health and education services in low-income areas. The
project's ambitious attempt to maximize private sector housing finance ultimately failed, as it was
grounded in a cursory and unrealistic appraisal of Zimbabwe's building societies, which funded
only 11 per cent of the US$242 million they were expected to disburse. Consequently, mortgage
loans became available to only a fraction of the low-income beneficiaries targeted. For these
reasons, quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. Project start-up was delayed for two years as
cilies prepared Financial Action Plans aimed at ensuring sustainable financial surpluses within
five years. ;Zimbabwe's high inflation undermines city finances and renders ineffective the
financial planning that Urban II encouraged.
The RDC Project aimed to develop the capacity of newly created RDCs to plan, implement and
manage essential services, a relevant goal for Zimbabwe's decentralization. It was not a pilot
operation in the sense of a test. The experimental work that led to this project had already been
done by the Pilot District Support Project (PDSP), financed eight years earlier by the UK
Department for International Development (DFID) in Zimbabwe's Midlands province. The RDC
Project was more like a sector or program loan that financed a two-year time slice of GOZ's five-
year Rural District Council Capacity Building Program (RDCCBP). The RDC Project used
District Development Grants (DDGs) to finance RDC investments in "essential" services that
were not defined by the project, however. Most investments, in the form of markets, bus stations,
sanitary blocks, bore-holes and field fencing, provided useful services to their communities, but
others-a new house for the local engineer, office space for ministries from Harare and a beer
hb11-were not so essential.
Weak implementation capacity meant that RDCs spent but a quarter of the DDG funding made
available to them. With an abundance of donor grant funding-from 15 different sources-RDCs
did not take up the project's District Development Loans (DDLs), which would have incurred



2
heavy debt service repayments. By project closing, only one DDL was awarded. The project's
quality at entry is rated modest. The umbrella RDCCBP program itself was shut-down
prematurely when Zimbabwe entered non-accrual status with the Bank in May 2000 and there
was no more Bank funding for it. This interruption left several RDC projects unfinished. GOZ's
fast-track land reform in mid-2001 required significant RDC participation and additional
activities that swept aside the RDC Project's capacity building objectives, further undermining
the operation.
Urban H's overall outcome is rated moderately satisfactory. Efficiency in some project
achievements-reflected in a 24.3 percent ERR for infrastructure, for instance-helped
compensate project weaknesses in relevance and efficacy. Sustainability is rated likely given the
strong city government capacity and GOZ commitment to the project achievements. Institutional
development impact is rated only modest. City government capacity was already strong before
the project. Hence increases in municipalities' ability to use resources effectively were relatively
small. Bank performance is rated satisfactory, but marginally so, given the Bank's incomplete
analysis of the unusually high urban service provision in Zimbabwe's cities and the workings of
the housing finance sector. Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, thanks to the strong
support to project implementation by the city authorities in particular.
The RDC Project's overall outcome is rated unsatisfactory as the project failed to meet its major
RDC capacity building objective and had only minor development benefits. Sustainability is rated
unlikely, since any benefits of the project are not resilient to GOZ's lack of commitment to the
project's original objectives. Institutional development impact is rated modest; to a limited
extent, RDCs can be expected to make more effective use of resources, once the land-reform
crisis is passed. Bank performance is rated satisfactory, for seizing an opportunity for extending
Bank support to decentralization in rural areas, to complement work already begun in the urban
sector. Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory since GOZ actions failed to fully support
project implementation through to completion and for having unnecessarily sacrificed the project
objectives of improving RDC service delivery during the implementation of the fast-track land-
reform program.
The performance of both projects was strongly affected by Zimbabwe's historic distortions of
spatial segregation along racial lines in both urban and rural areas, and GOZ's fast-track land-
reform efforts ostensibly designed to deal with them. A sudden shift of borrower policy like this
can undermine project results, as it sweeps aside a project's objectives and leaves efforts to
achieve them languishing. To achieve meaningful results for Zimbabwe's urban and rural poor,
issues and risks such as these will have to be addressed more openly and effectively in the future.
Experience with these projects confirms two OED lessons:
*  A one-size-fits-all approach to urban project design should give way to a design firmly
anchored to the particular conditions of a borrower's cities and urban development. In
Zimbabwe, these included an unusually high level of urban services, strong city management
and segregated spatial structure and housing market.
*  Project objective statements should clearly signal intended development results. These can
guide implementing agencies-the RDCs in Zimbabwe, for instance-in their choice of
relevant investments, as well as indicate the process improvements-such as better
accounting-they are expected to make.
Attachments



i
LOED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and Independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
inrovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
stjdies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and|augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OIED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPiAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the Borrower for review; the Borrowers' cornments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessmenl report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
cLirrent development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
gcals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings. High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficlency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustalnability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unisatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
U nsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the Borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.



fil
C'ontents
Pireface              ..................................... iii
1. Introduction ............................1
2. Project Design and Implementation ...........................2
3. Supporting Zimbabwe's Cities ...4........................4
4. Developing the Capacity of RDCs ............................7
5. Conclusions and Lessons ............................9
Bibliography ............................ 11
Annex A: Basic Data Sheet ............................                      12
This report was prepared by Roy Gilbert (Task Manager), who visited Zimbabwe in January-
February 2001. Walter Dingale helped assemble evaluation data. William B. Hurlbut edited the
[,port. Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.



iv
ZIMBABWE: URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3079-ZIM)
PRINCIPAL RATINGS
ICR                         ES                          PAR
Outcome                             Satisfactory                Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                         Likely                     Ukely                        Ukely
Institutbonal Development              High                     Substantial                   Modest
Bank Performance                    SaUsfactory                 Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                Satisfactory                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE
Task Manager                 Division Chief            Country Director
Appraisal                          Jeffrey Racki                Isaac Sam                Sven Sandstrom
Completion                         James Hicks                 Jeffrey Racki              Barbara Kafka
ZIMBABWE: RURAL DISTRICT COUNCIL PILOT CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT
N019-ZIM)
PRINCIPAL RATINGS
ICR                         ES                          PAR
Outcome                             Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                         Likely                     Unlikely                    Unlikely
Institutional Development              High                       Modest                      Modest
Bank Performance                    Satisfactory                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance               Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE
Task Manager                 Division Chief            Country Director
Appraisal                        James F. Hicks                Jeffrey Racki             Barabara Kafka
Completion                       James F. Hicks                Jeffrey Racki               Yaw Ansu



v
P'reface
Attached is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared by the Operations
Evaluationi Department on two projects in Zimbabwe. For the Urban Sector and Regional
Development Project (Ln 3079-ZIM)-called Urban II in this report-the World Bank approved
a loan in an amount of US$80.0 million on June 1, 1988. The loan was closed on December 31,
1999, three years later than planned, when US$4.9 million equivalent was cancelled. For the
Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project (CN019-ZIM)--called RDC Project
here-the World Bank approved a credit in an amount of US$12.3 million equivalent on May 29,
1997. The credit was closed on June 30, 2000 as planned, when US$8.2 million equivalent was
cancelled.
This report is based upon reviews of the Implementation Completion Reports (Report No. 20527,
June 23, 2000 for Urban II, and Report No. 21398, December 21, 2000 for the RDC Project), the
Scaff Appraisal Reports (Report No. 7619, May 8, 1989, for Urban II, and Report No. 16046,
Mlay 5, 1997 for RDC Project), legal documents, and project files and on discussions with Bank
staff involyed with the project. OED fielded a mission to Zimbabwe in January/February 2002 to
review project results. The mission visited central govemment departments and project agencies
in Harare, urban councils in Bulawayo, Victoria Falls, Mutare and Masvingo and rural district
councils in Bikita, Chimaninnani, Makoni, Manyeme, Marondera and Umguza. The assessment
mission appreciates the courtesies and attention given by interlocutors in Zimbabwe-
govemment officials, local govemment representatives, donors, and other stakeholders-as well
as the logistical assistance provided by the Bank's country office in Harare.
Following1standard procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the relevant govemment
oifficials and agencies concemed for their review but no comments were received.



1. Introduction
1.1    Both the Urban Sector and Regional Development Project (Ln3079)-"Urban II" and
tDe Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project (CNO I 9)-"RDC Project" were
part of GOZ's decentralization program aimed at transferring local development and service
responsibilities to elected city, town and village administrations throughout Zimbabwe. Local
governments for the country's 21 larger cities supported by Urban H have been in place since
independence in 1980 and before, but the 57 smaller rural district councils (RDCs) targeted by the
RDC Project were new, in operation only since 1996 when the 1988 Rural District Councils Act
was effectively implemented. Both cities and rural areas in Zimbabwe, however, shared a legacy
of spatial segregation along racial lines-highlighted, for cities, in the Bank's Urban Sector
Review (World Bank 1985)-that was to affect project performance. In cities the legacy was of
separate (wvhite) low-density neighborhoods and (African) high-density townships. In rural areas
(white) commercial farms and (African) communal areas also had been administered separately.
1.2    About one-third of Zimbabwe's 12 million people lives in urban areas, where over half
the country's GDP is produced. Two-thirds live in the rural areas, where there is most poverty.
Together, the Urban II and RDC Projects were designed to provide assistance to nearly all of
Zimbabwe's 78 local government units, effectively making the two projects into a national
program. OED's assessment mission visited 11 cities and RDCs in January 2002 (see map).
ZAM_A      L,, _       OM 31&U  1.3  With unusually high
BW                                         AL 20E levels of basic urban
C0ED ASSESSMENT MISSION,.                                 services such as water
JANUARY 2002                  a                     :;> supply and sewerage and a
notable absence of large
urban slum settlements,
Stil. -  * .*.       Zimbabwe's cities were in
less need of assistance to
improve service levels than
their regional counterparts
(details Section 3). Stern
land use controls and speedy
slum clearance-past
instruments of spatial
BOTSWANAA                                              segregation-still prevent
illegal squatting today. One
result is a tight market for
,. 1  t   X  /  _  ,turban land and housing that
C=    Cities Visitd by OED     \             D            leads to severe
*   Rural DistiCt Caunls                    MOZAMBIQUE  overcrowding of the urban
o Urban C06nci
Nhu Co,at            ,                                  poor and slum development
Mairw Roads                                         on existing plots, a deficit
= nterniol Boundaries .t  aAX                      that does not show up in
l___________.________________________________ _ _', official statistics. These
plots are serviced no matter
how many poor people live on them. Additional shacks built on them go formally unrecognized.
As a result of past segregation, present city spatial structures-with very low densities near city
centers and high-density townships remote from them-are inefficient. They impose very high
infrastructure costs and prolong social exclusion.



2
1.4    Small towns and villages throughout the country grapple with segregation's rural legacy
that has assigned the majority of fertile agricultural land to white-owned commercial farms and
communal land-often more arid yet densely occupied-to African peasant farmers, 82 per cent
of whom lived in poverty in 1995/96. Before independence, local administration was segregated
too. Elected (white) district councils oversaw the commercial farming areas, while appointed
central government boards were in charge of the (African) communal areas. Today's RDCs are
responsible for both commercial and communal areas. Barely 10 years old, however, each tiny
RDC administration struggles to serve an average population of 140,000 across a jurisdiction that
typically covers 5,000 square kilometers. Today, their limited capacity is further stretched by
additional responsibilities for administering resettlement in Zimbabwe's fast-track land reform, a
new mandate that was not foreseen prior to the RDC Project.
2.     Project Design and Implementation
URBAN 1[
2.1    Primarily focused upon improving urban services and strengthening local governments,
Urban II ambitiously-but ultimately unsuccessfully-tried to reform Zimbabwe's housing
finance system and promote regional development too. Project emphasis upon providing basic
services-water, street paving and solid waste-to poor (high density) areas of cities and local
government capacity building was solidly founded in Bank urban development experience
elsewhere, but less relevant to Zimbabwe's urban areas, where almost all inhabitants already
lived on serviced lots. Bank support to help these cities diminish the inefficiency and social
exclusion costs of their segregated spatial structures might have been more relevant to meeting
the challenges they face. While project attention to housing finance was certainly appropriate,
given the severe shortage of good quality urban housing in Zimbabwe, the component would
ultimately fail (details: para. 3.7). The Bank's 1985 Urban Sector Review provided no
prescription for addressing housing finance in Zimbabwe, a topic omitted from the "Aggressive
Urban Development Strategy" proposed by the review (World Bank 1985, pp. 96-98). Project
support for regional development programs seemed an "add-in" to the main design. It, too, did
not get off the ground (details: para. 3.8). Taken together, the objectives of Urban II (Box I) were
modestly relevant to GOZ policies and Bank strategies for Zimbabwe. Given these shortcomings
in the approach and design, project quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory.
2.2    Project start-up was two years behind schedule. It had to wait for urban councils to
prepare Financial Performance Plans (FPPs)-aimed at producing budget surpluses within five
years-that qualified them for project funding. Zimbabwe's financial squeeze made it
increasingly difficult for GOZ to provide counterpart funding, especially as inflation eroded the
US dollar value of Zim$ funding. Private building societies-expected to fund more than half
project costs through mortgage lending-financed only 11 per cent by completion, undermining
the project's housing finance objective. At closing, the Bank financed 47 per cent of total costs,
up from the 17 per cent share foreseen at appraisal.



3
EDC PROJECT
2.3      Not a pilot in the sense of trial or test run,' this project was more like a sector or program
loan of US$19.8 million to finance the first two years of GOZ's five-year US$96.8 million Rural
Elistrict Councils' Capacity Building Prog-am (RDCCBP). Like a sector or program loan, the
RDC Project had the same objectives as the RDCCBP program that it was supporting. The
remaining, three years of RDCCBP investments were earmnarked for funding by an expected
follow-on Bank operation, the proposed Local Government Capital Development Project
(LGCDP). LGCDP's preparation was suspended together with other Bank lending, however,
vwhen Zimbabwe entered non-accrual status with the Bank in May 2000. Cofinancing by bilateral
donors-DFID, SIDA and the Netherlands government-continued into a third year, after which
they too suspended operations. RDCs therefore only got a fraction of the intended RDCCBP
support, severely undermining the RDC project achievements (details: para. 4.3).
Box 1: Objectives and Components of Urban II and RDC Project
Urban II - Urban Sector and Regional              Pilot RDC - RDC Pilot Capital Development
Development Project (Loan 3079)                             Project (Credit N019)
Cbjectfves to assist borrower through:               Objective (same as RDCCBP's):
Support to urban areas to supply the additional services  Develop the capacity of all RDCs to plan, implement and
required to cope with rapid populaton growth;        manage the sustainable delivery of essential services.
Ensuring adequate levels of maintenance of the exisUing
capital assets of its urban areas;
Sirengthening institutional capacities to appraise proposed
investments in urban areas;
Support for training programs for its Local Authorities to
enhance delivery of urban services and to ensure the
continued financial viability of such Authorities;
Maximizing the financial participation of the private sector
in housing supply; and
Promoting the development of regional programs focused
oni its small towns and growth centers. - dropped
Components (actual costs in US$ million):            Components (actual costs in US$ million):
Hr.)using infrastructure - roads, drainage, water, sewerage,  District development grants - DDGs (US$7.2m.)
street lighting, and cadastral survey (US$28.9m.)    District development loans - DDLs (US$0.2m.)
Housing finance - provision of mortgages and computer  Policy support - consulting services (US$0.05m.)
equipment (US$34.5m.)
Community facilities - schools and clinics (US$6.7m.)
Electricity infrastructure - power distribution (US$0.0m.)
Piimary infrastructure - roads, drainage, water, sewerage
(LIS$35.8m.)
Urban services and maintenance - vehicles and equipment
(LIS$40.4m.)
Regional development program - pilot RDC capital
development fund (CN019) - (US$0.5m.)
Institutional development- technical assistance, training
and studies for MLGNH, MPCNH, and LGs (US$6.6m.)
Source: Technical and legal documentation of respective project
'There had already been a (successful) pilot project, the Pilot District Support Project (PDSP), funded by the (U.K.)
Department for Intemational Development (DFID) in the Midlands province of Zimbabwe eight years before. The
RDCCBP-including its RDC Project time-slice--was the direct outgrowth of the PDSP. A decision to continue with
and complete the RDCCBP itself was not conditional upon the success of the Bank financed RDC Project, as it would
have to be, if the RDC Project had been truly a pilol operation.



4
2.4    The main objectives of the RDC Project (Box 1)-the same as those of the RDCCBP
itself-were substantially relevant to the application of GOZ's decentralization policy to
Zimbabwe's rural areas. In hindsight, however, if these objectives had focused more explicitly
upon rural development results expected through decentralization, they would have better guided
inexperienced RDCs in choosing relevant project investments. Project design was based upon a
weak assumption that no new functions or responsibilities would be loaded on to these new
embryonic RDCs. Key project proposals were not grounded in the precarious working conditions
of the RDCs, their overall functions and responsibilities, their inexperience, and lack of demand
for credit. For inappropriate design features-notably the premature introduction of a credit
instrument, and insufficient attention to development goals-and the lack of readiness for
implementation, project quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory.
2.5    Like Urban H, the RDC Project start-up was two years behind schedule. Also as for
Urban II, difficulties in meeting eligibility requirements were the cause of the delay. RDCs were
unable to get their accounts in order, nor did they appoint key executive officers as required by
the project. Eventually, these eligibility conditions were allowed to lapse,2 but not before the
RDCCBP program itself had to be delayed two-years, postponing its planned completion from
2002 to 2004. The RDC Project awarded District Development Grants (DDGs) to finance RDCs'
chosen projects in all 57 RDCs, but District Development Loans (DDLs) were not taken up
(details: para 4.4). Without the expected Bank funding for its last three years, RDCCBP was
prematurely terminated. That made the RDC Project completion itself an untidy business; works
were left unfinished, US$8.1 million of investments in the pipeline were dropped and RDC staff
skills honed by the project could not be used.
3.     Supporting Zimbabwe's Cities
PROVIDING ADDITIONAL SERVICES
3.1    Urban II works visited by OED had, for the most part, improved the quality of services in
already well served cities. In Victoria Falls on the other hand, the least well served urban center, a
water treatment plant quadrupled supplies to the town, thanks to the project. It is in full operation
today. In the same city, Urban II's residential sites and services brought significant improvements
to the expanded low-income Chinotimba neighborhood, despite temporarily disrupted access after
an elephant felled a tree across the main entrance to the area. In Bulawayo's low-income Pumula
South neighborhood, a health clinic and primary school supported by Urban H were successfully
operating. Less successfully in Bulawayo, significant Urban II investments in the Nkulumane
sewage works had not yet produced a functioning plant. For two and a half years, according to the
local authority, there has been no foreign exchange to pay for necessary pumping equipment.
Urban II improvements to Mutare's water distribution network had not made that city's water
supply more reliable, according to local residents. In Masvingo, the Rujekoia low-income
housing project was successfully completed, albeit with delays, following wrangling over
building standards between he local government and the building society t. On the whole, project
efficacy in providing additional services was modest.
2 At project closing, it does not look as if project funding was allocated among RDCs according to performance-based
eligibility criterion. Altogether, 90 per cent of the 57 RDCs had each received a similar amount, between Zim$4.8-
Zim$6.3 million in DDGs (US$125,000-US$165,000). If the defacto criterion was to ensure an equal amount to each
RDC regardless of performance, it would not have provided RDCs with an incentive to improve.



5
T able 3.1 Zimbabwe's well served Cities                  URBAN MAINTENANCE
1999    1999 share of all              3.2     While Urban II did
Cities visited by  population  households with  Urban II investment
C ED in Zimbabwe (thousands) water (per cent)  (millions of Z$)  provide support, it helped sustain
Harare            1,439       92              283        and strengthen what were already
Elulawayo          752        100             390        well run maintenance operations.
h4utare            159        72              244        Bulawayo bought maintenance
h4asvingo           63        93               78        equipment through Urban II, but
Victoria Falls      20        45              140
----------- Z~i ------- - ---- -city officials found Bank
5 'OED' cities    2,433        93            1,135
1S other cities    992         87            1,337       procurement procedures too
TEDTAL            3,423        91            2,472       focused upon the acquisition
Source and notes: Projections from 1991 census. OED tried to obtain before  price, leading to the purchase of
and after-prolect indicators, but was unable to collect the data  vehicles and equipment that were
Comparator Cities                                        expensive to operate in
Kigali, Rwanda     358         79                        Zimbabwe, for lack of service
Entebbe, Uganda     65         48               -        support in the country. It was not
Kumasi, Ghana      780         65               -        clear to the OED mission,
S,urce and notes: UNCHS Urban Indicators. Data are for 1998  however, whether this issue had
been properly addressed in the specifications of the bidding documents. Officials in Mutare, on
the other hand, found Urban II procurement of maintenance equipment easy to manage, but very
slow, with long lead times for approvals to come from Washington and Harare. The OED mission
was informned in other cities that Urban II ought to have directly financed maintenance costs of
existing infrastructure, instead of funding new investments only. Despite the reservations
expressed0by local officials, most towns and cities visited by OED were well-managed and
maintained. Since the maintenance capacily was mostly in place before the project, though,
Urban-Il's efficacy in ensuring adequate levels of maintenance was only modest.
STRENGTHENING LOCAL APPRAISAL CAPACITY
3.3    Since these cities already knew how to do project appraisal, according to local officials
visited by OED, Urban II's contribution may have been only modestly relevant. The value-added
through this capacity building was not easy to discern, and hence efficacy is rated only modest.
On the financing side of project appraisals, city representatives in Bulawayo, Mutare and
Masvingo- reported that the Urban II project helped hone existing skills, rather than develop new
ones. Officials in the smallest town visited, Victoria Falls, reported that access to project funds
was an incentive to improve their planning and appraisal capacity, something that bilateral donors
helped them carry out. Despite differences in accomplishments between cities, there was little
exchange of experiences among them as occurs in many other countries.
ENSURING CONTINUED FINANCIAL VIABILITY OF CITY AUTHORITIES
3.4    Comprehensive and up-to-date mtnicipal finance data for Zimbabwe was not available
for this review, so it is impossible to know whether Urban II succeeded in sustaining cities'
financial strength as intended, -a substantially relevant project objective. Today, exogenous forces
likely undermine it, however. Zimbabwe's current high inflation erodes the real value of local
revenues, hikes up expenses, and undermines financial planning attempted through Urban II's
city financial performance plans (FPP). Local officials told OED about worsening arrears in local
tax payments. The attempt by one city-Masvingo-to raise taxes to compensate for inflation led
to protests by local residents. There was another indication of possible financial weakness. At
Urban H's completion in 1999, five cities still had no City Treasurer, two more without this key
official than when the project started in 1990. Local officials' complaints about the growth of



6
unfunded mandates, especially for education, health, and roads, suggest that finances are tight.
Systematic and predictable revenue sharing-central to sustainability-is still needed for cities to
maintain the quality of these services, according to the Urban Councils Association of Zimbabwe
(UCA-Z 2000).
MAXIMIZING PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION IN HOUSING FINANCE
3.5     Urban II failed to meet this objective. Its efficacy was negligible, leading the project toward
a less than fully satisfactory outcome. Instead of the US$242 million intended, Zimbabwe's private
building societies (mortgage finance companies) disbursed only US$27 million. This smaller
amount financed only 5,000 housing units instead of the 44,000 expected.3 Despite their planned
role as Urban II's principal financier-against Bank and GOZ funding of US$80 million and
US$234 million, respectively-building societies were not bound to the Bank by any legal
agreement under the Urban II project. Their role was summarily described in a few pages of the
188-page SAR, and their participation failed for a number of reasons.4 First, Urban U's paradigm of
owner-occupied housing did not fit the two-thirds of urban residents in Zimbabwe who are renters.5
Second, few households could afford to service mortgage loans as house prices soared6 and interest
rates rose under the positive interest rate regime of the Bank-supported ESAP.' Third, the
appearance in Zimbabwe of the phenomenon of negative homeowner equity-when a property
value falls below the value of the loan made to buy it-after house prices collapsed in 1991, further
discouraged borrowers. Fourth, even before Urban H was under way, building societies were in dire
financial straits-loss of deposits through competition by the post office, increasing arrears from
high-density areas especially, and excess liquidity. In hindsight, Urban II was unrealistic to expect
Zimbabwe's building societies to lend to formerly off-limit low-income households, when the
societies themselves were reeling from the collapse of the segregated system they had been
instrumental in sustaining. The sorry state of private housing finance in Zimbabwe is well told by
recent published financial statements of the largest mortgage financier, the Central Africa Building
Society (CABS). Of CAB's total assets in 2001, mortgage advances accounted for just 20 per
cent-one-fifth of which were for low-income borrowers. Typically a mortgage finance company
would hold 70 to 90 percent of its assets in the form of mortgage advances, as does Ghana's Home
Finance Company, for instance, and as Zimbabwe's own building societies did in the early 1980s.
By holding 52 per cent of its assets in GOZ treasury bills, CABS is really taking deposits from the
general public to finance government debt, instead of lending for housing.
3The ICR is unclear on this. While it reports mortgage funding of US$16 million approved for 22,432 units, the $713
average loan value is insufficient to fund the construction of a dwelling in Zimbabwe's cities. The ICR report that 60
per cent of Urban II's intended beneficiaries were served by housing does not tell the whole story. It refers only to
serviced lots (stands). Urban II intended to deliver serviced lots and to finance building houses on them (ICR p. 6).
4 The only Bank legal document for this project was the Loan Agreement, which called for subsidiary agreements
between the borrower and each building society.
5 In the tight housing market in Zimbabwe's cities, rising prices have constrained the supply of affordable housing for
sale and led to a rise in the share of households renting between 1982 and 1991 (Rakodi and Withers 1995).
6 Real estate prices had doubled over a 12-month period during 1990-1991, for instance (Bond 1996 p. 287).
'OED's PPAR of the Urban-I Project (Ln2445) also found low-income affordability the major constraint. The impact
survey conducted by OED of 1,378 beneficiaries in June 1994, found that shelter costs were taking 43 per cent of
beneficiaries' incomes, compared to 30 per cent when the units had been sold (World Bank 1996, pp. 27-28). This
contrasts with the 16 per cent of income spent on housing by households in existing low-income households in various
districts of Harare (including the Urban-I Budiriro site) (Rakodi and Withers 1995, p. 193).



7
'1.    Developing the Capacity of RDCs
4. 1   Although a good opportunity-well taken by the Bank-to try to advance
decentralization in Zimbabwe, the RDC Project failed to meet its objectives of developing the
capacity of RDCs to plan, implement and manage the sustainable delivery of essential services.
I'LANNING CAPACITY
4.2    RDCs had begun to build up their planning capacity, but the RDC Project's efficacy was
only modest as gains were tenuous and vulnerable to Zimbabwe's volatile economy and polity.
The most important planning tool introduced was a simple three-year rolling plan, updated
annually, that highlighted intended investments as well as the revenue sources to pay for them.
All the RDCs visited by the OED mission had such plans in place and updated. If not left to
languish too long, the incipient gains made in RDC planning can be resurrected once stability has
returned to Zimbabwe's rural sector. But absence of funding prevented plan implementation and
rnade the plans somewhat academic, according to several local officials. Others thought that
rneaningful planning was impossible in Zimbabwe's economic and political crisis conditions
prevailing in January 2002.
IMPLEMENTATION CAPACITY AND SERVICE DELIVERY
4.3    At best, RDCs' ability to deliver services was only on a very small scale. Under the RDC
P'roject, each RDC invested on average some US$130,000. This was far short of the US$410,000
invested by each of the two PDSP pilot RDCs through 69 infrastructure projects financed by
I)FID in the Midlands province (RDC Project SAR par. 3.03). The main RDC Project instrument
for financing RDC sub-projects was the grant-based DDG funded (by donors) until the premature
shutdown of the RDCCBP in May 2000. Decentralization's promise of GOZ revenue sharing
with RDCs-which, in hindsight, could have been addressed more vigorously during project
implementation-remains beyond reach, and therefore could not make good the post-May 2000
shortfall. Owing to their weak implementation capacity, RDCs could not spending all project
funds available to them. By closing, the project had disbursed only U$3.9 million in DDGs,
barely more than one-quarter of the US$14.3 million intended. This was a disappointing result, in
view of the considerable efforts of project "facilitators" fielded by bilateral donors to improve
RDC planning, implementation and management processes in situ.
4.4    DDLs, the RDC Project loan instrument for financing RDC investments did not get off
the ground. Only one loan in an amount of US$156,200 was made. RDC officials informed the
OED mission that they found the terms and conditions of DDLs-especially the 10 per cent up-
front co-payment and high interest too onerous. But RDCs did not need the DDLs. They had
access to grant funding from 15 sources-including those of the RDC Project itself. As already
rnentioned, they could not even spend the grant money available to them through the RDC Project
itself. In hindsight, the incorporation of the DDL instrument in the RDC Project operation was
premature, something that a careful analysis of the weak RDC demand for credit would have
rnade clear.8 Without DDLs, however, it becomes more difficult to distinguish the RDC Project
efforts fr6m those bilateral efforts underway prior to the Bank-financed project.
The SAR nevertheless cited a study that had reckoned that 17 RDCs were creditworthy at the time of appraisal and
vwould be able to borrow US$3 1.5 million over the five years of the RDCCBP (RDC Project SAR para. 3.28).



8
MANAGEMENT OF ESSENTIAL SERVICES
4.5    With the small scale of RDC Project's service provision and some interventions not
providing "essential" services, project efficacy was only negligible. RDC Project documentation
did not define what was "essential", make clear what kinds of RDC investments were expected,
nor report the kinds of investments actually made. While the ICR gives a sectoral breakdown of
1999 DDG investments 1999,9 it does not describe what those investments were (RDC Project
ICR, p. 11). For these reasons, the OED mission made many-mostly unannounced-field trips
to find out what works had been built and equipment purchased by the RDCs visited.
4.6    From those visits, it became clear that RDCs had made much good use of project funding
to provide useful services for their communities for the most part. Services included primary
schools, clinics, sanitary blocks, bore-holes, and field fencing, as well as small markets, bus
stations, road grading equipment, and road paving. Several works were unfinished, however, as
reported by bilateral donors in Harare. In Marondera, for instance, school construction had not
gone beyond building the main foundations, while in Makoni, a health clinic was fully built, but
not functioning for lack of equipment. Local RDC officials blamed the interruption of funding
when the RDCCBP was discontinued. Less "essential" services included, for instance, a new
house for the RDC engineer, a beer hall, and an office block for use by ministries from Harare-
who are supposedly decentralizing their services to the RDCs. If made in error, such investments
indicate the need for more guidance to RDCs about the types of investments they should make to
stimulate rural development. One solution, perhaps, would be through providing them a menu of
options-aimed at rural development for the poor-from which they can choose.
RDCS DISRUPTED BY FAST-TRACK LAND REFORM
4.7    Hitting RDCs in mid-2001 like a "political cyclone" in the words of one RDC official,
GOZ's fast-track land reform imposed new functions upon RDCs, distracting them from the
capacity development tasks espoused by the RDC Project. The new land reform required RDCs to
help with resettlement by hastily preparing lists of families to be moved and urgently issuing
occupancy certificates to them. These new and heavy responsibilities took up most of RDCs' time
and further undermined the success of a project whose logical framework assumed that no more
functions would be loaded on to RDCs without adequate funding or due regard for their
capacities (RDC Project SAR pp. 38-39).' RDCs thus became ad hoc administrators of
resettlement, at the expense of their role as providers of services for rural development. The land
reform also raised uncertainties about local finances; some RDCs reported losses as taxes were no
longer paid by commercial farms in the throes of expropriation, while others reported gains from
the large number of resettled families paying taxes for the first time. Hard and up-to-date
financial data that would have clarified whether losses exceeded gains were not available. What is
clear, however, is that large-scale new settlement on former commercial farms will substantially
9 According to the ICR-which does not report the full 100 per cent allocation-the breakdown was as follows:
agriculture and veterinary services-22 per cent; Income generation-I 7 per cent; Health-I 5 per cent; Water
supply-I5 per cent ; Roads-13 per cent; Education-9 per cent. For the sample of 33 per cent of RDCs for which
OED collected data in January 2002, most RDCs investments had been made in health centers, followed by
infrastructure and income-generating investments.
' The SAR did not deal in detail with the responsibilities of RDCs, although it referred to 64 as the number of tasks
given RDCs by the 1988 RDC Act (SAR paras. 2.08-2.09). Even though it warns that "It is not yet possible to state
precisely which functions RDCs will be responsible for in the future as the division of roles and responsibilities
between central and local government is still being negotiated." (Ibid.), the possibility of RDC's acquiring new
responsibilities-as in fact happened-was not mentioned in the SAR discussion of project risks (paras. 3.73-3.75).



9
increase the demand for services, making improved RDC capacity for service provision once
again a key goal, after the present crisis has passed.
'5.    Conclusions and Lessons
]RATINGS
5. I   Urban II: The relevance of the project objectives to GOZ policy on urban development
and decen~tralization and Bank urban strategy for Zimbabwe was only modest, since the country's
cities already had good urban services and strong administrations, and the project paid
insufficient attention to urban spatial and housing finance issues. Project efficacy is considered
nodest due to the shortcomings of the intended housing achievements, despite significant urban
service delivery. Project efficiency is nevertheless rated substantial, thanks to the 24.3 per cent
ERR estimated at completion for infrastructure investment. This positive efficiency rating helps
compensate the project's otherwise weak relevance and efficacy performance, thereby switching
the overcome outcome rating of this project into positive territory, namely moderately
satisfactory. Sustainability is rated likely as strong city government capacity and GOZ
commitment will help ensure the resilience of project benefits over time. Institutional
dlevelopment is rated only modest for, with strong city-level capacity before the project, increases
in cities' ability to effectively use resources were relatively small. Bank performance is rated
satisfactory, but marginally so. While much design work was adequate and supervision was
effective, an incomplete reading of the unusual urban service and housing situation in Zimbabwe
diminished the relevance of some of the project objectives. Borrower performance is rated
satisfactory, thanks to the strong support to project implementation given by the city authorities
in particular.
!.2    RDC Project: The relevance of the project objectives to GOZ's decentralization program
was substantial, even though the objectives did not address key rural development issues
affecting the rural poor. Project efficacy is considered negligible since only a fraction of the
project (and RDCCBP program) was implemented, with meager results. Project efficiency is rated
inodest, a positive assessment that comes from the very low actual costs incurred. Overall
outcome is nevertheless unsatisfactory as the project failed to meet its major RDC capacity
building objective and had only minor development benefits. Sustainability is rated unlikely,
since the 'few benefits of the project are not resilient to GOZ's lack of commitment to its original
objectives. Institutional development impact is rated modest, since RDCs can be expected to
make a limited but still more effective use of resources, once the land-reform crisis is passed.
Bank performance is rated satisfactory, for seizing an opportunity to extend Bank support to
decentralization in rural areas, to complement work already done in the urban sector. Borrower
performance is rated unsatisfactory since GOZ actions failed to fully support project
implementation through to completion, and for having unnecessarily sacrificed the objectives of
improving RDC service delivery, during the implementation of the fast-track land-reform
program.
CONCLUSIONS
3.3    The performance of both projects reviewed here was strongly affected by Zimbabwe's
historic distortions of spatial segregation along racial lines in both urban and rural areas, and,
most recently, the land-reform efforts ostensibly designed to deal with them. Neither project
revealed Bank familiarity with Zimbabwe's particular context, as shown by Urban II's unrealistic
lreatment of the private sector housing finance issue and the RDC Project design's lack of
attention to rural development goals and the RDCs various roles and responsibilities for them.



10
Moreover, a sudden shift of borrower policy such as the adoption of fast-track land reform can
further undermine project results. It can sweep aside a project's objectives and leave efforts
toward achieving them to languish. With weaknesses becoming evident during implementation,
the RDC Project was easy prey to such a change. Looking forward to meaningful urban and rural
development results in Zimbabwe's, the Bank will need to focus its assistance more openly and
effectively upon overcoming the acute constraints to the country's urban and rural development
in the future. Overcoming the complex legacy of spatial segregation in both domains will be a
major challenge if the benefits of development are to improve the lives of both the urban and the
rural poor.
LESSONS
5.4    A one-size-fits-all approach to urban project design should give way to a design firmly
anchored to the particular conditions of a borrower's cities and urban development. In
Zimbabwe, these included an unusually high level of urban services, strong city management and
segregated spatial structure and housing market. Zimbabwe's cities need less help in overcoming
deficits than those of other developing countries do, according to the Bank's standard urban
prescription. In Zimbabwe, there is a need to address the spatial distortions of segregation the
cities inherited. Support for housing finance in Zimbabwe could also have paid more attention to
the historic and financial constraints that prevented building societies lending to the poor.
5.5    Project objective statements should clearly signal intended development results. These
can guide implementing agencies-the RDCs in Zimbabwe, for instance-in their choice of
relevant investments, as well as indicate the process improvements-such as better
accounting-they are expected to make. Without a clear focus on their roles in rural
development, some inexperienced RDCs made investments that did not provide essential services
for their communities. One way of providing the necessary guidance is for a project to provide a
menu of eligible options, from which implementing agencies can choose.



]Bibliography
]3ond, Patrick. 1996. Uneven Zimbabwe: A Study of Finance, Development and
Underdevelopment Trenton, Africa World Press Inc.
D)ashwoo'd, Hevina S. 2000. Zimbabwe: The Political Economy of Transformation Toronto,
University of Toronto Press
D)evelopment in Practice Ltd. 2001. Rural District Councils' Capacity Building Programme -
Ministry of Local Government Public Works and National Housing Harare
D)ia, Mamadou. 1996. Africa's Management in the 1990s and Beyond World Bank, Washington
D.C.
EIconomist Intelligence Unit. 2000. Zimbabwe: Country Profile. London, England.
Nqcube, Mthuli. 1991. Development Dynamics. Theories and Lessons from Zimbabwe Aldershot,
Avebury.
Rakodi, Carole and Penny. 1995. "Housing aspirations and affordability in Harare and Gweru: A
contribution to housing policy formulation in Zimbabwe" in Cities Vol. 12. no. 3
lJCA-Z, Urban Councils Association of Zimbabwe. 2000. Policy and Discussion Papers Harare
lJnited Nations Centre for Human Settlements - UNCHS. Urban Indicators.
World Bank. 1985. Zimbabwe: Urban Sector Review Washington DC, Report no. 417 1-ZIM
February 1, 1985.
World Bank. 1995. Performance Audit Report: Zimbabwe - Structural Adjustment Program
(Loan 3434-ZIM and Credit 2331-ZIM) Washington DC. World Bank Operations
Evaluation Department
'World Bank. 1996. Performance Audit Report: Zimbabwe - Urban Development Project (Loan
2445-ZIM) Washington DC, World Bank Operations Evaluation Department.
'World Bank. 2001. World Development Report:2000/2001: Attacking Poverty. The World Bank,
Washington D.C.
World Bank. 2001 b. Ghana: Urban II Project: Project Performance Audit Report Washington
DC Operations Evaluation Department, Report no. 22288, May 30, 2001



12
Annex A: Basic Data Sheet
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT (LOAN 3079-ZIM)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal                   Actual or
estimate                 current estimate
Total project costs                                     580.0                       161.1
Loan amount                                             80.0                        75.1
Cofinancing                                             245.0                       33.2
Date physical components completed                  Dec 31, 1996                 Dec 31, 1999
Economic rate of return                                20.0%                       24.3%
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY90 FY91    FY92 FY93 FY94      FY95  FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99       FY00
Appraisal estmate (US$ millions)    0.8    6.4   19.2  34.4   48.0 64.0    80.0  80.0   80.0  80.0   80.0
Actual (US$ millions)                na    na     na    na     na    na     na    na     na    na     na
Actual as % of estimate              na    na     na    na     na    na     na    na     na    na     na
Date of final disbursement: 9/17/99
Source: SAR
Staff Input
Stage of project cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff Weeks        US$('000)
Identification/Preparation                     98.7                161.2
Appraisal/Negotiafion                          45.8                 65.8
Supervision                                    230.9               559.5
ICR                                                                  -
Total                                         375.40               786.50
*The Time Recording System (TRS) does not provide a distinction of staff week Ume between supervision and
preparation of the ICR. Therefore, the category 'Supervision' above includes both implementabton supervision as well as
the time and resources required to prepare this ICR.
Project Timetable
Stage of project cycle                           Date Planned*            Date actual/Latest Estimate
Idenbficaton (Executive Project Summary)                                             na
Preparabon/Preappraisal                                                              na
Appraisal                                                                          11/88
Negotabons
Letter of Development Policy
Board Presentaton                                                                 06/01/89
Signing                                                                           09/07/90
Effectiveness                                                                     01/29/91
Loan Closing                                         12/31/96                     12/31/99



13
Mission Data
Stage of project cycle            Count     No. Of Persons and         Performnance rating
Monthly       Speciality (e.g.2 Economics, Implementation  Development
ear           1 FMS, etc.) - Specialityl Status      Objectives
ldentification/Preparaton
Appraisal/Negotiaton
Supervision 1             08/25/89  1         Urban Planner            1              1
Supervisin 2             04/13/92  2      1 OA, 1 Sanitary Eng.       2              1
Supervision 3             11/02/92  1        Urban Specialist          3              3
Supervision 4             07/11/93  3        1 TM, 1 Ec, 1FA           3              3
Supervision 5             02/08/94  2         1 TM, 1 Ec/FA            3              3
Supervision 6             10/31194  4      1 TM, 1 Municipal Eng.      S              S
1 FA, 1 Ec
Supervision 7             06/15/95  5     1 TM, 1 PO 1 Municipal       S              S
Eng., 1 EC, 1 FA          S              S
Supervision 8             01/26/96  5     - 2 TM, 2 Economist, 1       S              S
Municipal Eng.
Supervision 9             08/02/96  3     1 TM, 1 Municipal Eng., 1    S              S
FA
Supervision 10            02/20/97  6       1 TM, 10A, 1 DO, 1         S              S
Municipal Eng., 1 EC, 1 LGS
Supervision 11            11/19/97  4     1 TM, 1 OA, 1 Municipal      S              S
Eng, 1 LGS
Supervision 12            04/27/98  5       1 TL, 1 TM, 1 OP, 1        S              S
Municipal Eng., 1 LGS
Supervision 13            10/21/98  5   1 TM, 1 OP, 1 LGS, 1 PO, I     S              S
Municipal Eng.
SuperviAirn 14            03/26/99  6    1 TM, 1 OP, 2 PO, 1 LGS, 1    S              S
Municipal Eng.,
ICR                       11/01/99  2        1 Task Manager            S              S
1 Operations Officer
I Municipal Engineer,
1 Program Assistant
Staff Skills                      Performance Ratings               Tvye of Problems
Ec=Economist                      1-Minor or No Problems            LP: Labor Problems
01POperations Officer             2-Moderate Problems               CC: Compliance with Legal Covenants
DO=Disbursement Officer           3-Major Problem                   EN: Environment(ind.social issues)
FA=Financial Analyst              S-Satsfactory                     PMP-Project Mgt. Performance
1TM=Task Manager                  HS=Highly satisfactory            PP: Procurement Progress
L,GS=Local Gov't Specialist       U-Unsatisfactory                 Il: Institutional Issues
FPO=Procurement Officer
La=Lawyer
OA=Operations Analyst



14
RURAL DISTRICT COUNCIL PILOT CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR-NO19-ZIM)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal                   Actual or
Estimate                 current estimate
Total project costs                                     19.8                         7.4
Loan amount                                             12.3                         4.1
Cofinancing                                              7.0                         3.3
Date physical components completed                    06/30/00                    06/30/00
Economic rate of return                                  na                          na
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY98         FY99        FYOO         FY01        FY02
Appraisal esUmate (US$ millions)                4.4         12.3         12.3        12.3         12.3
Actual (US$ millions)                           0.0         0.5          4.4         4.4          4.1
Actual as % of estmate                          0%          4%          36%          36%          33%
Date of final disbursement 12/13/99. Date of final refund: 11/13/01
Source: SAR, World Bank Integrated Controller's System
Staff Input
Stage of project cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff Weeks        US$('000)
Identification/Preparabon                      26.9                105.4
Appraisal/Negotiabon                           16.4                 66.4
Supervision                                    73.46               230.28
ICR
Total                                         116.76               402.08
*The Time Recording System (TRS) does not provide a distinction of staff week Ume between supervision and
preparation of the ICR. Therefore, the category 'Supervision' above includes both implementation supervision as well as
the Ume and resources required to prepare this ICR.
Project Timetable
Stage of project cycle                          Date Planned*             Date actual/Latest Estimate
Identification (Execubve Project Summary)
Preparabon/Preappraisal
Appraisal                                                                         06/03/96
Negotiations
Letter of Development Policy
Board Presentation                                                                05/29/97
Signing                                                                           09/14/97
Effectveness                                                                      02/04/98
Credit Closing                                       06/30/00                     06/30/00



15
Idission Data
Stage of project cycle                No. of persons and speciality  Implementation Performance Rating
Count                               Program      Development Objective
Identification Preparation
AppraisaVNegotUation
Supervision
Nov. 1997                    4            1 TTL, 2 LGS, 1 OA         S                S
April, 1998                  6            2 TTL, 3 LGS, 10A          S                S
Nov. 1998                    4            1 TTL, 2 LGS, I0A          S                S
March 1999                   6            1 TTL, 2 PO, 1 OA          S                S
1 LGS, 1 ME
Nov. 1999                    7           1 TTL, 1 00, 1 SPO,         S                S
1 PO
1 LGS, 2 Con.
June2000                     2               1 LGS, 1 PO             S                S
Staff Skills:                   Performance Ratinas
ITL = Task Team Leader          S=Satisfactory
L.GS=Local Gov't Specialist
C)A=Operations Analyst
'iPO=Senior Procurement Officer
F'O=Procurement Officer
lUE=Municipal Engineer
C)0=Operations Officer
Con=Consultant









IMAjINLai
Report No.:        24423
Type:     PPAR



