Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20527
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
FOR THE
URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(URBAN II) PROJECT
(Loan 3079 - ZIM)
June 23, 2000
Water and Urban Unit
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar (Z$)
Z$1.00 = US$ 0.03
US$ 1.00 = 40.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FPP            Financial Performance Plans
GDLF           General Development Loans Fund
GoZ            Government of Zimbabwe
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
LAs            Local Authorities
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
LGCDP          Local Government Capital Development Project
MLGNH          Ministry of Local Government and National Housing
MLGRUD         Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development
MPCNH          Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
NDF            Nordic Development Fund
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NHF            National Housing Fund
NORAD          Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
OED            Operational Evaluation Department
PCMU           Program Coordination and Monitoring Unit
PSIP           Public Sector Investment Program
SIDA           Swedish International Development Authority
USAID          US Agency for International Development
Vice President: Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director: Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager: Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader: James F. Hicks



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data ..........................................................               1
2. Principal Performance Ratings .........................................................  2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry.....    2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs ........................... .....................    4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ..........        ...................    I 1
6. Sustainability ..........................................................             12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance .......................................................  15
8. Lessons Learned ...................        .......................................    16
9. Partner Comments .........................       .................................    21
10. Additional Information ...........................................................   23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Map: IBRD #21400R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003294                        Project Name: Zimbabwe Urban Sector and Regional
Development (Urban II) Project
Team Leader: James F. Hicks                TL Unit: AFTU1
ICR Type: Core ICR                         Report Date: June 23, 2000
1. Project Data
Name:  Zimbabwe Urban Sector and                 L/C Number:  Loan 3079 ZIM
Regional Development
(Urban II) Project
Country/Department:  AFC03                                            Region:  Africa
Sector/subsector:  Urban Development
KEY DATES
Original               Revised/Actual
PCD:   None                            Effective:  01/29/91
Appraisal:   11/88                               MTR:  l
Approval:   06/01/89                         Closing:  December 31, 1996   December 31, 1999
Borrower/Implementing   Government of Zimbabwe/Formally Ministry of Local
Agency:   Government, Rural and Urban Development (MLGRUD) and
Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing (MPCNH).
Ministries merged into Ministry of Local Government and
National Housing (MLGNH) in 1997.
Other Partners:   Nordic Development Fund (NDF); Norwegian Agency for
Development Cooperation (NORAD); United States Agency for
International Development (U.S.AID)
Although there was no specific requirement in the Loan Agreementfor a mid-term review, twice -yearly implementation review missions were
held, and the mission of June 1994 addressed, with Government, the need to restructure the project due to the macroeconomic environment that
had significantly reduced the availability of Central Governmentfunds to Local Authorities. The follow-up mission in October 1994further
addressed these issues, and there was a subsequent restructuring of the project.



STAFF                Current                         At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                 Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Barbara Kafka                   Sven Sandstrom
Sector Manager:      Jeffrey S. Racki                Isaac Sam
Team Leader at ICR:   James F. Hicks
Jeffrey S. Racki
ICR Primary Author:   Christopher J. Banes
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(S=Satisfactory, HS=Highly Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely,
UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial,
M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development
Impact: HS
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)                    ICR
Quality at Entry:          N/A
Rapid Supervision
Assessment:                Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Project at Risk at Any Time:   No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
(i) Provide support to urban areas to supply the additional services required to cope with rapid
population growth: (ii) Strengthen the appraisal capacity of central and local government to
determine the most rational and cost effective alternative investments in urban areas: (iii) Ensure
the continued financial self-sufficiency of the local authorities: (iv) Improve maintenance to
protect the capital assets of the local authorities: (v) Strengthen the human resource capacity of
the local authorities: (vi) Maximize the role of private sector investors in urban housing: (vii)
Assist with development of regional program focused on the smaller towns and rural growth
points.
2



3.2 Revised Objective:
Objective (vii) was revised at GOZ's request to focus on development of demonstration
industrial "incubator" sites for indigenous, small scale enterprises in four urban councils of
varying size (Bulawayo, Chitungwiza, Marondera and Rusape). The Loan Agreement was not
amended to reflect the modified objective with regard to the design and implementation of
regional development programs. This was because the description of the objectives in the SAR
was deemed to be sufficiently broad such as not to warrant any formal change to the relevant
project objective.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was structured as a "sector" project with financing of the two main sub-components,
primary infrastructure and urban housing related infrastructure (about 86% of the project at
appraisal), through two sub-sector loans to the General Development Loans Fund (GDLF) and
the National Housing Fund (NHF), available for all urban councils that met basic financial and
management eligibility criteria. The sub-sector loans were to finance the foreign exchange costs
of a time-slice of the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP). Government was to appraise,
issue borrowing powers and provide financing for individual projects put forward by the urban
councils that successfully met established appraisal criteria. The project had a total of four
components namely:
(i) Primary Infrastructure
(ii) Infrastructure for Servicing Residential Land
(iii) Regional Development Program, and
(iv) Strengthening Institutional Capacity
3.3 Revised Components:
Not applicable.
3.4 Quality at Entry:
(i) At the time of appraisal the Bank had no Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). However, the
project supported the Government's program to decentralize and empower local communities by
strengthening the capacity of local government bodies to sustainably manage economic and
social development and by providing resources to relieve constraints in local infrastructure and
services. This is consistent with the current CAS (see the Zimbabwe CAS dated May 1, 1997,
para. 57-Report No. 16541-ZIM).
(ii) At the time of appraisal the Bank had no specific safeguard policies with regard to such
matters as environmental assessment and involuntary resettlement. However given the fairly
stringent requirements that already existed in Zimbabwe at the time of appraisal, particularly
regarding water abstraction and wastewater disposal, and given Zimbabwe's water-scarce
environment, the project's investment components had to, and did, meet such requirements.
There was no involuntary resettlement in the project.
3



(iii) The design of the project (a sector project), albeit ambitious, was sound. Bank preparation
missions worked with the Ministry of Local Government and National Housing (MLGNH,
previously two ministries) to develop databases and modalities for preparing development plans
and financial performance improvement plans, as well as detailed implementation criteria and
arrangements. Working with the Program Coordination and Monitoring Unit (formed under the
First Urban Development Project and reporting to an inter-ministerial Steering Committee), the
Bank team was able to contribute to project design support for a more rigorous appraisal of
municipal infrastructure investment proposals and close monitoring of investment
implementation. Strengthening of the human resource capacity of Local Authorities (LAs)
through training to enable them to provide more efficient infrastructure and service delivery, and
support for greater involvement of the private sector in housing delivery were important
objectives of the project. The private housing finance institutions (i.e. Building Societies) were
built into the project's design. To address concerns regarding employment and development
outside of the larger cities and towns, the regional development component was included.
(iv) Considering that (a) the project required restructuring (disbursement percentages were
increased twice, primarily because of GOZ financial constraints, which also had the effect of
slowing progress, as the pace of implementation generally depended on the release of
government counterpart loan funds to LAs) and (b) the macroeconomic climate has continued to
worsen over the more recent years of the project, then perhaps the assumptions regarding the
macroeconomic future of Zimbabwe were too optimistic at appraisal, or the possible risks of
poor macro fundamentals were not adequately identified.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Outcome/achievement of objectives:
The project is considered satisfactory in the achievement of most of its seven objectives.
(i) Cities and towns (21 urban councils) have benefited from the development of primary
infrastructure (over 200 schemes for road rehabilitation/provision, water supply, sewerage and
sewage treatment have been completed), urban services have been stabilized and improved and
to date in the order of 30,000 stands for low and middle-income housing have been provided, all
to cope with increasing urban population growth.
(ii) Project appraisal processes and capacity, both in MLGNH and the participating councils (21
of the 23 urban councils), have been strengthened through the adoption of more rigorous
appraisal procedures.
(iii) Financial and technical management processes have been strengthened and many urban
councils are now planning strategically, linking urban council operational plans and financial
performance plans and including statements of vision, mission and objectives. The financial
viability of councils had been preserved, and in some cases improved, during a period of
currency devaluation, high inflation and high interest rates. However in 1996 central
4



government placed responsibility for provision of primary health care and education delivery
responsibilities on to local government without providing concomitant funding and this, and the
general, more recent, rapidly deteriorating economic/financial situation in the country is now
undermining earlier gains made.
(iv) Provision of plant and equipment and initiatives, albeit limited, to involve the private sector
in operation and maintenance of some municipal services (e.g. water supply in Gweru, refuse
collection in Harare) has improved maintenance of services and capital assets in the urban
councils.
(v) The human resource capacity of the urban councils has been strengthened through a
manpower development program that included technical assistance and training. Investment
programming, project appraisal, financial management and urban service operation and
maintenance requirements were all initiatives financed under the project using the NDF funds.
Active fora of Town Engineers and Town Treasurers assisted in the institutional development
program.
(vi) Through (a) early support to building societies, (b) the support for expanding housing
infrastructure and (c) support for the survey and registration of housing stands, the project
assisted in enhancing the role of the private sector in urban housing for the lower income
households.
(vii) This final objective that was to assist with the development of regional development
programs focused on smaller towns and rural growth centers (a relatively minor objective for this
comparatively small component of the project) was revised, at the request of government, in
order to assist with the development of demonstration incubator industrial sites aimed at
"indigenous" small-scale entrepreneurs in four towns of varying size. This revised objective was
also satisfactorily achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Primary Urban Infrastructure
The primary infrastructure component has been implemented satisfactorily. For a period of
almost ten years the Project has supported government loans to the urban councils (through the
General Development Loans Fund) for the implementation of the bulk of their respective
municipal infrastructure capital works programs. Various of the discrete projects making up
programs were priority elements of council development plans and indicative investment
programs, a sample of which were reviewed during the appraisal of the project.
All 21 (of 23) participating Councils carried out urban infrastructure works and urban services
and maintenance activities through the Project. A total of 180 contracts to a value of Z$1,703
million (US$45 million) were awarded. In addition, 66 Force Account sub-projects for primary
infrastructure works were completed to a value of Z$220 (US$5.8 million).
5



Housing and Related Serviced Residential Land
The housing infrastructure component has been implemented satisfactorily. For a period of
almost ten years the Project has supported government loans to the urban councils (through the
National Housing Fund) for the implementation of the bulk of their respective council housing
site infrastructure programs. As with the primary infrastructure component various of the
discrete projects making up programs were priority elements of council development plans and
indicative investment programs, a sample of which were also reviewed during the appraisal of
the project.
a. Housing Infrastructure
Approximately 30,000 stands had been serviced by councils under the project by December 31,
1999. Sub-projects to a total value of approximately Z$478 million were either completed or
nearing completion, with Z$232 million by Force Account and Z$246 million by contract.
Approximately 26,400 stands had been allocated, and of these buildings had commenced on
about 18,000 with approximately 6,900 occupied. Building and occupation of houses on
serviced stands slowed in latter years due to the worsening economic and financial environment
with Building Societies lending little for low-income housing. Because of this situation, since
mid-1998 no new housing infrastructure schemes were supported under the Project. At appraisal
it was estimated that the number of persons likely to benefit from the plot delivery program was
approximately 500,000 occupants and lodgers. It is estimated that at December 31, 1999 some
300,000 had probably benefited. Nevertheless, given the worsening economic situation
throughout the project and more particularly in recent years with increasing urban poverty, the
housing component is still regarded as having been satisfactory.
b. Housing Finance
During the life of the project, 29,328 mortgage applications were received by the building
societies to a value of Z$879 million (US$26 million equivalent) against a project target of
30,000. Some 22,432 mortgages were approved to a value of approximately Z$570 million
(US$16 million) against a target of 24,000.
For the past two years building societies have lent very little to urban poor families, as families
have been unable to meet society lending requirements due to the worsening economic situation,
including high inflation. Building societies also have become decapitalized (see Section 6.1 .c
regarding sustainability) and are not providing finance to any significant number of households,
of what ever income. Until recently the housing finance component was operating satisfactorily,
albeit relying significantly on relative cheap, external funds (U.S.AID Housing Guarantee funds).
No new housing plot delivery programs were cleared for support under the program after mid-
1998, given this situation and the fact that many allottees could not afford to purchase plots or to
finance mortgages required for home construction.
Although the recent period of high inflation has undermined outputs of the housing finance
component during this period, an important, overall output has been confirmation (to
Government and to the private financial sector) that the private financial sector (primarily the
6



building societies) can be responsive to the mortgage finance requirements of lower income
households. Despite some initial skepticism that the private financial sector could be responsive,
this output was initiated under the Urban I Project (with pilot Councils) and consolidated under
the Urban II Project.
c. Community Facilities
Under this component a number of community facilities, including primary schools, a nursery
school, and community health clinics were constructed with project funds in several city councils
and municipalities as part of housing development schemes. See the table below.
As of June 1999
City Council/Municipality       Z$ million           US$ million
Bulawayo                   28.0                  0.74
Gweru                    11.0                  0.29
Harare                   46.0                  1.21
Mutare                    5.0                  0.13
Hwange                    2.0                   0.05
Victoria Falls               1.0                  0.03
d. Electricity Supply
This original sub-component of the project was dropped at a fairly early stage when the
Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority informed the Bank that it had sufficient own-source
revenues and thus did not require IBRD funds.
Regional Development Program
This component was recast during the project at the request of government and it was agreed that
it would consist of a demonstration project in 4 councils where industrial "incubator" sites would
be serviced. This was to support development of small-scale indigenous entrepreneurs. Four
councils of varying size were selected by government to participate, namely Bulawayo,
Chitungwiza, Marondera and Rusape. Good progress on the component was made in Bulawayo
where the contract for provision of serviced industrial "incubator" sites was completed and
demand for them was such that the council, with its own funds serviced further sites. The sites in
the other council areas with the exception of Chitungwiza, were substantially finished and
contracted works paid for prior to December 31, 1999. Implementation of the revised component
is considered satisfactory.
Given that the component was restructured then the original sub-components, namely; (a)
Preparation of the Combination Development Plan and Investment Strategy for the Greater
Harare Metropolitan Area; (b) Development of Secondary Cities and Towns along the
Bulawayo/Harare/Mutare Corridor; and (c) Development of Regional Growth Centers, were not
proceeded with.
7



Institutional Development
Although some aspects of the institutional development program have moved slowly, mainly due
to staffing constraints within the financial advisor's section of MLGNH, generally the
component has been implemented satisfactorily.
a. Strengthening the Management of Public Investments in the Urban Sector
In support of a principal project objective of strengthening the capacity of central and local
government to determine the most cost-effective investment in the urban sector, technical
assistance was provided to the MLGRUD, through the PCMU, and to the MPCNH until
shortly before its merger with MLGRUD, to review capital development plans and to
appraise sub-project proposals. This assistance was provided with funding by NDF (and
later NORAD, including the municipal engineering technical assistance provided to
PCMU), and it proved to be very effective and is continuing. The quality of sub-project
submissions from the urban councils, often prepared by consultants engaged by the
councils, improved during the course of the project as did the appraisal process which was
carried out in a structured way with guidelines and appraisal checklists established for the
various sized sub-projects.
An institutional development sub-component comprised the establishment, in MLGNH, of
a financial database for all Local Authorities. This proceeded very slowly due to staffing
constraints within the Financial Advisors' section of the MLGNH, where it appeared
impossible to attract sufficient numbers of competent financial staff on government salaries
offered.
Another sub-component was a computerized Loan Management System, established in
1997 within MLGNH, although it has not been operated effectively due to the same staffing
constraints noted above. The PCMU also assisted the Financial Advisors' section in
MLGNH in keeping abreast of the loans made by MLGNH to respective local authorities.
In addition to the longer term technical assistance noted above, other discrete studies were
carried out during the course of the project with the objective of strengthening the
management of public investments in the urban sector. These included studies regarding
the potential for expanding private sector participation in infrastructure provision in
general, and specifically of solid waste management services in Harare.
b. Strengthening the Institutional Capacity of Local Authorities
The technical assistance provided to, and general strengthening of, the respective ministries
and particularly the PCMU assisted the urban councils as much as central government in
improving the quality of plans and sub-project proposal submissions that underwent more
rigorous review than had hitherto been the case prior to the project.
8



The need for council plans to be prepared and continually updated was continually focused
upon by MLGNH/PCMU and, although some councils did not consider this a priority, as at
December 31, 1999 thirteen Councils (Bindura, Chegutu, Chinhoyi, Gwanda, Harare,
Kadoma, Kariba, Kwekwe, Marondera, Masvingo, Norton and Redcliff, Victoria Falls) had
submitted updated draft Strategic Plans to the MLGNH.
The financial management capacity of the urban councils has been strengthened and, until
the problem of unfunded mandates became more serious in the last two years (primarily in
the health sector) urban councils were becoming increasingly independent of central
government in financing their recurrent expenditures. Initiatives introduced through the
project included an insistence on councils preparing up-to-date audited accounts and on the
agreement of 5-year financial performance plans (FPPs). These FPPs provided a structured
and integrated framework in which to appraise new investments and to assess their likely
affordability as well as providing the MLGNH a basis for reviewing bids for PSIP
allocations, annual budget submissions and tariff increases. The capacity building
initiatives in support of the FPP process centered on improving financial management
systems, such as the implementation of new computer based accounts and training.
Computers and the new accounting system (PROMUN) were successfully installed in 20
councils participating in the project component. The task was officially completed on
December 31, 1996. At December 31,1999, 16 Councils had substantially implemented the
system. Two Councils, Harare and Bulawayo, established their own systems. New
computer servers and software were procured through the project and installed by the end
of December 1999 in order to make the PROMUN computerized accounting system Y2K
compliant.
c. Program Coordination and Monitoring
The PCMU, established under Urban I, was effective in being the linkage between the
urban councils and central government as well as between central government and the
Bank. It has been instrumental on moving the project forward and helping the urban
councils in their understanding of both central government and World Bank requirements
in terms of such matters as sub-project submissions, contract management and procurement
as well as being the responsible agency for dealing with reimbursement applications
including checking of statements of expenditure for Force Account works and disbursement
issues.
d. Strengthening of Urban Transport Planning and Management
At an early stage of implementation government decided that it no longer required IBRD
funds to support further technical assistance for the Urban Transport Unit established in the
MLGRUD (MLGNH). This small TA and training component was thus never proceeded
with.
9



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
In late 1999 an assessment of the impact of projects in a sample of six urban councils was carried
out. Flows of economic benefits and costs generated by both primary and housing infrastructure
schemes together with impact of investments on the environment and on poverty reduction were
determined. In general it was concluded that the project had, to a great extent, accomplished
what it had set out to do in assisting urban councils with the provision/rehabilitation of
infrastructure. Significant investments were made in roads and water supply. However the
largest primary infrastructure investment was in sewerage and sewage treatment, where ERRs
were not calculated, indicating the focus urban councils placed on health, environment and
serving the urban poor. Zimbabwe's urban residents have very high access to both potable water
and waterborne sewerage and sewage treatment facilities with 98% having access to potable
water and 84% to sewerage. High sewage effluent standards are required and are generally
achieved reflecting the protection required for Zimbabwe's water-scarce environment.
At appraisal, ERR estimates were made for housing related infrastructure components. Housing
related infrastructure comprised 67 percent of the total project costs estimated at appraisal.
Included in the capital costs were all on-site infrastructure anticipated, house construction
investments and 30% of primary infrastructure (the remaining 70% of primary infrastructure
investments related to city wide improvements). The ERR estimated at appraisal was 20% for
these investments. In 1999, actual housing related infrastructure investments financed under the
project were examined for a sample of three Councils (Bulawayo, Gweru-and Bindura). This ex-
post analysis provided ERR estimates comparable to those estimated at appraisal, ranging from
18% to 72%. The weighted average ERR for the three Councils was 24.3%. The PSIP hurdle
rate for infrastructure investments is 12%.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return were not calculated at appraisal for this sector operation. However a
fundamental objective of the project was the introduction of council Financial Performance Plans
(FPP) intended to operate over a 3-5 year period. An important objective of an FPP was to
facilitate the shift by local authorities from a deficit status to a surplus status for each operating
account. The intention of the FPPs was not necessarily to preclude any capital expenditures
under a deficit situation but to make sure that such expenditures were in the context of a plan
(FPP) that would result in the local authority having a current account surplus within the three-
five year period. It was agreed that annual financial targets of all FPPs would be designed to
ensure that at a minimum, on an annual basis, total revenues for each of the principal service
accounts would be sufficient to meet a range of expenses that were listed in the SAR. These
financial targets of most urban councils were generally met.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As detailed in 4.2 Institutional Development, the ID impact has generally been significant. In
most urban councils there is now a greater ability to make effective use of available human and
financial resources. Within the MLGNH, through the PCMU and elsewhere, there is a greater
10



appreciation of the need to analyze more rigorously projects put forward by councils for loan
funding together with the capacity to be able to do this.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project design assumed that there would be co-financing from both KFW and SIDA. This
did not transpire although subsequently the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) replaced part of
this earlier envisaged co-financing for technical assistance and training. Latterly through the
final two project extensions, with NDF funds fully utilized, NORAD supported municipal
engineering technical assistance to the PCMU.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was late in starting up by about two years. The primary reasons for this delay were
the; (i) delay that some Councils experienced in meeting the initial project participation criteria;
(ii) inadequate professional capacity in some urban LAs to prepare detailed project proposals
which were to undergo much more rigorous scrutiny by MLGNH before loan funding was
approved; (iii) lack of funds for LAs to engage consultants to assist in preparation of such
proposals (the initial disbursement percentage was only 20% for works, and there was no Loan
category for Consultants Services). At the time of appraisal, GOZ wished to keep borrowing to a
minimum and there was a reluctance to borrow Loan funds for consultants and training.
Periodic delays occurred because of significant backlogs in registering land titles of the serviced
plots financed under the project for low-income households. In Zimbabwe, land titles are
assured by the state, through the Surveyor-General's Department, and these titles are a
prerequisite for mortgage finance. Backlogs prevented, temporarily, receipt by the target
households of the benefits of housing related infrastructure financed under the project. The main
cause of these backlogs was staffing constraints in the Surveyor-General's Department and,
earlier in the project, the obstacles placed by the Department on engagement of private surveyors
to assist with surveys and registrations.
Substantial devaluations of the Zimbabwe dollar resulted in less requirement for the loan's U.S.
dollars. Thus, devaluations made a significant contribution to the need to extend the closing
dates of the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A major factor affecting the pace of implementation was the delay by a number of councils in
meeting the basic eligibility criteria for entry into the program. This eligibility criteria centered
primarily on the financial health of the respective council and the general management of its
affairs. In addition, some councils had difficulties in accessing land for housing development.
11



Other factors included the time taken for preparation (feasibility, engineering and bid documents)
of components and then their procurement. It took some while for councils to understand and
accept Bank procurement requirements.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Macroeconomic problems and the shortage of government funding for the Public Sector
Investment Program (PSIP) restricted project counterpart funding, and this delayed many sub-
projects. Furthermore, many sub-components that commenced often slowed due to funding
shortages. A further result of erratic annual allocation and subsequent release of funds was that
more sub-projects than anticipated were carried out through Force Account. Councils perceived
that force account arrangements allowed more flexibility in implementation and served as a
hedge against somewhat unpredictable flow of funds from PSIP.
The project funding agreed at appraisal was for IBRD to finance only foreign exchange costs.
This was an important principle for Government at that time. The Loan Agreement established
that IBRD would fund only 20% of works expenditures, and 50% of local expenditures and
100% of foreign expenditures for goods. During project implementation, in response to the
worsening macro-economic climate and the increasing difficulty this caused in providing local
counterpart financing, the Loan disbursement percentages for works were increased twice, in
1995 from 20% to 30% and then, in 1997 from 30% to 50%.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
For this project, evaluation of sustainability may be separated into three key categories. First is
the issue of sustainable financing of council investments for the primary urban infrastructure
component and for the housing and related serviced residential land component. Second is the
sustainability of these investments by councils, through proper operation and maintenance.
Third is sustainability of the financing of shelter (including basic infrastructure) so that the
primary urban infrastructure component and the housing and related serviced residential land
component for low income households may provide sustainable benefits to these households, and
that this three-pronged "model" may be sustained beyond the project. Each of these categories is
examined below.
(a) Sustainable financing of council investments. At the time of project appraisal, the accepted
way for local authorities to finance infrastructure development was either through own-
source revenues or by applying to either of the central government loan funds for projects
included in the PSIP. By submitting project details, which were fairly loosely appraised by
MLGNH, local authorities received borrowing powers to access either of the General
Development Loans Fund or the National Housing Fund, depending on the type of sub-
project. Whereas the system had worked reasonably well for some years, PSIP funds were
lent at subsidized interest rates, when compared to commercial terms and conditions. Under
the project, the rigor of appraisals for financing under PSIP was increased. However, with a
12



worsening macroeconomic situation, funds became more and more scarce, and it became
increasingly more difficult for central government to provide such concessionary funding.
Thus, the basic instrument (PSIP) for lending to local authorities for infrastructure and
services under the project over time proved to be not sustainable. Furthermore, particularly
during the latter years of project implementation, a broad consensus emerged within the
Government, the councils and the private capital markets, that not only was central
government, though PSIP, not a sustainable, primary source of local government investment
finance, it also was not a desirable source of investment finance for councils that should be
creditworthy. It should be noted that U.S.AID made a significant contribution to this
consensus, through its support to the Municipal Finance Working Group that brought
together Central and Local Government representatives and those of the private financial
sector. Thus, although the PSIP as primary financing instrument for local infrastructure is
broadly recognized as not sustainable, during project implementation, and with the valuable
support of U.S.AID, alternative local infrastructure finance instruments from the private
sector (primarily from pension funds and insurance houses) were identified. In April 2000,
the proposed Local Government Capital Development Project (LGCDP) was successfully
negotiated, as the primary follow-on to the Urban II Project, and it has as its comerstone the
accessing of local, private sector financing for municipal infrastructure, and the phasing out
of PSIP for local investment finance.
(b) Sustainability by councils. The local authorities collect property rates to cover maintenance
of non-remunerative services and user charges for services (e.g. water) consumed by direct
beneficiaries. In normal circumstances the local authorities manage to operate and maintain
facilities and services, although funds set aside for maintenance are frequently not enough.
The problem for the urban councils has been exacerbated, however, by central government
because of the unfunded mandates placed upon them. Urban Councils are now responsible
for funding primary health and education (formally provided with central government
assistance) but they have not been given the requisite funding or powers to raise revenues to
fund the sectors affected. Thus, council resources are stretched such that funding for new
development and maintenance of existing assets is threatened. At this time the capacity of
urban councils to sustain investments provided under the project is open to question, and it is
unlikely that the investments will be adequately sustained without this issue being addressed.
Again, the proposed LGCDP has a component that aims to address the restructuring of the
local authorities in order that they are able to become creditworthy. The issue of the un-
funded health and education mandates is one that is under discussion with central
government.
(c) Sustainability of shelter finance. As noted under 4.2(b) above, the project has demonstrated
that the private financial sector (primarily the building societies) may be a sustainable source
of finance under conditions of reasonable macro fundamentals. Over 22,000 mortgages were
approved by the building societies under the project. This is a clear indication that the
private financial sector was willing to lend to low income households. Part of this
willingness may be attributed to the remarkable priority that low income households place on
housing finance. Low income households proved that they had a better record of prompt
mortgage repayments, compared to higher income groups (perhaps because of the income
expected to flow to low income households from the renting of rooms). U.S.AID household
13



surveys have shown that sampled low income households make every effort to be timely in
meeting their housing related payments, even at the expense of reducing their expenditures
for food. However, there is a fundamental issue regarding the sustainability of this mortgage
finance. The mortgage loan deposit interest rates of the building societies are effectively
"capped" through agreements with Government, and these rates are lower than those of
commercial banks. The so called "Mortgage to Deposit" difference (returns from deposits in
building societies vs. returns from commercial bank deposits) used by Habitat to reflect the
sustainability of mortgage finance was negative in Zimbabwe every year over the period
1991-1999, ranging from -2.3 percent in 1996/97 to -23.4 percent in 1999. Excluding these
extremes, the average difference over the period was -12 percent (data from Reserve Bank).
The fact that the building societies were able to attract deposits sufficient to fnance over
22,000 mortgages under the project indicates that some investors place a high premium on
the perceived, low risk of building society deposits, yet the mortgage to deposit difference in
1999 of over 20 percent clearly is not sustainable as the building societies have become
decapitalized. The effective capping of mortgage interest rates results in an implicit subsidy
through these rates that is unlikely to be sustainable (see Lessons Learned below).
The sustainability rating of this project generated considerable debate among the ICR team. The
instrument for financing of council investments, the PSIP, is broadly recognized to be not
sustainable, yet Government has already agreed to move to capital market instruments that are
likely to be sustainable. Sustainability of the councils' investments has generally had a good
track record under the project, but the recent imposition on councils of unfunded mandates has
undernined this sustainability. Government has recognized this issue and agreed to address it
effectively as part of the proposed (and successfully negotiated) Local Government Capital
Development Project. The capping of mortgage loan interest rates clearly is not sustainable.
But, the potential for a sustainable housing finance market for low income households clearly has
been demonstrated, with financial institutions willing to lend, and low income households
demonstrating the ability to repay mortgage loans, even with great sacrifice. It is important to
place the Urban II project as part of a learning process provided by a broader program of support
by the Bank, including the Urban I and II Projects, the Rural District Council Pilot Project, and
the proposed Local Government Capital Development Project (that incorporates lessons learned
regarding sustainable local infrastructure finance and unfunded local mandates). In summary,
sustainability depends on the likelihood of:
*  Replacing the PSIP with access to capital markets based on creditworthiness of councils;
*  Resolving the issue of unfunded mandates undermining the sustainability of council
investments; and
*  Removing mortgage interest caps so that willing lenders and willing borrowers may sustain
the housing finance market (with possible subsidies to low income households).
The ICR team's judgement is that there is a reasonable likelihood that these three lessons learned
will be implemented in the medium term, if the current uncertainties may be resolved and a
longer term development agenda may be established. Therefore, on balance, the ICR team has
concluded that a rating of Likely Sustainability is appropriate for this project.
14



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Infrastructure sub-projects have expanded service coverage, and all are in operation. No special
transition arrangements have been necessary. New and rehabilitated facilities have been
considered in annual maintenance planning and in financial planning, as required under the
eligibility requirement of an appropriate Financial Performance Plan (FPP). Existing
performance indicators would apply as for all urban council infrastructure facilities. To ascertain
whether infrastructure provided through the project, and indeed all urban council infrastructure,
is being operated and maintained effectively and, whether appropriate general revenues and/or
user charges are being recouped to adequately cover such operation and maintenance, the
proposed Local Government Capital Development Project is expected to include a small
component for such monitoring. A future impact evaluation by OED would be prudent during
the second year following full completion of all sub-projects (after completion of defects liability
periods for all contracts) and such that budgets allocated for operation and maintenance and
funds released could be monitored.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal was generally
satisfactory. The project built on the experience of the first Urban Development Project (Urban
1), which supported investments in four cities. There was a clearly identified need to support the
whole of the country's urban sector. There was adequate involvement and consultation with
potential beneficiaries (22 urban councils existed at appraisal). All urban councils were visited,
and discussions on their investmenft needs and programs were held.
7.2 Supervision:
Over the course of the project, which was extended three times (see Aide-Memoires of
supervision missions of January, 1996, September 1997 and April 1998), the Bank had at least
two supervision missions per year. In addition, support was available at the Resident Mission in
Zimbabwe for resolution of procurement issues and on general project issues. However, there
were some shortcomings at different times on the Bank side with regard to delays in reviewing
documents and giving necessary clearances (no objections) and in dealing with disbursement
issues that arose.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was considered satisfactory and supervision missions were welcomed
by government as a means of assisting in the resolution of more difficult issues first hand in the
field. The Bank managed to achieve some mission member continuity throughout the course of
preparation and implementation.
15



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory with few problems encountered
by missions during the preparation cycle.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The start-up of the project was delayed (24 months between appraisal and effectiveness) as a
result of apparent government reluctance to borrow IBRD funds and the slow pace in meeting
certain conditions for effectiveness (such as FPPs, audits and staffing adequacy). Also,
Government and the Bank did not "compromise" in the rigor required for meeting these
effectiveness conditions. However once the project commenced, performance was satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The urban councils were the implementing agencies responsible for planning, design,
procurement and implementation of sub-projects. They generally performed satisfactorily.
Lessons learned among councils were actively disseminated through national professional
organizations, particularly the Town Clerks' Forum, and the Town Treasurers' Forum.
PCMU was also a key implementing agency. Its responsibilities included: appraising sub-
projects; reviewing plans, designs and bid documents; monitoring financial performance; project
budgeting and discussions with other government ministries, primarily Finance and the National
Economic Planning Commission; checking local authority statements of expenditure and
preparing applications for disbursement of loan funds from the Bank; organizing and overseeing
institutional development initiatives; monitoring preparation and submission of audits; and
preparing comprehensive semi-annual reports including key monitoring indicators. The PCMU,
established under Urban I, performed all these tasks competently and throughout had effective
management and good staff continuity.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was considered satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
a. General
-- Role of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) outside of the civil service structure. Many Bank
projects have been criticized for supporting the creation and financing of PIUs that are not
sustainable and that create tensions with civil servants that receive less remuneration and have
less supportive working environments than PIUs. This project has such a unit, the PCMU.
16



The main lesson learned about the appropriateness of PCMU's role and structure depends on
evaluation of two key aspects: (a) the long-tern development role of the project's
implementation arrangements; and (b) the need for inter-ministerial coordination and
collaboration in implementing the project's development objectives.
(a) The key functions of PCMU are summarized in section 7.6 above. It may be noted that most
of these functions are not part of the core responsibilities of central governmnent in a policy
environment of decentralization. There are exceptions, including the monitoring of councils'
financial performance. However, most of PCMU's responsibilities under the project should
be considered transitory, adapting as decentralization policies are designed, implemented and
refined. Decentralization became a key policy objective of Government during project
implementation. Thus, a transitory PCMUJ that has not been part of the civil service system
seems justified in the case of this project. However, if the long-term development policy had
evolved to be a highly centralized public sector, then the core functions of PCMU arguably
should have been supported as part of the civil service system, presumably within the
MLGNH. In summary, a key lesson leamed is that appropriate implementation arrangements
for support to local governments depends on the long-term policy for the accountability and
autonomy of local governnents. If this policy is for central control over local governments,
then the functions of PCMU should have been consolidated within the civil service of central
governnent. If, however, the broader policy is for increasing accountability and autonomy of
local governments, then a transitory project implementation agency, such as the PCMU,
outside of the civil service system, is justified. For the follow-on project, the Local
Govermnent Capital Development Project currently conceived as an Adaptable Program
Credit and the Bank's exit strategy for support to the local government sector. it is expected
that most of the PCMU's functions eventually would be contracted out to the private sector,
in clear recognition of the transitory role of such an entity during implementation of a broad
decentralization policy.
(b) Although Zimbabwe has a Ministry for local government, it is clear that local government
responsibilities also depend on other line ministries, as well as the Ministry of Finance.
Thus, an inter-ministerial Steering Committee was established for project oversight. One of
the reasons that PCMU was created was the need to respond to the requirements of this
Steering Committee. To have had PCMU as part of the civil service system would have
required a decision designating a "lead" Ministry for the Steering Committee or the creation
within civil service of an additional entity. The decision to have PCMU as a separate entity
outside of the civil service system responded to the need of Government to not make that
decision at the time of the project's launch. As noted above, the subsequent policy drive for
decentralization of the public sector has resulted in the lesson learned that central government
civil service "institutionalization" of support to local government investment programs
generally are not justified, and that transitory institutional arrangements for decentralization
policy initiatives (such as those for PCMU) are justified and required.
-- Role of a Central Government Institution for Funding of Local Government Investments. The
Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) was the key source of counterpart funding under the
project. A key lesson learned is that the mixing of fiscal and financial policies of central
government in intergovernmental relations is not sustainable and not desirable in implementation
17



of sound decentralization policies. The PSIP has been a type of central government "Municipal
Development Fund" for financing local investment programs observed in many Bank local
government projects. At best, such funds should be transitory and not the monopoly supplier of
investment funding for local governments. Zimbabwe has as one of its key development policies
the decentralization of the public sector. To be effective, this policy should clearly distinguish
between fiscal policies for decentralization and policies for financing of local investments. To be
sustainable, decentralization policies must ensure that local governments have the fiscal potential
to become creditworthy (policies on assignment of expenditure responsibilities, local fiscal base
and intergovernmental fiscal transfers). Local government investment finance should come
primarily from the private financial sector, especially in a country such as Zimbabwe with liquid
and well managed financial market players, many of whom (such as pension funds and insurance
houses) are seeking to match long term liabilities with long term assets, such as financing
instruments for municipal infrastructure. In complement, local government investments may be
financed partially or totally by clearly defined fiscal transfers designed to support
implementation of national policies, such as policies for local capacity building and community
participation. The proposed LGCDP seeks to implement these key lessons learned.
-- Capacity Constraints at the Local Government Level. Local capacity varies significantly
according to local jurisdiction size, economic base, and the quality of local civil service. Local
government projects need to recognize this diversity in capacity and to include mechanisms to
improve this capacity. Fundamental capacity reforms may need to examine the viability of some
local governments, and the possible need to re-define local government responsibilities and
jurisdictions. The roles of the local public sector and the private sector may need to be re-
evaluated, with the possible "crowding in" of private sector capacity under rules of the game
established by local public government. Unfumded mandates must be addressed urgently, and
considerable council restructuring will be to required to restore affected councils to fiscal
soundness.
-- Role of a Central Ministry Responsible for Local Government Policies. In a policy
environment of centralized responsibilities, with deconcentration and/or delegation to local
govermment of central responsibilities, a central ministry has key command and control
responsibilities for implementation of central government policies. In a policy environment of
increasing devolution of responsibilities to local governments, a central ministry has radically
different responsibilities, including ensuring that local governments have the fiscal, financial and
institutional capacities to discharge the responsibilities mandated to them, and that central
government may monitor and evaluate how local governments are implementing these
responsibilities. During implementation of the Urban II project, a policy shift began to emerge,
from an emphasis on "command and control" to more devolution, and the considerations of this
shift and lessons learned have attempted to be incorporated in the design of the proposed
LGCDP.
-- The Importance of Professional Networkingfor Dissemination of Lessons Learned. Under the
Urban II project such networking and dissemination have proved to be very important and
effective. This reinforces lessons learned in other local government projects, such as in Brazil
and the Philippines (see OED report "Developing Towns and Cities: Lessons Learned from
Brazil and the Philippines", 1999).
18



b. Fiscal and Financial
-- Distinction between Fiscal and Financial Instrument for Support to Local Government. As
noted in the general issues discussed above, these instruments need to be carefully separated,
with appropriate policy and implementation arrangements being formulated and implemented.
This is the case for the sustainability of financing for both infrastructure and housing
investments. Providing subsidies through interest rates distorts undermines the functioning of
the financial sector and will not be sustainable without fiscal financing that hence may not be
used for alternative purposes. If policy requires subsidies, it is better to fund them directly
through fiscal instruments.
-- Funding Capacity. To the extent feasible, funding capacity should not be based on a local
jurisdiction being "rich or poor". Rather, under the decentralization policy being developed by
Government, fiscal capacity should be "equalized" across all jurisdictions through the
appropriate assignment of local fiscal instruments and the formulation and implementation of
appropriate intergovernmental fiscal arrangements. Thus, under the decentralization "vision"
being developed, funding capacity should be distinguished according to (a) the fiscal capacity
(local and intergovernmental) to properly provide, operate and maintain basic infrastructure and
services for all Zimbabweans, independently of the local jurisdiction in which they reside, and
(b) the capacity to leverage good local fiscal performance with additional resources for the
financing of investments targeted on growth and poverty reduction coming from the private
financial sector.
-- Standardized Local Government Budgeting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Requirements.
In order to implement a decentralization policy based on enhanced local accountability and
responsibility based on national (and international) standards, generally accepted norms for
financial management need to be agreed and implemented. A key lesson learned is that these
standards should be consistent with the central government's due diligence requirements, as well
as those of potential private sector partners in the provision of local infrastructure and services.
c. Technical
-- Technical Appraisals. The technical appraisal process introduced for Urban II sub-projects has
disciplined Council engineers, made them more cognizant of financial realities and improved the
prioritization of sub-projects within Councils. The introduction of appraisal requirements, linked
to sub-project value, has lessened the work required in proposal preparation time for the Councils
(or their consultants) and in proposal appraisal time for the PCMU.
-- Force Account. Force Account for routine infrastructure projects is generally preferred by
Council Engineering Departments as it is considered faster (no tendering and evaluation
procedures) , it can respond better to erratic budget allocation releases from the GDLF and the
NHF and it provides Council staff with "hands-on" experience. However little analysis on the
actual costs of Force Account and comparison with Contractor costs appears to be carried out.
Force Account may have a role to play but transparency is important and its costs should be
ascertained.
19



-- Procurement. The need for more standardized bid documents and for an appraisal of major
sub-project proposals to be carried out is now well understood by LA Engineers. LAs have also
adopted the Bank's SBD and the PCMU have reviewed LA documentation (sub-project
proposals, bid documents and tender evaluation reports) on behalf of GOZ and World Bank.
Thus significant experience has been gained by LAs and the PCMU in procurement matters.
However LAs and PCMU considered the Bank's constant refinements to procurement
documentation and requirements for review were overly bureaucratic, time consuming and
involved councils in increased costs. A lesson learned is that the Bank needs to establish
fundamental procurement "rules of the game" that may be sustained over full project
implementation, without disruptions in project implementation arrangements.
-- Rehabilitation and Maintenance. Many of the main infrastructure networks in Zimbabwe's
cities and towns are aging and thus rehabilitation of infrastructure should remain a priority.
-- Demand Management. Demand management before supply increase is considered particularly
important given Zimbabwe's water scarce and fragile environment.
d. Housing Related
-- Consolidation of Private Sector and non-governmental organization (NGO) Role in Housing.
Since the slump in the housing finance and housing construction industry of the early 1 990s,
mortgage lending to low-income borrowers has increased substantially. Also, an increasing
number of private high-density housing developments are being implemented as collaborative
efforts between Local Authorities, private developers and contractors, and building societies. In
addition, Local Authorities and building societies are presently exploring the potential of
working with cooperatives and the first experimental projects are underway. This new role of
Local Authorities as partners in the housing provision process requires some further adjustments
in the planning, allocation and supervisory functions carried out by Local Authorities. The
supervisory and regulatory functions of Central Government are equally important to maintain a
healthy and competitive housing and infrastructure finance system.
-- Income Levels and Affordable Housing Options. The major constraint in the delivery of
houses for lower income households remains the discrepancy between presently offered and
acceptable housing options and income and savings levels of a large proportion of urban
households. The consensus among major public and private actors in the housing sector is that it
is extremely difficult, given present standards and related construction prices, and the
inflationary environment, to provide home-ownership options to households with incomes below
those presently reached in the major urban centers. Alternative housing options that increase the
self-help component in house-construction and use of alternative micro-finance options through
intermediary non-governmental organizations or cooperatives may provide some gains in further
penetrating the lower income market and should be explored particularly for smaller urban areas
and rural councils. Direct subsidies to low income households (rather that subsidized mortgages)
also may be desirable. In addition, alternatives to housing ownership by the very poor should be
explored.
20



-- User-Friendliness of the Land Allocation, Mortgage Origination and Repayment Process.
While the present system of housing infrastructure and superstructure financing is fairly well
established at the macro-level, it is still a bewildering process for many low-income households
to go through. Local Authorities, District Councils and Building Societies have to streamline
procedures for allocation of land, the origination of mortgages and servicing of the different
loans for land and housing.
-- Land Availability and Tenure. The existing supply of land in the hands of many councils was
becoming exhausted and major land acquisitions have, or would soon, become necessary.
-- Survey, Examination and Titling procedures. The current procedures (and/or their operation)
of the Surveyor General's Department have to be streamlined if delays in plot consolidation and
occupancy, and the attendant costs to Local Authorities and beneficiaries alike are to be avoided.
-- Waiting Lists and Effective Demand. Although waiting lists are used widely by local
authorities, building societies and international agencies as an indicator of demand for home-
ownership by different income categories, they do not contain adequate information on
household income, preferences and savings to form the basis for major investment decisions on
present low-income housing projects with narrow income specifications. This is, of course,
particularly the case where the size of planned projects is relatively close to the total number of
households on the list in that income bracket.
-- Waiting Lists and the Plot Allocation Process. While waiting lists provide a sense of fairness
in the distribution of scarce housing resources in urban areas, the present process of plot
allocation through the waiting lists requires adjustment in the light of the increasing participation
of private and non-governmental actors in the provision of medium and high density housing.
-- Servicing Standards. In recent years central government has done much to reduce housing
costs by relaxation of hitherto entrenched planning and engineering standards. Such standards
should continue to be rigorously examined with the objective of generating further cost savings.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(i) In general, the original objective of providing sufficient primary infrastructure, housing
infrastructure and urban services in the LAs has been satisfactorily achieved and all the local
authorities are now in a better position to embark on further development in order to meet
population increase.
(ii) The original objective of strengthening the capacity of central and local government
institutions was satisfactorily achieved, since a more rigorous appraisal exercise has now become
the norm before any project to be funded through PSIP is approved. Most of the councils are
now using strategic planning for their future developments.
21



(iii) The objective of ensuring that the LAs have continued self-sufficiency was satisfactorily
achieved in that LAs came out of a deficit situation. However, due to factors outside their
control all LAs are now having cash flow problems thereby overshadowing the already achieved
objective of making surpluses.
(iv) Councils now have much better infrastructure than was the case before the project. All
councils have benefited from the project through purchases of the requisite vehicles, plant and
equipment to enable them to undertake proper maintenance of their infrastructure. Thus, the
objective of helping councils to protect their capital assets through improved maintenance-related
activities has been satisfactorily achieved.
(v) The objective of strengthening the human resource capacity of LAs was satisfactory
achieved as all LAs are now well positioned to maintain their infrastructure services. Their
financial management has improved remarkably. However, the drawback is that despite the
amount of capacity building given to LAs through the project, LAs are failing to retain trained
staff due to poor conditions of service. This problem has led to some of the LAs failing to
produce the audited accounts as stipulated in the Urban Councils' Act.
(vi) Over 30,000 plots for low income housing were serviced during the implementation of the
project and support was given to the Building Societies in order that they gave greater focus to
providing housing finance for the low income. To a great extent the objective of maximizing the
role of the private sector in housing and relieving the burden on government was thus achieved.
However, with the macro-economic climate worsening throughout the project period, Building
Societies ran short of Mortgage funds, and beneficiaries found it evermore difficult to obtain, and
afford, mortgages resulting in a slow pace in the construction of houses.
(vii) The original objective for the pilot regional development component was revised. The
revised objective to provide industrial incubator sites for the small scale entrepreneur was
satisfactorily achieved in Bulawayo, Rusape and Marondera but not yet in Chitungwiza (which
failed to receive acceptable bids). However, work is continuing through the Council's Force
Account operation.
(viii) The Borrower is considered to have performed satisfactorily and the project generally
implemented satisfactorily although because of, predominantly, start-up delays the project was
extended three times (1 year each).
(ix) The Bank, and other donors, are also considered to have performed satisfactorily overall
although the Bank's review and approval process regarding procurement documentation was, on
occasions, considered to have taken too long and there were also incidences of disbursement
problems which could have been resolved more expeditiously.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
22



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
23



Annex I
Page I of 2
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
A. Submission of Audited Accounts
A. 1. % submitted by March 31, 1997 for FY95/96             15%                                15%
A.2. % submitted by March 31, 1998 for FY96/97              15%                                5%
A.3. % submitted by March 31, 1999 for FY97/98              100%                               5%
B. Institutional Capacity Building
B. 1. Training days                                        440                                 440
C. Financial Performance
C. l. % of LAs achieving annual surplus for FY97/98         100%                               72%
C.2. % of LAs with accumulated surplus at June 30, 1998     100%                               45%
D. Housing Infrastructure
D. 1. Number of plots serviced                              32,000                             30,289
D.2. Number of plots allocated                              32,000                             28,500
D.3. Number of plots with building started                  20,000                             19,754
D.4. Number of plots occupied                               15,000                             15,640
D.5. Cost per plot/m2 (in ZS)                               80                                 83
D.6. Sub-projects appraised number                          53                                 53
D.7. Contracts issued - NumberNalue (Z$)                    21/Z$181,241,000                   24/ZS389,928,838
D.8. Force Accounts Awarded - NumberNalue (Z$)              30/Z$227,710,000                   32/Z$237,461,000
E. Housing Finance
E. 1. Applications for Mortgages - NumberNalue              26,000/Z$780 million               29,328/ Z$879m
E.2. Approved Mortgage - NumberNalue                        20,000/Z$800 million               22,432/Z$570m
E3. Beneficiary Incomes                                     Z$O - Z$8,450                      ZSO - ZSI 1,000
F. Primary Infrastructure and Urban Services
F. 1. No of sub projects appraised                          75                                 75
F.2. Contracts issued - NumberNalue                         189/Z$I,556,784,000                181/Z$1,702,857,000
F.3. Tenders approved - NumberNalue                         137/Z$1,662,329                    139/Z$1,702,857,000
F.4. Force Accounts awarded -NumberNalue                    77/Z$252,883,000                   75]Z$281,355,000
F.5. Size of PSIP allocation (Target FY2000)                N/A                                N/A
G. Annual Disbursements
G. I. % of overall disbursements                            85%                                94%
G.2. Annual expenditures by LAs
Allocations FY99                                     N/A                                N/A
Actual Spent FY99                                    Z$810 million                      ZS960 million
H. Impact of the FPP
H. I. % of councils which have a strategic plan             100%                               66%
H.2. % of councils using it as a strategic tool             100%                               66%
H.3. % of councils whose financial performance has
Improved due to the strategic plan                   100%                               66%
H.4. % of councils whose financial performance has improved
Due to previous strategies (e.g. FPP)                 100%                               66%



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
o,tonme / hIpact Xfftators.
,bJn~~trMatx                                          PrJteStB ~in pt E;Rt                AtIL         EstlumMe
1. Extent of use of standardized accounting and budgeting systems
1.1. % of councils using the standardized accounting and
budgeting systems                                       100%                                100%
1.2. % of councils using the computerized accounting package  100%                                100%
1 End of project



Annex 2
Page I of 3
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appramsa         Actuil/at*st Etimate      Percentag of
PLoj~ct Cqt00ji  Ry:2: T L : C:mpenent     US000;X;0V00000:002 ;L0C:Cf; USmi 0   ion:US $million
(a) HOUSING INFRASTRUCTURE
(i) Land Acquisition                                   0.92
(ii) On-Site Infrastructure
Land Preparation                                   2.52                  .
Cadastral Survey                                   2.03                  1.5                  74%
Roads & Storm Water                                33.99                 7.9                  23%
Sewerage                                           15.92                7.16                  45%
Street Lighting                                    2.93                 3.17                  108%
Water Supply                                       15.04                7.16                  48%
(iii) Design & Supervision                             5.89                 2.04                  35%
Subtotal                                           79.24                28.93                  37%
(b) HOUSING FINANCE
(i) Provision of Mortgages                            241.96               26.69                  11%
(ii) Computer Equipment                                6.31                  7.78                 12.3%
Subtotal                                           248.27                34.47                 14%
(c) COMMUNITY FACILITIES
(i) Schools, Clinics                                   13.99                6.73                  48%
(ii) Design & Supervision                              1.12                  --
Subtotal                                           15.11                 6.73                  45%
(d) ELECTRICITY FACILITIES
(i) Electricity Infrastructure                         18.90
(ii) Design & Supervision                              1.48
Subtotal                                           20.38
(e) PRIMARY INFRASTRUCTURE
(i) Infrastructure Works
Roads & Storm Water                                11.83                8.22                  69%
Water Supply                                       25.50                16.72                 66%
Sewerage                                           18.41                7.36                  40%
(ii) Design & Supervision                              5.17                 3.52                  68%
Subtotal                                           70.92                35.82                  51%
(f) URBAN SERVICES & MAINTENANCE
(i) Vehicles, spares, plants, equip.                  40.50                 40.41                 100%
(ii) Supervision                                       2.03                  =
Subtotal                                            42.53                40.41                 95%
(g) REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(i) Technical Assistance & Studies                     4.25
(ii) Vehicles & Equipment                              0.22
(iii) Pilot Capital Development Fund                   6.12                  0.5                   8%
Subtotal                                           10.59                 0.5                   5%



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
ApprIsAl          4UIIt  Estimate         Percetage of
;   - - -  -  -   Estimate  .        .     Appraisal
P*t  C   #y          _                    US $tiIoom             US SmilUon
(h) INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(i) Ministry of Local Govemment
Appr. Supp./Trng. & Studies                      2.94                0.67                 23%
Local Authority Training                         1.79                0.96                 54%
PCMU Technical Assistance                        1.99                0.05                  3%
UTU Technical Asst.lTrng.                        0.68                 --                   --
Vehicles & Equipment *                           0.64                1.59                 248%
(ii) Min. of Pub. Const. & Nat. Hsg.
Appr. Supp./Trng. & Studies                      0.95                 --                   --
Vehicles & Equipment * Now MLGNH                 0.11                3.28                2982%
Subtotal                                           9.10                6.55                 72%
Total Baseline Cost                                    496.14               153.41               31%
Physical Contingencies                                24.14                3.53                  15%
Price Contingencies                                   59.72                4.11                  7%
Total Project Costs                    580.00              161.05                28%
Total Financing Required                    580.00                161.05               28%
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
POuxw >egtLU-                                  CW    (               Total Cost
1. Civil Works                           30.00          178.00           21.0       30.00         259.00
(6.00)          (35.6)                     (6.00)         (47.6)
2. Vehicles & Equipment                   33.0            30.1                                      63.1
(20.4)          (12.0)                                    (32.4)
3. TA & Training                                                                     14.5           14.5
4. House Construction Loans                                                         242.0          242.0
5. Land Acquisition                                                                  1.4            1.4
Total                                 63.0            208.1           21.0      287.9           580.0
_    (26.4)        (47.6)                      (6.0)         (80.0)
lCompetitive bidding in accordance with cofmanciers' rules and regulations.
2 Force Account



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
1. Civil Works                  0.00          0.00                    52.8       79.68
(13.21)      (13.67)                  (0.00)      (26.88)
2. Vehicles & Equipment         0.00          0.00                    0.00        0.00
(40.41)                                           (40.41)
3. TA &Training                 0.00          0.00           6.47     0.00        6.47
(0.00)       (0.00)                  (0.00)      (0.00)
4. House Construction Loans     0.00          0.00                    26.69       26.69
(7.78)                                (0.00)     (7.78)
5. Land Acquisition             0.00          0.00                    0.00        0.00
(0.00)                                (0.00)
Total                        0.00           0.00          6.47     79.49       85.96
(61.41)       (13.67)                 (0.00)      (75.07)
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Co;'''  uw''\t        Appraisal0N--l  's' mat    AiIalAts   a e   =rai
=ao    Gov    Coa    ak 4t        Cols  .aswk   Gov   Cl..
Low/Moderate Income
Housing
On-site Infrastructure  23.61   82.88        13.67  19.80     -     58%   24%      -
Housing Finance                     241.98    -       -    26.69     -      -    11%
Computer Equipment   7.15                    7.78     -            109%    -       -
Community Facilities    4.27   21.36           1.86   6.72            44%   31%
Electricity Supply      7.63   20.17             -      -       ..      -      -
Primary Infrastructure    24.13   68.29        11.32  25.81    ..    47%   38%
Urban Services &       31.31   23.50           40.41    -             129%    -
Maintenance
Regional Development   2.40   11.13            0.03   0.47             1%    4%
Institutional           0.50    6.71    3.00     -      -     6.47      -      -   216%
Development
'Competitive bidding in accordance with cofinanciers' rules and regulations.



Annex 3
Page I of I
Annex 3: Economics Costs and Benefits
Econo'nicRate of Rdu     I'll    met ApPM'isal              tt tx t
Housing Infrastructure
Component                       20.0                         24.3



Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Identification1PMeparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision 1             08125/89     1       Urban Planner                       I                I
Supervision 2             04/13/92  2        1 OA, I Sanita,y    Eng.              2                S
Supervision 3             11/02/92   1       Urban Specialist                      3                3
Supervision 4             07/11/93  3        1 TM, I Ec, I FA                      3                3
Supervision 5             02608/94  2        1 TM, 2 EcoFA                         3                3
Supervision 6             10/31/94  4        1 TM, I Municipal Eng.                S                S
I FA, I Ec
Supervision 7             06/15/95  5        1 TM, I PO, I Municipal               S                S
Eng., 1 Ec, I FA                      S               S
Supervision 8             01/26/96  5        2 TM, 2 Economist, I                  S                S
Municipal Eng.
Supervision 9             08/02/96  3        1 TM, 1 Municipal Eng., 1             S                S
FA
Supervision 10            02/20/97  6        1 TM, 1 OA, 2 DO,   1                 S                S
Municipal Eng., I Ec, I LGS
Supervision 11           111/19/97  4        1 T      A    Municipal               S                S
Eng., I LGS
Supervision 12            04127/98  5        1 TL, I TM, I OP, I                   S                S
Municipal Eng., I LGS
Supervision 13            10121198  5        I TM, I OP, I LGS, I PO, I            S                S
Municipal Eng.,
Supervision 14            03126/99  6        1 TM, I OP, 2 PO, I LGS, I            S                S
Municipal Eng.,
ICR                       11/01199   2       I Task Manager                        S                S
I Operations Officer
I Municipal Engineer,
I Program Assistant
Staff Skills:                        Performance Ratings:     Type of Problems:
Ec = Economist                       I - Minor or No Problems    LP: Labor Problems
OP = Operations Officer              2 - Moderate Problems     CC: Compliance with Legal Covenants
DO = Disbursement Officer            3 - Major Problem         EN: Environment (incl. social issues)
FA = Financial Analyst               S - Satisfactory          PMP: Project Mgt Performance
TM = Task Manager                    HS - Highly satisfactory  PP: Procurement Progress
LGS = Local Gov't Specialist         U- Unsatisfactory        11: Institutional Issues
PO = Procurement Officer
La = Lawyer
OA = Operations Analyst



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
(b) Staff
St  age  oct Cycle                A      eae
.-_'_._:_-_._._-_'_-_-No. -  .-'-weeks   -.-        US$ (0)
Identification/Preparation      98.7                   161.2
Appraisal/Negotiation           45.8                    65.8
Supervision                    230.9                   559.5
ICR                              *                         *
Total                          375.40                 786.50
*The Time Recording System (TRS) does not provide a distinction of staff week time between
supervision and preparation of the ICR. Therefore, the category "Supervision" above includes
both implementation supervision as well as the time and resources required to prepare this ICR.



Annex 5
Page 1 of I
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
[]Macro policies                          [ ]H [ ]SU [X]M  [ N  [ ]NA
[]Sector Policies                         [] H [X]SU []M [ ]N [  NA
f] Physical                               [ ]H [X]SU []M [ IN [ NA
[]Financial                               [ ]H [ ]SU [X]M [ IN [ ]NA
[  Institutional Development              [] H [X] SU [] M [J N [ ]NA
[  Environmental
Social
[IPoverty Reduction                  [ ]H [ ]SU [X]M [ IN [ ]NA
[  Gender                            [ ]H [ ]SU [X]M [ ]N [ ]NA
[  Other (Please specify)
[IPrivate sector development              [ ]H [XI SU [ ]M [ ]N [ ]NA
[]Public sector management                [ ]H [XI SU [ ]AM  [ IN [ ]NA
[  Other (Please specify)



Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
[]Lending                                               S
[ISupervision                                           S
[] Overall                                              S
6.2 Borrowerperformance
Rating
[IPreparation                                           S
[] Government implementation performance                S
[] Implementation agency performance                    S
[  Overall                                              S



Annex 7
Page I of I
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report - May 8, 1989
Semi-Annual Report from Programme Coordination & Monitor Unit (PCMU) dated
December 31, 1999
Transferring Urban II Lessons Learned to the Design of Rural District Councils Capacity
Building Project (RDCCBP) and Local Government Development Project (LGDP), Final
Report, May 1997, Banes Dawes Associates
World Bank Final Review Mission Aide Memoire - October 28-November 11, 1999
Techfin Report



Annex 8
Page 1 of 11
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Urban Sector and Regional Development (Urban II) Project
Loan 3079-ZIM
Zimbabwe Second Urban Development Project (Urban II) was designed following staff appraisal
Report No. 7619-Zim of May 8, 1989. The project was financed by IBRD 3079-Zim loan agreement
between the Zimbabwe Govemment and the World Bank. The project was co-financed by Nordic
Development Fund and later Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation.
The following abbreviations have been used in this evaluation report:
*     LAs         Local Authorities
*     FPP         Financial Performance Plan
*     MLGNH    Ministry of Local Government and National Housing
*     MoF         Ministry of Finance
*     NEPC        National Economic Planning Commission
*     NDF         Nordic Development Fund
*     NOK         Norwegian kroner
*     NORAD    Norwegian Agency for Development Corporation
*     PCMU        Programme Co-ordination and Monitoring Unit
*     PSIP        Public Sector Investment Programme
*     SDR          Special Drawing Rights
*     US$         US Dollar
WB          World Bank
*     Z$          Zimbabwe Dollar
The World Bank loan agreement was US$ 80,000,000, NDF's budget was SDR 4.400.000 and
NORAD took over from NDF for a budget NOK 2,910,000. The following were the balances as at
30 April 2000.
Category                                     Amount in US$ Allocated   Amount Disbursed    % Disbursed
US$
1(a) Civil Works (A&B)                       28 770 000              25,614,178          88%
I(b) Electrical Reticulation
I (c) Civil Works - Part E (Reg)             500 000                 27,044              5%
1 (d) Budiriro 5 housing scheme/ Ncema Water Works  2 300 000         1,146,000           50%/o
(Originally Urban I projects spilling into Urban II)
2(a) Vehicles, Equipment                     38 100 000               40,413,151          106%
2(b) Equipment for Part B                     300 000                 -                   0%/0
2( c) Electrical Reticulation (A&B)           -                       -                   00/c
2(d) Building Societies                       7 784 492               7,784,491           100%
2(e) Vehicle & Equipment (E+F)               450 000                  92,327              21%
3 Unallocated                                 1 795 508               -                   00/e
4 Special Account
Total World Bank                              US$ 80,000,000          US$ 75,077,191      94%
Total NDF                                     SDR 4,400,000           SDR 4.366.331       99%
Total NORAD                                  NOK 2,910,000            NOK 2,730,000       94%
Notes to the Table:
Part A = Primary Urban Infrastructure and Urban Services Maintenance
Part B = Serviced Urban Residential Land and Related Community Services.
Part E = Pilot Regional Development Program
Part F = Project Administration and Monitoring



Annex 8
Page 2 of 11
I.   Original objectives
The original objectives of the Urban II project as outlined in the Staff appraisal report of 8 May 1998
were as follows:
(i)   provide support to urban centres in supplying additional urban services and housing that will
be required as a result of the projected doubling of the urban population over the next 7 to 10
years;
(ii)   strengthen the capacity of central and local Government institutions to determine the most
cost-effective investments in the urban sector and establish the most efficient scheduling for
these investments;
(iii)  ensure the continued financial self-efficiency of the urban local authorities, including
maintenance of appropriate cost recovery and revenue generating capabilities;
(iv)   protect the capital assets of urban authorities through improved maintenance-related
investments;
(v)   strengthen the human resource capacity of local authorities to enable them to efficiently
deliver, operate and maintain urban services on a sustained basis;
(vi)   maximize the role of non-Governmental, private sector, investors in housing, particularly
building societies, as a means of relieving the financial burden on Government:
(vii)  assist with the design and implementation of regional development programs focussed on the
secondary cities, small town and rural centres as alternatives to the major cities, emphasizing
in particular the promotion of employment creation in the urban areas to absorb the growing
labor force.
2.   Actual achievements
Following is an assessment on the achievements made on the original objectives of the Urban II
programme, and reasons for those achievements will be stated as well.
(i)    Provide support to urban centres in supplying additional urban services and housing that
will be required as a result of the projected doubling of the urban population over the next
7 to 10 years.
Because there had been very limited finances available for the local authorities to implement
any primary infrastructure and housing schemes after Zimbabwe obtained her independence
in 1980, there was a great need in the local authorities to augment the water and sewer supply
schemes. Also a great part of the road networks was in need of rehabilitation and repair.
Hence the major portion (60%) of the Urban II projects was within the primary
infrastructure/off-site services. Many of the LAs now have adequate water and sewer supply
systems catering for the expected development for another five to ten years. However, the
improvement of the road infrastructure did not receive sufficient attention during the
programme before the financial year 1996-97 due to limited capital budget resources.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 11
Conclusion:
In general the original objective ofproviding sufficient primary infrastructure in the LAs has
been satisfactorily achieved and all the local authorities are now in a better position to
embark on further housing developments in order to meet the ever increasing demandfor
more housing schemes.
Regarding the issue ofproviding houses for the low income population the objective of
providing serviced stands were satisfactorily met with more than 30.000 stands serviced, and
50% of these stands were actually developed and occupied. However, the rather slow pace in
the construction of houses has been mainly caused by problems in obtaining mortgages from
the building societies, and the general adverse economic conditions coupled with soaring
interest rates prevailing in the country, discouraged many potential stand owners from
entering into new loans.
(ii)   strengthen the capacity of central and local Government institutions to determine the most
cost-effective investments in the urban sector and establish the most efficient scheduling
for these investments;
At the beginning of the Urban II programme most of the councils did not have sufficient and
professional staff to carry out the necessary planning of projects especially in the two
departments of Engineering and Treasury. There was no proper system for the appraisals of
projects and PSIP funds were often allocated to projects that had not been thoroughly
evaluated and reviewed. During the first half of the project period relevant persons from all
the participating local authorities attended tailored training courses, both locally and abroad
through funds from NDF Credit. This was geared to strengthen councils' ability to carry out
sufficient planning and preparation of project proposals. However, it should be mentioned
that the smaller local authorities which qualified for Urban II after 1996, did not benefit from
the above training exercise.
With the assistance from the World Bank's mission, more rigorous and standardized
procedures for project proposals and appraisals were introduced in 1995 to ensure that
projects were cost-effective before they were accepted for implementation under the Urban II
programme. There was some initial resistance from some of the councils in using the new
procedures, but they eventually accepted these new procedures as a necessary precaution to
be taken before any project was actually implemented. Furthermore strategic planning
exercise was introduced in 1997-98, assisting councils in prioritizing the implementation of
projects to ensure that their development objectives were being met.
Conclusion:
The original objective of strengthening the capacity of central and local government
institutions was satisfactorily achieved, since a more rigorous appraisal exercise has now
become the norm before any project to be funded through PSIP is approved. Most of the
councils are now using strategic planningfor their future developments.
(iii)  ensure the continuedfinancial self-efficiency of the urban local authorities, including
maintenance of appropriate cost recovery and revenue generating capabilities;
The financial performance of LAs has significantly improved since the project started in
1991, largely due to the introduction of the 5-year Financial Performance Plan. Most of the
LAs are making surpluses in rates, water, sewerage, refuse, and housing accounts. However,



Annex 8
Page 4 of 11
all LAs are making deficits in their health account due to the levels of levies that are
controlled by Government. The LAs are given the mandate to run health services without the
accompanying resources. This has resulted in other viable accounts funding the health
deficits, resulting in cash flow problems in all LAs.
Despite the fact that all LAs are now performing better than before the project started all LAs
are having cash flow problems due to the unfunded health mandate. Further, LAs have
problems with revenue collection as debtors are not honoring their obligation to LAs largely
due to the adverse macro-economic environment prevailing in the country.
Conclusion:
The achievement was satisfactory that is of LAs coming out of the deficit situation, however,
due to factors outside their control all LAs are having cash flow problems thereby
overshadowing the already achieved objective of making surpluses.
(iv)   protect the capital assets of urban authorities through improved maintenance-related
investments;
Urban II programme implemented road rehabilitation projects and several existing water and
sewage works were either rehabilitated or augmented during the programme. The Urban II
programme has facilitated four major contracts for the purchase of necessary vehicles, heavy
plant and maintenance equipment for all the councils to be used for both construction works
and also for the necessary operation and maintenance of the infrastructure. Nineteen of the
participating councils procured specialized operation and maintenance equipment for water,
sewer and public lighting. It is expected that councils will use such equipment to better
advantage in the improvement and maintenance of their infrastructure services.
Conclusion:
The achievement was satisfactory and councils now have much better infrastructure than
was the case before. Furthermore, all councils have benefitedfrom the programme through
purchases of the requisite vehicles, plant and equipment to enable them to undertake proper
maintenance of their infrastructure.
(v)   strengthen the human resource capacity for local authorities to enable them to efficiently
deliver, operate and maintain urban services on a sustained basis;
As mentioned under point (ii) above special tailored training courses were held for the
relevant personnel in the local authorities in the field of urban planning, detailed designs,
contract management, and general operation and maintenance of municipal infrastructure.
Furthermore local training seminars in project / contract management have been held for the
project co-ordinators in the local authorities. Specialized training in the operation of sewage
treatment works has been offered to operators/engineers in councils constructing more
advanced Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR) sewage treatment works. In addition to this
specialized training most of the local authorities have sent their staff in charge of the water
and sewage works, to the general training in operation of water and sewage works being
offered by the Water and Sanitation Institute at the University of Zimbabwe.
Furthermore the Institutional Capacity Development Component of Urban II programme has
assisted councils in understanding the importance of having enough and qualified personnel
to run the urban services, and work out proper operation and maintenance routines and



Annex 8
Page 5 of 11
budgets. However, one worrying factor in this regard is the current revenue scarcity in most
of the councils which may result in councils being tempted to reduce the costs of operation
and maintenance. If this occurs, the lifespan of the investments made under the programme
will obviously be affected. Furthermore, some of the local authorities have no proper human
resource plans on how to attract and retain qualified and experienced key personnel, hence
the turnover of the professional staff has been high, creating problems in the execution of the
urban services in some councils.
Through the NDF institutional development component, all LAs staff managed to get the
necessary training to enable them to effectively undertake appraisal of Local Authority
projects, preparations of FPPs and some strategic plans and finally the production of final
accounts and submissions of audited accounts. At the start of the project some LAs were 3-5
years behind with their audits and that has been reduced to about 12-15 months at the closure
of the project. The specific training was given to Housing, Engineering and Treasury
departments. Under this institutional component, the MLGNH's staff also benefited through
training and acquisition of computers and this has enhanced maintenance of sustainable good
and effective local governance.
During the implementation of the project, a number of studies were carried out and these
have helped to strengthen the LA capacity to operate council's affairs effectively. For
instance one such study, the Commercialization study, has concluded that LAs must shed off
all non core activities and put their core competencies to the core business of councils. The
Promun accounting system, which was purchased through the NDF institutional component,
has really strengthened the financial reporting system of LAs. However, despite the fact that
LAs capacity was generally strengthened, the strengthening of institutional capacity of the
Urban Transport Unit in MLGNH was not fulfilled as the Ministry discontinued with this
Unit in 1992.
Conclusion:
The achievement was satisfactory as all LAs are now well positioned to maintain their
infrastructure services. Theirfinancial management has improved remarkably. However, the
drawback is that despite the amount of capacity given to LAs through the project, LAs are
failing to retain trained staff due to poor conditions of service. This problem has led to some
of the LAsfailing to produce the audited accounts as stipulated in the Urban Councils 'Act.
(vi)   maximize the role of non-Governmental, private sector, investors in housing, particularly
building societies, as a means of relieving the financial burden on Government:
This objective was achieved because the Building Societies and on-site contractors were
involved in the urban housing. 30289 plots were actually serviced against a target of 32 400
plots.
Conclusion:
The achievement was satisfactory in that a lot ofplots were serviced during the
implementation of the project. However, Building Societies ran out of Mortgage funds
resulting in a slow pace in the construction of houses.
(vii)  assist with the design and implementation of regional development programmesfocussed
on the secondary cities, small town and rural centres as alternatives to the major cities,



Annex 8
Page 6 of 11
emphasizing in particular the promotion of employment creation in the urban areas to
absorb the growing labor force.
The original objective was revised so it would not include the rural growth centres and focus
was skewed towards the small informal urban sector. This included the construction of
incubator sites, i.e. shells for small to medium enterprise developers. Harare, which was
originally part of this project, withdrew and Chitungwiza replaced it. However, already now
Harare City Council, after visiting Bulawayo's functioning factory shells, decided to also
embark on a similar project.
The project was implemented right at the end of the project resulting in some towns failing to
realize the expected incomes from the incubator occupiers. Because of the late
implementation of this project, the general impact is not yet known. However, it is generally
believed that the construction of factory shells will assist the councils in promoting the
small-scale industrial sector.
Conclusion:
The objective was satisfactorily achieved in Bulawayo, Rusape and Marondera but not in
Chitungwiza (whichfailed to receive responsive bidsfrom the contractors as the targeted
contractors were not used to World Bank's regulations andprocedures. The councilfinally
optedfor the use of the same type of structures of the factory shells as being used by
Marondera and Rusape, and decided to carry out the works byforce account.) The full
impact of this project can only be determined after evaluating over a period of time, as this is
a pilot scheme.
3.   Borrower's own performance
The "Borrower" for Urban II programme was the Government of Zimbabwe (Ministry of Finance),
while the planning agency was National Economic Planning Commission (NEPC) and the
implementing agency was the Ministry of Local Government and National Housing (MLGNH). The
Programme Co-ordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) was the project management unit working
on behalf of MLGNH for the Urban I and II programmes. While only 4 local authorities participated
in the Urban I programrne 21 eligible local authorities benefited from participation in the Urban II
programme.
In the following, the performance by the various parties of the Borrower has been evaluated. The
evaluation has been divided into weaknesses and strengths:
(i)  Strengths
* The Ministry of Local Government and National Housing established a Programme Co-
ordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) with professional staff to be in charge of the
implementation and monitoring of the Urban II programme. Despite some initial problems in
establishing the Programme Co-ordination and Monitoring Unit with qualified staff, the unit
soon experienced a very stable staff situation, which resulted in valuable experiences gained
under the programme being retained within the implementation unit and hence could be
shared with local authorities. This resulted in a more speedy and efficient way of
implementing the programme.



Annex 8
Page 7 of II
*  Since the Urban II programme in most of the urban councils was the major source for
securing substantial funds for implementing municipal infrastructure, councils were very
positive and committed to the execution of the programme.
* Although Central Government had limited PSIP funds to implement Urban II programme,
there was normally positive support and commitment to honor the allocations as pledged,
especially for primary infrastructure projects. However, the situation was often quite
different when it came to allocations for on-site housing projects, which did not always come
as had been planned.
*  The establishment of an inter-ministerial steering committee overseeing the implementation
of the Urban II programme created a good relationship between the Government and the
implementing agencies. This establishment gave the various ministries involved in the Urban
II programme a good opportunity of following the whole programme, and gave also all the
parties an opportunity to discuss and solve various problems which arose during the
implementation period.
*  Although the initial professional implementation capacity in the participating Local
Authorities was limited, councils soon managed to employ the necessary qualified staff
including a project co-ordinator in each LA. This, together with the training facilities offered
under the Urban II programme, resulted in substantial improvement of the implementation
capacities in councils, assisting in the overall accomplishment of the whole programme.
However, this positive effect was lost in some councils that experienced high turnover of
professional staff due to poor conditions of service.
(ii)  Weaknesses
*  Since the Urban II programme was prepared and appraised more than 10 years ago, the
economic situation in Zimbabwe has changed drastically. Because of the adverse
development in the macro economic environment during the course of the Urban II
programme, the country's ability to provide the necessary local upfront funding for the
projects via the Public Sector Investment Programme gradually worsened. This resulted in
limited PSIP allocations for the Urban II programme and became a restraining factor for the
pace of implementation of the whole programme. Many projects had to be phased over
several years in order to secure sufficient funds. Furthermore, the severe depreciation of the
local currency during the programme period reduced the PSIP allocations in real terms,
slowing down the rate of loan disbursement. To alleviate this problem and allow Zimbabwe
Government to benefit from the whole loan amount, the loan agreement was amended in
1997 to increase the reimbursement percentage by the World Bank from 30% to 50%.
Furthermore, Zimbabwe Government and World Bank subsequently agreed on three one
year's extensions of the Urban II programme, (1997,1998 and 1999).
*  Insufficient initial professional capacity in local authorities to prepare project proposals and
tender documentation and lack of funds to pay for the necessary consultancy services
hampered the physical start of the Urban II programme by approximately 2 years. The lack
of professional and managerial capacity in some smaller councils resulted in further delay in
qualification for participation in the project. Originally the loan agreement did not include
any consultancy services, since those costs were supposed to be paid by the local authorities.
However, as the general economic situation deteriorated in the country, councils were not
able to pay for such services from their own coffers. In a bid to solve the problem of payment
for necessary consultancy services, the World Bank's mission facilitated in the amendment
of the loan agreement in 1994 to increase the reimbursement rate for local costs from 20% to
30%, in order to reimburse the government for consultancy services. After this problem had



Annex 8
Page 8 of 11
been successfully resolved, councils could utilize the PSIP allocations to also pay for
necessary consultancy services, and that speeded up the preparation and implementation of
the projects significantly.
*  Actual disbursements from National Housing Funds for on-site housing schemes were
normally done very late in the financial year, and sometimes some of the allocated funds
were not disbursed at all. This resulted in frustration in the local authorities, and unnecessary
delays in the implementation of housing projects. This was also the reason why the relative
high proportion of on-site housing projects were implemented by force account and councils
could also adjust the pace of the implementation with the actual funds received.
*  Non-granting of exemption for import duty and taxes for some goods purchased by the LAs
caused confusions and funding problems for some of the councils. The same practice for
granting of exemption should have been upheld throughout the Urban II period to maintain
consistency since this was incorporated in the original contract as signed between the
Government and World Bank.
* The Reserve Bank's regulation of not paying local contractors/suppliers in foreign currency
even in cases where much of the materials were brought from abroad, caused severe
problems for some contractors with on-going contracts during the period of the weakening
Zimbabwe dollar.
Conclusions:
In general the Borrower performed satisfactorily and the programme was implemented
successfully during the programme period, although the programme period was extended by
3 years due to various reasons as stated above.
4.   World Bank's performance
(i)   Strengths
The Bank's vast and worldwide experience was an asset and a reassurance during the
implementation of the programme, both to the government, PCMU and the local authorities.
Procurement workshops conducted by World Bank/PCMU enhanced the understanding of
World Bank's procurement documents.
* The regular visits by the Bank's mission proved to very fruitful, and many practical
implementation problems were discussed and resolved during those visits. The fact that the
staffing of these visits was stable and some had also participated in the initial preparation and
appraisal of the programme gave a very good continuation and understanding of the
problems the programme was facing. The mission was also able to follow up problems with
World Bank Washington if they could not be resolved during the visits. The mission also
gave important advice on establishing and maintaining useful tracking tables for project
implementation.
The following issues were discussed with the Bank's mission team and this resulted in their
being formally incorporated in the Urban II programme::
* Inclusion of consultancy fees in the project costs, by increasing the reimbursement percentage
from 20% to 30% (1994).
* Revised and adopted procedures for appraisal of sub projects (1995).



Annex 8
Page 9 of II
* Increase of the reimbursement from 30% to 50% due to the general depreciation of the local
dollar to enable the Zimbabwe Government to fully utilize the whole amount as set aside in
the loan agreement (1996).
* Increase of the threshold for internal handling by PCMU without any prior approval by the
Bank from US$ 250.000 to US$ 750.000, resulted in reduced lead time in the preparation of
documents for many projects and hence a speedier implementation of those projects (1996).
* Practical solution to reimbursements by the World Bank on civil contracts where the contract
price was stated in two currencies (1997).
*  The World Bank showed an objective approach to the many environmental changes
occurring in Zimbabwe during the Urban II period, and demonstrated in many cases a
willingness and ability to make the necessary amendments to the loan agreement. This
assisted the Government in implementing and accomplishing the Urban lI programme
through the varying and often difficult environment.
*  The certainty that necessary foreign currency was always available, provided that all the
World Bank's procurement procedures were followed, was a great help in the planning and
accomplishment of the Urban II programme's objectives.
*  The local World Bank's office in Harare assisted PCMU positively in discussions on
practical implementation problems and general procurement issues.
(ii) Weaknesses
*  The rather rigid rules and procedures of the World Bank's procurement system caused a lot
of initial problems for councils and consultants in understanding and adapting to the Bank's
guidelines. This resulted in many revisions of tender documents being made, delaying the
start up of several sub projects. However, after World Bank's / PCMU's procurement
workshops, both the consultants and the councils became conversant with the standard
bidding documents to be used for the various types of contracts.
*  The many changes / amendments made to the Bank's standard bidding documents frustrated
most of the local authorities, consultants and PCMU, and caused a lot of extra work delaying
the preparation of tender and contract documents. However, for the last few years there have
been less changes to the documents, and most of those implemented have been issued on
diskettes so all the parties involved could easily upgrade the documents.
*  In some cases the World Bank did not acknowledge use of practical engineering judgements
in contract management. This caused general concern amongst the local authorities,
consultants and contractors. As an example when the local currency heavily depreciated in
November 1997, the on-going fixed price contracts were severely affected, especially those
contracts where imported goods had been priced in local currency. However, the World Bank
ruled out that since the contracts were signed as fixed price contracts, it was impossible to
compensate the contractor for the depreciation of the local currency.
*  The frequent changes of the World Bank staff members especially in the procurement office
at times caused confusions in knowing whom to approach when guidance was needed in
certain cases, and often the people assigned to certain tasks were on missions and could not
be reached.
The time required for the World Bank to review and approve tender and contract documents
was generally too long, and this delayed the starting up of many projects. Attempts by the
World Bank in involving the Bank's local office staff to scrutinize all the documents before
forwarding the documents to Washington, in order to reduce the review works in



Annex 8
Page 10 of 11
Washington, did not result in any reduction of review time. This was mainly due to the fact
that the persons at the local office were not approved procurement persons and hence the
procurement office in Washington had to do the same review works as earlier. Instead of
reducing the review time, the involvement of the local office in some cases resulted in longer
delays than normal.
Conclusion:
Generally the World Bank performed satisfactorily during the Urban IIperiod, although the
above issues need to be addressed in future projects.
5.   Lessons learnt /recommendations for new projects
In general the implementation of the Urban II programme went smoothly despite the following
experiences from the programme which should be considered in future programmes:
*  Any changes / amendments to the Standard Bidding Document should be issued on diskette
for easier revision of the bidding documents. Also all the implementing agencies of World
Bank funded programmes should be advised when changes are made. This would ensure
always use of the latest versions of the standard bidding documents.
* Payment terms (number of days) for foreign currency have to be revised to cater for the
actual time required to get the payments through the system. (Contractor - Project Manager
- Council - PCMU - World Bank-Contractor) to reduce interest charges on late payments,
which can not be paid by the project's account and hence have to be settled from council's
own resources.
* A lot of councils and consultants have complained about the strict qualification criteria for
the annual turnover for a bidder to be viewed as responsive (2,5 times the annual project
costs), which they alleged being unnecessarily barring smaller companies from bidding on
contracts based on World Bank's guidelines. These information criteria should be reviewed
for each new programme in order to try and encourage participation by local smaller
contractors, if possible.
*  World Bank's guidelines generally recommend fixed price system for contracts with duration
of up to 18 months. However, the Urban II programme has shown that fixed price contracts
should only be used as long as the economic situation in a country is stable.
At the initiation of the programme there was quite a bit of resistance against embarking on fixed
price contracts, however, the councils soon realized that it was much easier to prepare budgets
and secure sufficient funds for fixed price contracts and hence accepted such contracts. The fixed
price system, however, discouraged some contractors from participating under the programme,
since they were not used to and not willing to accept the fixed price system, and the few received
bids were often overpriced to cushion the contractors from loosing out in cases of price
escalation.
*  The high price increase experienced in Zimbabwe during the last two years, forced the
project to include price variation clauses in all new contracts, and this resulted in difficulties
for the councils in budgeting for the works to be done. Many of the tendered prices came
much higher than the budgeted amounts, and in several cases the intended works had to be
scaled down or the contracts retendered.
* The World Bank's insistence on using the general price increase formulae as included in the
standard bidding documents caused a lot of problems in the implementation of price



Annex 8
Page 11 of 11
variation contracts. This was because the indices were not always updated and published
regularly every month. This created a lot of arguments between the contractors and the
consultants when it came to calculation of the actual price increases. Most consultants and
contractors expressed preference for the continuing use of the "proven cost system" which
had been in use in Zimbabwe for a long period, however, the Bank did not accept that.
Alternative ways of calculating price variations than the World Bank formulae should
therefore be addressed and accepted in cases where the indices are not published regularly.
*  The World Bank's central filing system appeared not to be functioning well, and this
sometimes caused frustrations and disappointment at PCMU during the implementation of
the programme, especially when it came to procurement / payment issues. Several times
World Bank Washington requested PCMU to provide documentation, which in fact had
already been submitted to the Bank, and PCMU then had to resubmit the documentation.
This consequently resulted in delays in the handling process of the affected
projects/payments.
*  The World Bank should decentralize some of its operational decisions to their local office.
The same office should be given a special threshold for the local World Bank Office for
handling and giving No-objections of tender documents and tender evaluation reports. This
threshold should be higher than that for internal handling by the Borrower, and only
contracts higher than this local threshold should be sent to World Bank, Washington for
approval and No-objections. In this way the World Bank's local office can really play a vital
role and be a facilitator in implementation of future World Bank funded projects.
*  On a more positive note the World Bank has shown foresight in identifying successor
projects to ensure continuity in the provision of municipal services (Urban I - Urban II -
Local Government Capital Development Programme). This has already and will indeed
continue to assist the local authorities to cope with the demand for infrastructure due to the
ever increasing urban local authorities' population.
*  During the Urban II programme the project experienced several contract management
problems caused by poor relationship between the Project managers (consultants) and the
councils. In some cases the councils did not participate enough in the designs and preparation
stage of the contract documents, resulting in costly decisions made by consultants without
the council's consent. It should be mentioned that Urban II initiated dialogue between the
councils and the Consulting Engineer's Association in order to revise and improve upon the
current forms of contracts and conditions being used for consultancy services. The councils
felt that the old forms of contract were too consultant friendly and did not sufficiently take
care of the council's interests, i.e. fee structuring system, ownership of designs and
calculations, and financial liability due to consultant's faulty designs. It has been
recommended to councils that for future projects the contracts for consultancy services have
to be more balanced and fair to all parties.






IBRD 21400R
7]                             IM  IW                                              28'           2d -r .r
ZAMBIA            r
NAMIBA          INA  L v 
Mao S tot oad                                                   4t                                                      s                     Es
BOTSWANA                                    iA    o7~.t
SOUTH          R            Or    r                       7A,
A F R I C A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    own 
U  RBANlod SECTORc ANDdale \-Q$5 -N o\av                                                                                                                      __                   R  /et>,,,   ;ErdgPPsesr
Plt Arasn Airorthe -- nRegnional Deeopnais[<\   1J,me wient P ,r eogra
2    S     eliilede Towns/Yiof  -XtSi Reiewed ;for\ irolsion Udersv the Poet
2L                          26=1'T 
I    Eligible Towns to be Reviewed for incios-on Under the ProlA t9
Com9so Land
-   Major Stain Roads ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~       ~        ~       ~
Socondary State Roads ~ ~ ~  ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       GW
URSeecte ooS/ECTagOR    N
Noationalf Capi al      nA-                                                                                                                                          h,CenterAsv OrAA~.A wy
-21           P2t Arasto,SOUTHio.I                                                                                                   AFRICAt og
E: gibi. T.", R-!.~~~~~.d f., HdW,im lj.~~~~~I., th. P,.j.0                                                                                          AYT198



