      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      MR-Higher Education (FY05) (P087180)



                                                                                                                Report Number : ICRR0020175


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                            Project Name
 P087180                                               MR-Higher Education (FY05)

 Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
 Mauritania                                            Education



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-39700                                            30-Jun-2010                                                             15,510,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  03-Aug-2004                                          30-Oct-2013

                                                             IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           15,000,000.00                                                           0.00

  Revised Commitment                                               5,466,869.70                                                         0.00

  Actual                                                           6,169,279.04                                                         0.00




 Sector(s)
 Tertiary education(100%)

 Theme(s)
 Education for the knowledge economy(100%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator             Group
 Judith Hahn Gaubatz                Erik A. Bloom                       Joy Behrens                        IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    According to the Development Credit Agreement (page 17), the project objective was to assist in the implementation of higher education
    reform:



       • To improve the quality and relevance of instruction; and
       • Institutional development of the university and institutions of higher education, through the reinforcement of their
       pedagogical and financial management.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          MR-Higher Education (FY05) (P087180)




      According to the Project Appraisal Document (page 7), the project objective was to help the government of Mauritania to implement its
     strategy of producing qualified graduates with the skills needed for increased productivity and diversification of its economy. The project was
     designed:



          • To improve the quality of the learning environment and the relevance of courses to the labor market; and
          • To establish pedagogic, administrative and financial management systems in the [institutes of higher education].



     The results framework was revised during a project restructuring in March 2012 in order to clarify indicators (wording of key indicators was
     clarified, several indicators were added to more clearly measure project impact, and others were dropped). However, the objectives and
     outcome targets were not substantively revised. Therefore, for the purposes of this review, a split outcome rating was not derived.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     1. Quality and Relevance of Higher Education (Appraisal: US$ 13.04 million; Actual: US$ 4.91 million): This component aimed to support
     the government's strategy to modernize university instruction, including increasing its relevance to the needs of the economy. Activities
     included: the development of short courses with stronger professional orientation; "twinning" arrangements for university faculty with
     various international research and training institutions; development of an accreditation process; and construction and equipping of a
     modern library and distance learning center.
     2. Institutional Development (Appraisal: US$ 2.47 million; Actual: US$ 0.90 million): This component aimed to support the government's
     implementation of the new policy framework for higher education, the main thrust of which is to transfer autonomy (in the areas of strategic
     goal setting, budgets, instructional programs, and personnel management) to the university and other institutes of higher education.
     Activities included: training of administrative and managerial staff in planning, student services, finance, and personnel management;
     establishment of an integrated management information system (which includes information on admissions, student records, financial
     management, and inventories); and construction and equipping of a University Administrative Center.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project cost

          • The actual project cost was US$ 6.6 million, compared to the appraised cost of US$ 15.5 million. The significant shortfall
          was primarily due to the cancellation of civil works (and activities dependent upon completion of those works) in Component 1 (library
          and distance learning center) and Component 2 (university administrative center), which experienced persistent delays and were only
          partially completed by project closing.



     Financing

          • The project was to be financed primarily by a Bank Credit of US$ 15.0 million. However, the actual Credit amount was US$ 6.2
          million due to significant shortfalls in implementation.
          • Approximately US$ 8.95 million from the Credit was cancelled.



     Borrower contribution
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       MR-Higher Education (FY05) (P087180)




       • The actual Borrower contribution was US$ 0.3 million, compared to the appraised estimated of US$ 0.5 million.



    Dates

       • August 2008: A coup d'état took place in the country, which led to the suspension of all Bank activity for 15 months, until November
       2009.
       • November 2009: The project was restructured to extend the closing date from June 2010 to March 2012. This extension was
       approved in light of the lengthy period of suspended activity. Due to an increase in construction costs during the intervening period,
       project proceeds were reallocated from "unallocated" category to civil works.
       • March 2012: The project was restructured again, including the revision of the results framework (i.e. clarification of indicators) and
       extension of the closing date to October 2013, in order to allow for completion of activities.
       • June 2013: The three main civil works activities (central library, distance learning center, and university administrative center) were
       dropped from the project due to lengthy implementation delays. Approximately US$ 8.95 million was cancelled from the Credit.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The project objectives were and remain highly relevant to the main challenges facing the higher education sector in the country. The primarily
   low-skilled labor market was indicative of the low quality and relevance of higher education. The quality of instruction is inadequate, owing to
   poor facilities, outdated content and instructional methods, lack of access to quality materials and information, and limited training and
   professional development opportunities for faculty. Similarly, the relevance of course content is poor due to lack of linkages with the existing
   labor market needs, and limited dialogue between educational institutions and leading industries. The government has been prepared to
   embark on a major higher education reform effort; however, it possessed limited capacity to implement the proposed policies and frameworks.

   The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for FY2003 - 2006 identified developing human resources, including through higher education, as a
   strategic focus, and the current Country Partnership Strategy for FY2014 - 2017 includes the specific goal of improving access to technical and
   vocational training as a key outcome. There was no official government strategy for higher education at the time of project appraisal, and the
   existing Education Sector Development Program (2001-2011), which was developed by the government with the support of development
   partners, did not include a strong focus on higher education. However, the subsequent Poverty Reduction Strategy (2011-2015) and the
   country's Higher Education Law have provided a clearer articulation of the need to address challenges in the higher education sub-sector,
   particularly modernizing the university system.




   Rating
   Substantial


b. Relevance of Design

   The project design responded to some of the most pressing challenges in the higher education sub-sector, which was marked by low quality of
   instruction and low relevance to labor market needs. Quality of instruction was to be improved through upgraded faculty skills, upgraded
   standards for university degrees and licenses, and construction of modern facilities (which included information technology upgrades
   to increase access for teachers, researchers and students to information). Relevance of instruction was to be improved through the creation of
   more professionally-oriented short-term courses and a pedagogical shift to more hands-on and applied learning. The project also supported the
   implementation of higher education reform efforts, the first step of which was to transfer autonomy of pedagogy and management from the
   government to the education institutions. This increased autonomy was expected to provide institutions with greater flexibility in managing
   financial resources and personnel to meet academic and labor market needs.

   However, while these interventions were substantially relevant, the pace or timing required in the plan for full effective completion appears
   ambitious. The timeliness of implementation was a critical element in the project design given that several activities were dependent on the
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               MR-Higher Education (FY05) (P087180)



       completion of civil works and progress on the higher education policy framework.




       Rating
       Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To improve the quality and relevance of instruction

    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Creation of 29 professionally-oriented programs (target: 8). More information on the fields covered by these programs is not reported
        in the ICR.
        • Upgrading of 34 programs into Bachelors, Masters and Doctorate degree programs (target: 9) at 4 institutes of higher education
        (IHEs) (target: 6). Upgrading measures included adoption of curriculum that adheres to the new degree structure, establishment of
        research groups, and development of doctoral training with research foci.
        • Training of 235 senior lecturers (target: 65) and 200 faculty staff (target: 100) for professionally-oriented courses.
        • Participation of 379 faculty from the University of Nouakchott in twinning arrangements with various research and training institutions
        to facilitate transfer of skills and curricula. According to the ICR (page 40), the program was considered so successful that the university
        is attempting to renew them under other financing.
        • Installation of computers and internet access on existing campuses. Due to the failure to complete construction of new facilities, the
        original project activity to install a complete ICT network for use by teachers, students, and researchers was not implemented.
        • Provision of equipment and teaching materials in science and technology subject areas.



    However,

        • The key activity to construct a modern central library was only partially completed, and the related training activities for library staff
        were therefore not implemented.
        • The key activity to construct a Distance Learning Center was only partially completed, and the related training activities for Center
        staff were therefore not implemented.
        • A labor market tracer study was not completed as planned.



    Outcomes
    Quality of learning environment

        • The number of teaching staff meeting minimum qualifications increased from 230 in 2004 to 619 in 2012. This surpassed the target of
        400. The ICR does not provide information on what the qualifications were or how they were measured; therefore, attribution to the
        project interventions is unclear.
        • Facilities saw some improvement with the installation of internet access and provision of science and technology teaching materials;
        however, the two key activities that would significantly increase access to a wide range of academic and research fields were not
        completed.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               MR-Higher Education (FY05) (P087180)




    Relevance of courses to the labor market

        • The proportion of higher education students enrolled in professionally-oriented programs increased from 7.0% in 2004 to 22.5% in
        2013. This surpassed the target of 12.0%.
        • The proportion of students enrolled in science and technology subject areas increased from 7.0% in 2004 to 25.5% in 2013. This
        surpassed the target of 12.0%.
        • The proportion of students employed six months after graduation increased from 20.0% in 2004 to 50.0% in 2012. This surpassed the
        target of 40.0%. However, according to the ICR, this data was self-reported from the Science, Technology and Medical University and
        could not be validated in the absence of a tracer study.



    Achievement of this objective is rated Modest for improved quality of instruction, due to significant shortfalls in implementation, and
    Modest for improved relevance of instruction, due to limited evidence of outcomes.




    Rating
    Modest

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Institutional development of the university and institutions of higher education, through the reinforcement of their pedagogical and financial
     management

    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Introduction of legislative reforms to lay the foundation for greater autonomy for IHEs. However, the specific nature of the project’s
        support for this output are unclear.
        • Development of a performance contract between the government and IHEs, which would form the basis for the future levels of
        government financing. However, the contract is still awaiting government approval and therefore has not yet been implemented.
        • Development of a procedures manuals to transfer administrative autonomy to IHEs. However, the manual is still awaiting government
        approval and therefore has not yet been implemented.
        • Development of an IHE institutional development plan, which would form the basis for each of the nine IHE’s specific plans. However,
        the plan is currently being used only on an ad hoc basis.
        • Development of an integrated management information system (for student services, finance, human resources, planning and
        monitoring) for IHEs. Only a pilot phase is underway at one university.
        • Creation of committees responsible for pedagogic autonomy in each of the nine IHEs.
        • Partial construction of a new university administrative center. The related activities to develop a financial and accounting
        management system and to train administrative staff were not completed.



    Outcomes

        • Five IHEs began generating revenue through tuition fees.
        • Outputs reported may have contributed to institutional development particularly in the areas of pedagogical and financial
        management.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         MR-Higher Education (FY05) (P087180)




 However,

    • The Higher Education Law was approved by government in July 2010. The Executive Order ushering in the Law was actually issued
    in 2006, although the approval did not take place until 2010 and therefore implementation of the Law and its related decrees were
    delayed until then. However, as the specific nature of the project's support in this area is not clearly reported in the ICR, attribution of
    this achievement to the Bank's support is also not clear. Similarly, attribution of the project interventions to the passage of decrees in
    support of the higher education reform (organization of scientific research, scholarship programs, introduction of fees for professional
    programs, and establishment of regulatory bodies) is not clear.



 Achievement of this objective is rated Negligible due to lack of strong attribution of project interventions to achievements, and significant
 shortfalls in implementation.




 Rating
 Negligible



5. Efficiency

 Although several project activities were completed as planned and even surpassed targets (creation of professional courses, training of staff
 and faculty), project implementation is overall marked by significant shortcomings that affected efficiency. There were substantial delays in
 the launch of civil works activities, in part due to inadequate preparation, as well as political upheaval which led to a 15 month suspension of
 project activity. There were two project extensions (the first for 21 months and the second for 19 months) which added more than three years
 to the original project period, but did not result in completion of main outputs (although the ICR indicates that the government plans to finish
 construction with its own budget). There were also increases in construction costs which meant that the main outputs would likely have been
 delivered at higher than expected costs. Lastly, the cancellation of a significant amount of the Credit did not take place until June 2013; this
 implies that almost US$ 9.0 million of resources remained unused that could have been allocated elsewhere. Therefore, efficiency in the use
 of project resources is rated Modest.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?              Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             0
 Appraisal                                                                 0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             0
 ICR Estimate                                                              0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         MR-Higher Education (FY05) (P087180)




Outcome - Unsatisfactory
Relevance of the project objectives is rated Substantial, while relevance of the project design is rated Modest due to the lack of realism in timing
and sequencing of key project interventions. Achievement of the objective to improve the quality of the learning environment and relevance of
courses to the labor market is rated Modest for quality due to significant shortfalls in implementation and Modest for relevance due to limited
evidence of outcomes. Achievement of the objective to improve institutional development of the university and institutions of higher education is
rated Negligible due to lack of strong attribution of project interventions to achievements, and significant shortfalls in implementation. Efficiency
is rated Modest due to failure to complete the three major civil works and their related activities.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Unsatisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Gains in institutional capacity are somewhat likely to be sustained, due to the institutionalization of programs such as the short-term professional
courses and twinning arrangement. Although the Higher Education Law and related decrees were approved by the government,
operationalization of the reforms (i.e. performance contracts, institutional development plans) is moving forward more slowly than envisioned.
The major civil works activities were dropped from the project, although the government has indicated its commitment to complete those
works using its own resources. Therefore, the risk to sustaining outcomes is Substantial.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project design was clearly responsive to the major challenges facing the higher education sub-sector. However, particularly given the
     ambitious project objectives, quality at entry was marked by shortcomings in preparation and risk assessment.

     Critical prerequisite studies - including the campus master plan, and architectural studies - were not completed by project effectiveness. This
     delay in completing architectural studies led to further delays in the bidding process and the launch of the civil works activities. Also, the
     project objective statement in the DCA (Schedule 2) was articulated differently from that in the PAD (page 7) - although similar in substance -
     and the key project indicators identified in the PAD (page 7) were not included in the DCA (Schedule 5).

      In addition, the time needed to implement the construction activities, as well as for the higher education reform measures to move forward
     was underestimated. While the PAD acknowledges this latter risk as a critical lesson learned from previous operations, the risk assessment
     does not properly identify it as a significant (or high) risk. The risk of inadequate capacity to implement major civil works was also not properly
     addressed, nor the “real possibility that major political shifts and/or political instability would arise and persist” (ICR, page 9). An overall risk
     rating of “Significant” would have been more appropriate than the assigned “Modest” rating. Lastly, the M&E design was built on the
     ambitious assumption that the planned management information system (MIS) would be functional in a timely manner; however, this did not
     take place.




     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     The project implementation period was significantly impacted by political instability. A coup d'état took place in 2008 that led to a suspension of
     all Bank activities in the country for 15 months. This, along with persistent changes in government staff, affected the pace and momentum of
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      MR-Higher Education (FY05) (P087180)



  project activities. As a result, the Bank team recommended two lengthy project extensions in the expectation that civil works could be
  completed, which were central to achievement of the objectives. Substantial support was also provided on procurement. However, these
  activities remained incomplete by the end of the second project extension and a decision was made to drop these activities.

  The Bank team used the opportunity afforded by the second project extension to address some of the shortcomings in the results framework -
  wording of indicators was clarified but the inconsistency in the project objective statement in the PAD vs. DCA was not corrected. Despite
  continual highlighting of the M&E system as a critical area requiring further action, the ICR (page 31) reports that the lack of a functioning M&E
  system “was never fully addressed by either the Bank or the Borrower.” The ICR (page 14) reports that "implementation status reports [ISR]
  did not systematically track and report on all of the indicators as Bank teams had some flexibility in determining which indicators to include in
  these reports... the inconsistent reporting of indicators in the status reports persisted over time, but showed moderate improvements during the
  last phase of the project." In addition, the reports "did not provide concrete recommendations on how challenges could be effectively
  addressed and/or appropriate follow up." The majority of ISR ratings on Implementation Progress were in the satisfactory range, which is
  reflects lack of candor and realism.




  Quality of Supervision Rating
  Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
  The government was strongly committed to the reforms needed to transform the higher education sub-sector. It ensured adoption of the
  Higher Education Law, albeit with delays and with related decrees still to be approved and enacted. The project period following approval
  was marked by political instability, most notably a coup d'état in August 2008. As noted in the ICR (page 31) the political instability as well
  as shifts in government staff " challenged the government's ability to steer, direct, and coordinate the timely implementation of project-
  related activities." However, the government has indicated its intention to finance civil works activities that could not be completed under
  the project.



  Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  The Directorate of Education and Training Projects (DPEF) in the Ministry of Education was the project management unit. Although
  institutional capacity was initially assessed as adequate, shortcomings in procurement capacity led to persistent and ultimately unresolved
  implementation problems. Weak technical capacity and contract disputes with the firm contracted to carry out civil works also contributed
  to the shortfalls in implementation. Minor shortcomings in financial management performance during the project period were addressed in
  a timely manner although, overall, the ICR (page 32) assesses the capacity of the DPEF as only “somewhat improved” over the life of the
  project.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating
  Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       MR-Higher Education (FY05) (P087180)



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The M&E design had significant shortcomings. The key outcome indicator on improved quality and relevance ("Proportion of students in
   professional programs”) did not clearly capture the intended outcomes. The list of key indicators was not consistent between the PAD and the
   DCA, and as noted in the ICR (page 13), “some of the indicators were not explicitly defined nor was their method of calculation identified.” Data
   collection arrangements relied on IHEs to collect and report on indicators; however, this assumed that the project-supported management
   information system would be functional in a timely manner (this did not materialize and the system in fact was never fully developed). Evaluative
   activities included an assessment of employability of graduates.




b. M&E Implementation
   The results framework was revised during the project period such that wording of key indicators was clarified and several indicators were
   added with more explicit links to project achievements. However, the management information system, which was intended to collect M&E
   data, was not made fully operational. The ICR (page 14) notes that "data for the quantitative indicators were difficult to [obtain] and this
   difficulty persisted over the project life as statistics were not compiled in a systemic and easily available manner by the University and the
   IHEs." The critical activity of the labor market tracer study also was not implemented.




c. M&E Utilization
   Given the limited production of M&E data, there was little evidence of M&E utilization.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Negligible


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as an Environmental Category "B" project due to civil works; therefore, the safeguard on Environmental
   Assessment (OP 4.01) was triggered. The environmental assessment was conducted during the preparation period and identified potential
   issues such as groundwater contamination, moving of sand dunes, location of borrow pits as sources of construction materials, and
   proximity to the coastline. Mitigation measures were to be implemented by contractors as part of contract requirements. The ICR (page
   14) reports that proper documentation related to safeguards compliance was lacking and that "monitoring of the implementation of the
   Environmental Impact Assessment was not explicitly addressed in the reports submitted by the consulting firm which had been hired to
   monitor the construction." The ICR does not confirm whether compliance with safeguards was satisfactory.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial management: According to the ICR (page 15), there were no major problems in financial management performance. There were
   some shortcomings noted at various points during the project period, including delays in the submission of audit reports, limited knowledge in
   using the accounting software and preparing financial reports. However, the ICR (page 15) reports that remedial actions recommended by the
   Bank team were undertaken in a timely manner. There is no information in the ICR about any qualifications to audit reports.

   Procurement: There were significant problems in procurement throughout the project period, which had a negative impact on project
   achievements. Although measures were taken to build procurement capacity, including training, hiring of additional staff, and establishment of a
   dedicated procurement commission within the project management unit (which was supporting other donor projects), there remained persistent
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        MR-Higher Education (FY05) (P087180)



   challenges which prevented the timely implementation and sequencing of activities. Most notably, the construction firm hired for civil works
   submitted a bid that, in actuality, was too low to cover the costs of construction. As already noted, these critical civil works activities were
   ultimately cancelled.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   No unintended impacts, positive or negative, were noted.




d. Other
   Due to the Bank's support to and investment in the higher education sub-sector (including developing consensus among main stakeholders
   in the country), funding became available from other donors to support related activities such as construction of a new university campus.
   The ICR reports that financing in the amount of US$ 100.0 million has been provided by other donors.




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                Disagreements/Comment
                                                                                                                There were significant
                                                                                                                shortcomings in the relevance of
Outcome                                   Moderately Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                                                                                                                design, achievement of the
                                                                                                                objectives, and in efficiency.
                                                                                                                Operationalization of the higher
                                                                                                                education reforms (i.e.
                                                                                                                performance contracts, institutional
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                             Substantial
                                                                                                                development plans) is moving
                                                                                                                forward more slowly than
                                                                                                                envisioned.
                                                                                                                Quality at entry was marked by
Bank Performance                          Moderately Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                     significant shortcomings in
                                                                                                                preparation and risk assessment.
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory          ---
Quality of ICR                                                               Modest                             ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

Lessons from the ICR, adapted by IEG:

   • The project was centered on important policy reforms, but the design did not adequately take into consideration the complexity of such
   reform efforts. The timeline and sequencing of project activities was ambitious, particularly in the shifting political context.
   • Bank support to the sub-sector acted as a catalyst in mobilizing additional resources. The Bank's demonstrated commitment, through both
   financial and policy support, led other donors and the government to provide additional finances to the sub-sector.
   • The lack of a robust M&E design and ineffective M&E implementation deprived the project implementers and managers of a clear picture of
   project progress and achievements. The indicators were not clearly defined in the original framework; data collection arrangements
   depended on the functionality of the management information system, which was never fully implemented.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         MR-Higher Education (FY05) (P087180)



     • The project's procurement processes for the main civil works failed to ensure the quality of proposals. The contracted firm appears to have
     been selected solely on the basis of its lowest bid, but without due consideration for its technical capacity and the feasibility/realism of its
     proposal.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR provides a candid discussion of the project implementation experience and its negative repercussions on project achievements.
"Lessons Learned" are commendable for being clearly drawn from the project experience and highly relevant for future operations. However,
the discussion of the results chain could have been more clearly and succinctly presented (an analysis of achievements by “phase of
implementation” (ICR, page 18) was not relevant), including attribution of outcomes to the project interventions. Also, the assessment of
safeguards and financial management performance lacked clear information, including whether audits were unqualified and whether
compliance with all safeguards was actually fully satisfactory




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Modest
