Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.   4793
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - TPANSPORT ENGINEERING AND SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT S-017-MAI)
November 18, 1983
Industry Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT S-017-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                 .............................  i
BASIC DATA SHEET                               ..                               ii
HIGHLIGHTS ....................................................                iii
I.  INTRODUCTION ..................................................                   1
II. THE PROJECT                                   .. 2
A.  Project Preparation and Approval ..........................    2
B.  Project Description and Objectives ........................    2
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT                         .         .           3
A. Achieving Project Objectives                          ..                      4
B. Project Management                             ..                             5
C.  Training ..................................................    5
D. Use of Consultants                              ..                            5
E.  Implementation Schedule ...................................                  5
F. Supervision & Disbursements                          ..                       5
IV.  BANK ROLE .....................................................    6
V.  CONCLUSIONS ...................................................    7
A.  Lessons Learned ...........................................    7
B.  Future Action .............................................    9
ATTACHMENT
Comments from Borrower.                            .....................  10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






(i)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT S-017-MAI)
PREFACE
This report covers an Engineering Project to finance transport
and other studies for the Viphya export pulp mill project in Malawi. The
Bank first became involved with the Viphya project as executing agent for
UNDP-financed feasibility studies in 1973. Subsequently, in 1974, the
Engineering Project was undertaken in order to complete the range of
project preparation activities required.
Because of market developments, both the financial and the
economic rate of return estimated for the now postponed Viphya pulp mill
project are low. Thus, despite the extensive preparation and considerable
efforts to attract foreign private investors to the project, it has not
been possible to mobilize the large amounts of capital required.
Nevertheless, the pine plantations on which the project was to be based are
a valuable resource and there has been some success in developing and
preparing a smaller mechanical wood processing project which will utilize a
portion of the forest. Comments received from the Borrower have been taken
into account in finalizing the report and are reproduced as an Attachment.
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.






(ii)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND SERVICES PROJECT
Credit No. S-017-MAI
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
(US$ million)
As of June 30, 1983
Original  Disbursed  Cancelled  Refinanced  Outstanding
Credit No. S-017-MAI      2.00         1.79       0.21        1.52          0.27
Cumulative Loan Disbursement
FY74    FY75    FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81
(i)  Planned           Not specified.
(ii)  Actual            0.18    1.27    1.40    1.50    1.69    1.77    1.77    1.79
OTHER DATA
Original      Actual or
Loan Date      Reestimated
Board Approval                           -               05/13/74
Loan Agreement                           -               06/13/74
Effectiveness                            -               08/28/74
Closing                               06/30/78           06/30/81
Physical Completion                   06/78              06/81
Borrower                              Republic of Malawi
Executing Agency                      Viphya Pulp and Paper Corporation
MISSION DATA
Date of
Month/Year   No./Weeks   No./Persons   Manweeks   Report
Appraisal               11/73          1-1/2         3           4-1/2      12/08/73
Supervision             08/74          1              2          2          08/17/74
Supervision             10/75          1             2           2          11/08/75
Supervision             08/76          1              1          1          09/03/76
Supervision             03/78          1/2           2           1          03/28/78
Supervision             09/78          1             3           3          10/02/78
Completion              11/82          1/2            2          1          06/20/83






(iii)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT S-017-MAI)
HIGHLIGHTS
The Bank first became involved in the Viphya Pulp Mill Project in
Malawi in 1971, when it acted as executing agency in a UNDP-financed study
of markets for products which could be manufactured from the extensive pine
plantations of the Viphya plateau. Subsequent prefeasibility studies and
feasibility studies were also financed by UNDP and executed by the Bank in
1972 and 1973.
The studies indicated that the most feasible industrial
development would be a mill to produce wood pulp for export. In view of
the specialized technological and marketing aspects of such a project, it
was clear that a qualified foreign partner already active in the pulp and
paper industry would be essential. The Bank assisted the Government to
identify prospective partners and joined preliminary discussions about the
Project.
Although the feasibility studies had been completed, further
preparatory work was needed to enhance the Project's attractiveness to
potential foreign investors. First, there remained major uncertainties
about the mode and cost of transport from the mill site on Lake Malawi
through Mozambique to likely pulp markets in Europe. Second, concerted
tree planting was required to compensate for interruptions in the forestry
program. Third, it was concluded that some preliminary engineering would
help to firm up the project costs.
To address these issues, a project preparation program was
organized with a total estimated cost of US$6.4 million. Financing was
arranged from the Government, UNDP, the United Kingdom and IDA. The IDA
funds were primarily allocated to consultants fees for the transportation
studies. These studies were completed in 1975.
While the studies were being undertaken and subsequently until
1978, the Malawi authorities continued to attempt to conclude a joint
venture arrangement with several foreign partners. However, during this
time, a variety of factors including escalating project costs, declining
world pulp markets, and the troubled situation in Mozambique, militated
against the viability of the Project. In 1978, consultants were appointed
to update all of the project and transportation cost estimates but it had
become clear that the project was not viable.  Subsequent efforts have been
successfully directed towards identifying and preparing alternative
mechanical wood industries, aimed at meeting the needs of the domestic
market and using a portion of the Viphya wood resources.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT S-017-MAI)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Malawi's economy is predominantly agricultural, with few
resources on which to build a significant industrial sector. Overall,
industry accounts for only 10% of GDP, comprising mostly small to medium
enterprises in agricultural related activities. Opportunities for
industrial development based on import substitution were exploited before
and after Malawi's independence in 1964 so that by the late 1960s, the only
significant opportunities to broaden the country's economic sector by
industrializing were in the export-oriented agricultural processing
industries.
1.02      In Malawi, as in other African countries, the UK had experimented
extensively with silviculture and had established several thousand hectares
(ha) of plantations of exotic pines on the Viphya plateau in the northern
sparsely settled part of the country. Under the prevailing soil and
climatic conditions the growth of those pines was exceptionally good. By
the mid-1960s, the idea of developing and expanding forest resources to
provide the basis for an export-oriented forest-based industry was
beginning to take shape. Further encouragement was provided by the widely
held view that forest resources were being depleted worldwide, and that the
paper needs of the world's economy would increasingly need to come from
developing countries and that pulp and paper prices would rise to satisfy
this growing demand.
1.03      Thus, with independence in 1964, the plantation program financed
by the UK's ODA was accelerated. A number of forest industry preparation
studies were carried out in the early 1970s culminating in a major
prefeasibility study financed by the UNDP and executed by the World Bank
with FAO assistance, which was completed in June 1973. This study
recommended that the Viphya forests be used to produce bleached kraft pulp
for the export market. The Government agreed with this conclusion and
proposed to proceed with a project for a mill with a capacity of 150,000
tpy of pulp. This project, which at that time was estimated to cost about
US$200 million, would be by far the biggest industrial undertaking in
Malawi. Support was sought from the Bank group, UNDP/FAO and ODA for the
further preparation of the project. It was agreed that foreign expertise
would be required, both for technical assistance in the implementation and
operation of the mill, and for marketing the pulp internationally. A joint
venture arrangement was proposed, and the Bank assisted the Government to
meet and initiate discussions with suitably qualified international pulp
and paper companies. It was thought that the demonstrable interest of such
a company in the Project would be supporting evidence of its commercial
viability.  It became apparent that one of the biggest concerns was the
transport of pulp from the mill site on Lake Malawi to an Indian Ocean
port for shipment to likely markets in Europe.  There was insufficient
information available concerning the cost and the technical problems to be
overcome. Thus, the Transport and Engineering Services Project was
prepared and appraised by the Bank in November 1973.
1.04      This completion report for the Transport and Engineering Services
Project was prepared by Bank staff and includes information obtained from



-2-
discussions with officials of VIPCOR and the Forestry Department during a
mission to Malawi (the preappraisal of a subsequent Wood Industries
Project) in November 1982. Some commentaries prepared by the Government in
advance of these discussions are available in the Project File.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Preparation and Appraisal
2.01      The project was prepared by the Malawi Government authorities'/,
ODA and IDA during 1973, after studying the Consultants' recommendation for
an export pulp mill. The major objective was to carry out additional
pre-investment investigations and provide technical assistance necessary
for a final assessment of the pulp mill project. Following the request
from the Government, a Bank appraisal mission visited Malawi in November
1973.
2.02      The appraisal mission discussed the preparation activities
necessary for the pulp mill project with Government authorities and
representatives of UNDP, FAO and ODA. They all generally agreed on a
package of project preparation activities which would cost about US$6.4
million. ODA agreed to provide US$2.4 million for plantation activities.
The UNDP/FAO undertook US$1.2 million of work to do a detailed feasibility
study for the pulp mill and to provide initial technical assistance to
VIPCOR. IDA agreed to consider a US$2.0 million credit for transport
planning and additional technical assistance to VIPCOR, and the Government
agreed to provide US$856,000 for local expenditures. The IDA mission
issued its report on December 26, 1973. On May 13, 1974 an IDA Credit to
the Malawi Government of US$2.0 million was approved for a period of ten
years including five years' grace with a standard service charge.
B. Project Description and Objectives
2.03      The Project, a part of a preparation program to promote and build
the pulp mill project, included (i) consultancy services for transport
planning, engineering and design; (ii) administrative, commercial,
engineering and legal services required to assist VIPCOR to promote the
scheme and negotiate with prospective partners; and (iii) a modest
allocation to purchase some furniture and office equipment for VIPCOR. The
consultancy services included two major studies: a Forest to Mill
Transport Study and a Mill to Market Transport Study.
2.04      The preparation program for the pulp mill project also included
pre-investment investigations on the following technical matters:
(a) fuel and power requirements, and sources of supply;
(b) transport requirements from the forest area to the mill and from
the mill to the market including the design of facilities
recommended;
1/ The Government created the Viphya Pulp and Paper Corporation (VIPCOR)
to act as its executing agency and to enter into discussions with
potential foreign private investors whose help was being sought to
finance and implement the project.



- 3 -
(c) hydrological and soil investigations to ascertain the suitability
of the proposed mill and harbor sites on the shore of Lake
Malawi;
(d) environmental control;
(e) wood extraction methods;
(f) detailed forest inventory; and
(g) training requirements for local staff.
The project preparation program also included the necessary financing,
management and marketing arrangements and the identification of capable and
interested external parties with whom to make these arrangements. The tree
planting program on the Viphya plateau, which had been suspended in 1970
when ODA began to doubt that an industrial development was viable, was to
be resumed, also as part of the project preparation program.
2.05      When the Credit was made, market prospects for pulp, especially
for the long fiber pulp that could be produced in Malawi, were judged
excellent, and projections of future prices were favorable. Wood
production costs at Viphya were (and still are) among the lowest in the
world, but this inherent advantage of the proposed pulp project was offset
by the high costs of transport over long distances to get the product to
international markets.  Thus, the feasibility studies which had already
been undertaken showed that while the project was feasible, financial and
economic rates of return would be marginal. The transport routes lay
through neighboring Mozambique, which meant that Malawi would not have
complete control of the transportation.
2.06      The objective of the Engineering Project financed by IDA was
therefore to complement other assistance efforts to help Malawi (a) to
secure suitable partners and negotiate contracts with them; (b) to
determine the financial and economic advantages that would accrue to Malawi
under the arrangements proposed by the partners; and (c) to execute those
studies that would be of use regardless of the type of industrial plant to
be constructed (e.g. identification and engineering of the road network
required for the transport of logs from the forests to the mill site, and
engineering of the transportation system from the mill to the markets).
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Achieving Project Objectives
3.01      The transportation, planning and design studies, which
constituted the major part of the project were virtually completed by
October 1975, at which time consultants had submitted a Draft Final Report
entitled "Pulp Mill Transport Systems Planning." Other consultants had
completed, somewhat earlier, a Draft Final Report on "Road System Planning
and Design Study" along with draft tender documents for the recommended
roads. A supervision mission in October 1975 discussed these reports and
tender documents and, subject to relatively minor changes, the mission and



-4-
Government were in agreement with the findings and conclusions of the
consultants. Very little of substance happened over the next three years
as VIPCOR sought unsuccessfully to find a foreign partner. Costs were
escalating rapidly and with the lack of foreign interest, there was
increasing evidence that the pulp mill project was not viable. Cost
estimates for the transport systems were updated in July and August 1978.
Cost estimates for the pulp mill itself were updated in 1977 which also
confirmed that the capital costs of the project were too high to justify
proceeding with the construction. Final design of the limited port
facilities required was not carried out because VIPCOR had not made a
decision on the basic method of cargo transfer at lake ports, since by that
time it had become apparent that the pulp mill project was not going to
proceed. Most of the engineering study results, particularly those
relating to forest roads, however, are useful for develoz ent of either a
sawmill industry or a pulp mill in the future.
3.02      During the course of the Project, VIPCOR receiTed all the
consultancy and administrative and commercial services and training, and
all of the office equipment, which were included in the project scope.
Both the services and equipment were necessary for VIPCOR to execute its
tasks. VIPCOR staff obtained useful experience in the contacts with
consultants and potential partners. While no technical partner was found
who was seriously interested in the pulp mill project, almost all of the
work, including the transportation studies, has relevance in the
scaled-down project proposals which are now being actively pursued.
3.03      The main objective of the Engineering Project, the commercial
utilization of the Viphya forest resources, has not yet been realized.
Soon after the approval of the Credit, a number of difficulties arose which
could not have been foreseen. In the first place, a rapid decline in pulp
prices occurred in 1975-1976 in common with the worldwide slump in
commodity prices that occurred after the overly rapid build up of prices in
1973-1974. At the same time, inflation rates remained high, increasing the
projected capital and operating costs of the pulp project. Exacerbating
these major changes in the external economic situation, which can be seen
clearly in hindsight but were not at the time of appraisal, are some
internal problems which affected the management of VIPCOR, and external
transport problems affecting Malawi's export/import traffic following
independence in Mozambique (in June 1975). Various reviews of the scope of
the pulp mill project were instituted in the 1976-1980 period, including a
project updating study which was included in the Project scope in 1977. In
1981, a decision was taken to postpone further consideration of building a
large pulp mill. This deferral is likely to continue unless pulp prices
improve substantially in real terms and a reliable transport system is
determined, neither of which is likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
Meanwhile, the domestic market for mechanical wood products has grown to
the extent that a more modest project aimed at meeting local needs can be
considered.
B. Project Management
3.04      The Project was executed by VIPCOR, whose responsibilities
included negotiation with consultants, reviewing of reports, and
coordination of the activities relating to the Project with appropriate



-5-
local organizations and the Government. In the early years VIPCOR received
assistance from technical and financial specialists who helped to
strengthen its management. They were funded by UNDP/FAO and by CIDA. No
funds from the Credit were used for individual specialists assigned to
VIPCOR, although financial advisory services by a US Bank to help promote
the pulp mill were funded by the IDA Credit.
3.05      Throughout its existence, VIPCOR has been headed by Mr. L.S.
Mihowa as Coordinating Officer and General Manager. He is responsible to a
five-man Board of Directors, the Chairman of which is Mr. J.W. Tembo who is
also Governor of the Reserve Bank of Malawi. The original VIPCOR staff was
small but now totals 40, including chemical, civil, electrical and
mechanical engineers who have been trained abroad in anticipation of the
original large scale pulp and paper project. The training program was
funded by UNDP and most staff are currently seconded to Government
parastatal organizations in Malawi, but are available to VIPCOR when their
services are required.
C. Training
3.06      Training was included in the comprehensive program of the pulp
mill project, but was not originally in the Project description. However,
a training component was added to the project scope in 1980, and
subsequently, a part of the Credit was directly used for training
purposes. In addition, the VIPCOR staff obtained valuable training by
executing the Project and through contact with the several consultants.
D. Use of Consultants
3.07      The Project retained consultancy services for transport and
project updating studies from three consulting firms, and also for the
administrative and commercial sectors through a US bank which was engaged
as financial advisor of the project. The several consultants were
appointed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and followed
their respective Terms of References. Both VIPCOR and IDA were satisfied
with their performance.
E. Implementation Schedule
3.08      The major part of project implementation (the consultants'
studies) was completed within the estimated schedule, i.e., by 1978, but
because the pulp mill project did not turn out to be viable, the schedule
was extended to allow time to develop the appropriate strategy regarding an
alternative project.
F. Supervision and Disbursement
3.09      Five supervision missions were carried out through the duration
of the Project. These were normally associated with other missions, or
with meetings which had been called to discuss specific project
developments. UNDP/FAO and, later CIDA, funded and supported professional
staff that were attached to VIPCOR, and frequent informal contact was
maintained with these development agencies. Meetings were also held with
VIPCOR staff in Washington and elsewhere, and informal contacts with the
consultants were maintained. Several times throughout the Project, Bank



- 6 -
staff reassessed the pulp mill project's economic viability and when there
was sufficient final documentation in 1978 from the several consultants'
studies available, the Bank recommended to the Government that the pulp
project be deferred. The Government was reluctant to take any formal
action in this regard, but in view of the obvious difficulties in
attracting a technical partner and mobilizing the necessary capital funds,
it was clear that implementation of the project in the short-to-medium term
was not likely. Overall, the Project was adequately supervised in the
sense that no different conclusion would have been reached with more
frequent supervision missions to Malawi. However, as discussed in paras
5.05 and 5.06, a different approach and more supervision could have
resulted in reaching the final recommendation to defer the project sooner
and with less money being spent. Since 1978, the Bank has worked with the
Government on a possible alternative, but smaller project in Viphya. One
such project, based on mechanical wood industries, is now being appraised.
3.10      The allocation and overall disbursement of the IDA credit are
given below:
IDA Credit, 1974        Actual
(US$ '000)
Consultancy                           1,310                   1,693
Administrative and Commercial
Services and Training                 415                      51
Office Equipment                         55                      48
Unallocated                             220                     -
Total                               2,000                   1,792
Undisbursed                                                     208
The Credit was closed on April 27, 1981 and the remaining undisbursed
funds, US$208,000, were cancelled.
IV. BANK ROLE
4.01      Since Malawi's independence in 1964, development agencies,
including the Bank, have played a continuous role in the development of the
Viphya wood resources. Immediately after independence, FAO played a
leading role among the external agencies and sent missions to review the
possibility of building an industry to be based on the Viphya plantations.
The Bank took over the leading role in 1970 when it executed a
UNDP-financed study of pulp markets that could be supplied from Malawi.
The study was encouraging enough to prompt the Government, UNDP and the
Bank to organize a follow-up prefeasibility study of a pulp mill in 1972.
FAO was asked to assist as the Bank did not have its own technical staff at
that time. The outcome of the prefeasibility study was the organization,
largely under the guidance of Bank staff, of the US$6.4 million program of
activities to prepare the pulp mill project.
4.02      It was planned that VIPCOR would manage the program after it was
established at the end of 1973, and that the development agencies would
play a more passive role. Internally VIPCOR's effectiveness in management
and decision making developed more slowly than anticipated but this did not



delay overall project execution. Externally, a number of unanticipated
changes jeopardized the viability of the pulp mill project. First was the
uncertainty about the security of export transportation caused by the
worsening political climate within Mozambique after its independence. The
second problem, which developed more slowly, was the decline in world pulp
prices; and the third was a continued escalation of capital and operating
costs.  Consequently, the pulp project became less economically viable than
originally projected.
4.03      The Bank's role in this period was that of firstly monitoring the
transportation studies which were considered useful for preparation of
either a sawmill industry or a pulp mill project, and secondly examining
the viability of the pulp mill from time to time. As it become more
obvious that the viability was in serious doubt, the Bank began to look at
alternative uses for the Viphya wood resources. The period of
re-examination lasted from 1978 to 1981, when the pulp mill was postponed
indefinitely, and the decision taken to use the resource for sawn timber,
panels, and possibly paper for local consumption. The Bank group,
including IFC, is now playing a key role in the examination of the these
alternatives. Given the generally recognized shortage of project
management staff in Malawi, the Bank and other development agencies have
played, and are playing, a useful role in getting a project organized and
implemented to utilize the Viphya wood resource. Thus, although
international pulp and paper companies continued to express some interest
in the Project, none was prepared to commit equity funds nor to enter into
guaranteed marketing agreements. The indication of commercial viability
which was being sought (para 1.03), was not forthcoming.
4.04      One can question whether setting the present, more realistic
goals could have been done more effectively, and particularly whether Bank
staff were sufficiently critical in the preparation and appraisal period.
No fault can be taken with the fundamental position that an engineering
exercise was necessary to determine the best way to provide comprehensive
information concerning infrastructure and transport requirements and that
management assistance was needed for VIPCOR. However, given the known
magnitude of these problems, one can ask whether more caution should have
been taken in proceeding with a project with a marginal economic return.
One can also question why there was not a continuing process of review, so
that the conclusion not to proceed with the pulp mill project could have
been reached earlier than 1981, and efforts and funds could have been
redirected toward pursuing alternatives before the funds were fully spent.
At least in part, this can be attributed to the Government's early strong
resolve to proceed with the project, and its reluctance to divert from this
objective, even in the face of mounting negative evidence concerning the
project's worth. These questions should, of course, be directed to both
the Malawian authorities as well as the development institutions involved.
V. CONCLUSIONS
A. Lessons Learned
5.01      Engineering projects should be appraised critically giving
attention to controlling costs and dividing project implementation in



-8-
stages, as appropriate, so that the project can be stopped (or altered)
after review in the event of adverse developments. This is difficult to do
in cases like that of the proposed Malawi pulp mill, where firm resolve on
the part of the Government leadership tends to push things along despite
adverse developments, and where a large number of development agencies are
involved cooperatively in the integrated package of project preparation
activities. Nevertheless, the expenditures could have been phased so that
that a hold could be put on them, if a subsequent phase appeared uncertain
or unnecessary. In particular, the Bank's early insistence that the
viability of the project be confirmed by firm expressions of interest from
foreign technical and marketing partners who would be prepared to invest in
the project, should have served as a basis for reducing expenditures.
5.02      In the case of the transportation engineering work funded by the
Credit, a conceptual engineering phase could have been clearly separated
from detailed engineering work, and a careful review of the status of the
pulp project arranged between these two steps. As it was, the conceptual
and detailed engineering work were both authorized when the consultancy
contracts were let, and only a minimum of technical review took place.
5.03      On the other hand, even though most of the project preparation
funds were spent, and some perhaps without benefit to Malawi, a second
lesson is that unusually large, complex and risky projects should be
evaluated carefully, in an engineering or preparation phase, before the
commitment to the construction phase is made. Had not the engineering
approach been adopted, a situation could have developed where Malawi was
not only politically, but also financially, committed to the construction
of an export pulp mill and large sums of money have been spent before the
full realization was reached that the project was not viable, largely due
to unforeseen events. Thus, the engineering/preparation approach was the
right one.
5.04      A third lesson is that, although the development of the forests
and the pulp mill are inextricably linked, there is a vast difference in
the timing of the two developments due to the long lead time to get the
plantations established. It takes from 15-30 years to get plantations
established before a pulp mill or other industrial plant based on them can
be developed. As a result, the outcome of the Engineering Project, namely
not to proceed with a pulp mill, does not demonstrate that the decisions in
the 1950s to plant trees, and in 1964 and 1973 to expand the plantations
were then incorrect. It does, however, demonstrate the necessity to remain
flexible in planning uses of plantations, and not to judge, a priori, that
they will be used for only one purpose, and one purpose only.
5.05      Tough decisions face countries like Malawi, Zambia, Madagascar,
and Congo - to name a few - where for various technical and historical
reasons, demonstrated success has been achieved in establishing thriving
plantations on land likely to have few other uses, but where the internal
market for the products of the plantations is limited and infrastructure
and transport limitations are large. In an expanding global economy,
export pulp could be a viable option. However, in today's economy, doing
nothing for the moment except to update studies, may actually be the best
option. An in-between choice, which is that now being proposed in Malawi,
is to put part of the resource into mechanical wood products for the local



- 9 -
market. This in-between option requires far less capital expenditure, it
is more labor intensive, is more flexible in the possible range of
products, and most of them are quite suited to local markets, and--with
careful planning--it need not exclude the possibility of one day also
producing pulp for export and/or local markets. This is a fourth lesson
that has been learned from the project.
5.06      Lastly, a fifth lesson learned is that engineering projects
should be closely supervised. Indeed, they may well be the best
opportunity for Bank staff to work closely in project development to direct
project formulation to best possible solutions. With the benefit of
hindsight, one can say that more supervision could have taken place in the
difficult years from 1975-1978, in order to reduce the expenditure of
project preparation funds and efforts. On the other hand, the Government
has been unusually sensitive to external intervention in the direction of
the Viphya pulp project, and had reacted strongly to any assessment which
could be seen as casting doubt on the viability of the pulp project.
Because of these circumstances, more vigorous supervision efforts were
considered counter-productive.
B. Future Action
5.07      When the Bank and the Government finally agreed in 1981 that the
pulp project was not likely to proceed in the foreseeable future, it became
possible to consider more modest, domestically-oriented mechanical wood
industries projects to utilize the Viphya resources.
5.08      At present, the Government and the Bank are working together to
develop a project for restructuring the wood industries sector in Malawi.
The efforts include:
(i)   A Viphya based sawmill/panel mill complex, sponsored by
VIPCOR, and being jointly developed with KfW and the Bank.
The output would be largely for the domestic market;
(ii)   Restructuring of three existing sawmills in south Malawi to
upgrade their performance and better utilize available wood
resources;
(iii)   A joint effort with IFC to promote a small, viable paper
project in south Malawi, largely for the domestic market;
and,
(iv)   Several studies on alternative uses of Viphya resources and
overall development of forest and forest-based industries
in Malawi.



I



- 10 -                       ATTACHMENT
VIPHYA PULP AND PAPER CORPORATION lWlMED
Tele.: VICOGR. U13w.                                      Ia~peqiN..2267
Tdq=-m: Butms 633 E991633 130                             h                      IpO_/6
Tds  :4157 VIPCOR BLANTYRfE
P.O. BOX 1252
CQ m_ o mid I. ad t..db
c-ONWW omewBATR
MALAWI
COMMENTS RECEIVED FRnM THE BORROWER
25th August, 1983
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur,
Director,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1818 H. Street N.W,
Washington DC 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Kapur,
RE: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ON MALAWI -
TRANSPORT ENGINEERING AND SERVICES PROJECT
(VIPHYA EXPORT PULP ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT S-017-MAI)
I acknowledge with thanks receipt of your letter dated
26th July, 1983 on the above subject.
I have read the Project Completion Report with great interest
and I agree with the contents subject to the following minor
points:-
Para 3.05
(i)   Mr. J.W. Tembo should read J.Z.U. Tembo
(ii)  After mechanical engineers add "and five professional
accountants.
The sentence should now read as follows:-
The original VIPCOR staff was small but now totals
Comments    )                 40, including chemical, civil, electrical, mechanical
incorported )                 engineers and five professional accountants.
in PCR.     )
(iii) After UNDP add Malawi Government.
The sentence should now read as follows:-
The training programme was funded by UNDP and the
Malawi Government. 
The point is that while the engineer training programme
was funded by UNDP, the accountants training programme
was funded by the Malawi Government.
2 ---2



- 11 -                    ATTACHMENT
:2:
Apart from these very minor amendments, we have no objections
to the publication of the report and we look forward to receiving
a copy of the final report in due course.
Yours sincerely,
CO-ORDINATING OFFICER



