Document of
The World Bank                     FU copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3043-PNG
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 29, 1981
Agricultural Division II
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Kina
US$1   = K 0.67
Kl     =  US$1.50
GOVERNMENT-S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DPI    =  Department of Primary Industry
NPMA   =  National Plantation Management Agency
PAS    =  Provincial Administrative Secretary
PMTP   =  Plantation Management Training Program
PNGDB  =  Papua New Guinea Development Bank
PRDO   =  Provincial Rural Development Officer
SC     =  Project Steering Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  AGRICULTURAL BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
General .1...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    I
Agricultural Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Development Issues and Government Strategy . . . . . . . .    2
Bank Group Participation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
II.  SOCIOLOGICAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK . . . . . . . . . .    5
Traditional Setting .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Structure of Government ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    6
The Papua New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB) .  . . . . .    7
Department of Primary Industry (DPI)  . . . . . . . . . .   11
Plantation Management .12
Marketing Agencies  .................                             13
III. THE PROJECT.. ...............  15
Origin   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Brief Description ...... . .........    15
Detailed Features ...... . .........    16
Estimated Cost. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Disbursement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Accounts and Audit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions. . . . . . . . .   22
V. INPUTSANDYIELDS .................                                     24
Inputs:  Agriculture  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Piggeries and Poultry  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Yields   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal team composed of
J. Andreu, F. Hutchison and A. Hasan (Bank) which visited Papua New Guinea
in April/May 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.  MARKETING, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY . .  26
Marketing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
Prices  .........................   27
Project Impact on Participating Farmers . . . . . . . . .  28
Project Impact on PNGDB ......  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  .  .   28
Project Impact on Government and Cost Recovery. . . . . .  29
VII.  BENEFITS, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Beneficiaries and Benefits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Economic Analyses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Sensitivity Analyses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Risks   .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  31
Environmental Impact  .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..   .   32
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS. . . . . . . . . . .  32
List of Tables and Charts in Main Text
Table 1 : Project Cost Estimates   . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
2 : Financing Plan .........  ...  ....   .   19
3 : Estimated Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . .  21
4 : Price Forecasts  ........  ..  ...  ..   .   27
5 : Project Impact on PNGDB  . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
6 : Project Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Annexes in Main Text
Annex 1 : PNGDB Organization Chart
2 : PNGDB's Income and Expenditure, 1974-1979
3 : PNGDB's Balance Sheets, 1974-1979
4 : PNGDB's Cashflow Projection (without the Project), 1980-1984
5 : Project Investments, 1980-1983
6 : Project Financial Impact on PNGDB, 1980-1990
7 : Economic Costs and Benefits
8 : Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
Maps
IBRD 15008-Agricultural Area
IBRD 15009-Location of Main Cash Crop Areas and of PNGDB's Field Offices



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - APPRAISAL
I. AGRICULTURAL BACKGROUND
General
1.01     The basic factors which bear on PNG-s agricultural development are
a widely scattered population, difficult geography, low quality of many
soils, land usage conflicts and poor support services.  These result in
narrow profit margins derived from relatively small volumes of output and
necessitate the concentration of the development effort in the most
favorable geographic areas to achieve economically viable activities.
1.02     PNG has a land area of about 500,000 sq km and a population of only
about three million, 85% of whom are largely subsistence farmers living in
traditional societies in sparsely populated rural areas. However, there are
areas, e.g. Central Highlands, Simbu, Gazelle Peninsula, with high popula-
tion densities and important migration difficulties to other agricultural
areas. Population is growing at 3% p.a.
1.03     The country's topography is characterized by central mountain chains
(both in the mainland and each of the main islands) and generally rugged
terrain covered by forests with the balance largely under swamps. These
important physical barriers give rise to many microclimates. Temperatures
vary largely according to altitude and rainfall ranges mostly between 1,000
and 5,000 mm. p.a. Soils are generally volcanic in the eastern islands,
basalts and andesites predominate in mountainous areas, and there are large
alluvial deposits in the plains which form part of large river basins. A
general characteristic of all soils is heavy leaching, which together with
the difficult topography, severely limits the country's agricultural
potential (Map IBRD 15008).
1.04     The large land area relative to population and difficult physical
access have resulted in widely dispersed and isolated rural communities which
are difficult to link with a road network. The resulting heavy dependence
on air and inadequate coastal shipping transport, which can only handle
relatively small volumes of cargo at very high unit costs, has important
negative implications for the general welfare of the population, and for
economic development. To improve this, Government is emphasizing
construction of highways linking the main population areas, and of farm to
market roads.
The Agricultural Sector
1.05     In spite of its many constraints, the agricultural sector represents
the country-s main development possibility. Although the sector accounts for
only about one third of GDP and export earnings it employs almost nine out of
ten economically active people.



- 2 -
1.06     Production for subsistence and for the market is carried out in the
same farms by smallholders and cashcropping is also carried out by
plantations. Nationals have been acquiring the latter from expatriates with
Government support.
1.07     In 1979, the main cash crops (practically all for export) were (in
m tons): copra (105,000), coffee (47,000), cocoa (27,000), palm oil
(30,000) and rubber (4,500). The first three are cultivated over large areas
of smallholdings and plantations and the last two in small consolidated
settlement areas. Their geographic distribution is given in Map IBRD 15009.
The main subsistence crops are sweet potatoes, bananas and taro.  Most
families keep pigs. Beef and poultry production on a modest scale is being
developed through commercial units. Crop yields are low under native
practices, but higher yields have been obtained under good management in the
Highlands (coffee) and in New Britain (oil palms). In the past, production
increases were brought about by expansion of the cultivated area. There is
strong evidence, however, that good agricultural land (reasonably accessible
with moderate to high fertility and suitable topography) is becoming scarce
mainly because of severe limitations imposed by customary control of land
(which impedes its use by the more enterprising villagers) and generalized
land tenure disputes originating in complex traditional practices.
1.08     The short-term prospects for the economy are also worrisome.
Imports of goods and services have increased substantially in the last five
years while the volume of most exports has largely stagnated. Large
Australian Government grants have helped close the resource gap in recent
years but the grants are being progressively reduced. This situation must be
redressed by increases in agricultural productivity and exports (with due
regard to maintenance of adequate levels of subsistence production). Such
programs should be based on gradual change of traditional organization and
practices in order to provide opportunities and incentives clearly perceived
by villagers.
Development Issues and Government Strategy
1.09     The basic question facing Papua New Guineans is how to develop
agriculture in the short term to close an important resource gap and in
the long term to provide employment and adequate incomes and promote the
welfare of the overwhelming majority of the population which lives in the
countryside and faces serious sociological and physical constraints.  The
specific issues faced by Government are:
(a)  how to use fiscal and monetary tools to strengthen the
private sector;
(b) how to adapt traditional village organization and customs
(including importantly land tenure systems) to the needs of
continued and balanced agricultural development;



- 3 --
(c)  how to ensure effective participation in development of many
dissimilar and often antagonistic clan groups;
(d)  how to effect a steady transfer of plantations
from expatriates to nationals with minimum losses of
productivity and production; and
(e)  how to train, employ, motivate and organize adequate
numbers of young, poorly trained, inexperienced
people to provide the required support services.
1.10      In the last decade, Government's strategy has emphasized develop-
ment of the poorer provinces and has paid specific attention to improved
nutrition and the social welfare of rural people. Specifically Government
has:
(a)  maintained an open economy based on a strong private sector
supported by sound agricultural credit and export marketing
structures, and export crop stabilization funds;
(b)  enabled clans and other traditional groups to operate agricul-
tural lands as legally recognized groups and to guarantee
individual rights in clan lands to bring about long-term farm
improvements;
(c)  decentralized many development responsibilities down to the
provincial level;
(d)  helped transfer control of expatriate owned plantations to
nationals by providing them with funding and with management
training and support;
(e)  expanded specialized agricultural instruction (agricultural
colleges and other vocational schools) and in-service training;
and giving more attractive remuneration to some categories of
staff.
1.11      The immediate limitations faced by this strategy are:  continued
uncertainties regarding land tenure; lack of adequate incentives for
increasing production of cash crops in many areas of the country; and other
factors such as shortage of medium and long-term funds; weakening extension
and other support services due to the still continuing decentralization
*           process and to the difficulties of replacing experienced expatriate staff;
and difficulties in coordinating plantation management and the provincial
extension services with credit delivery. The above have resulted in
stagnant or declining production of important cash crops and high rates of
rural migration.



- 4 -
1.12      The Government has recently initiated steps towards alleviation of
some of the above constraints. On the one hand it has undertaken, with
assistance from the Bank, a review of the agricultural support services and
is planning to strengthen these services (para. 1.13). Complementing this
initiative, it has increased the financial incentives to farmers through
partial subsidization of development cost of new projects and interest rates,
with a view to inducing urgently needed new development and rehabilitation in
cash cropping, livestock and fishery subsectors./l The subsidy has two com-
ponents: (a) subsidy of up to K 3,000 for new projects, mainly for management
agency fees./2 (In view of the weak extension services PNGDB generally
requires its borrowers to hire services of management companies); (b) lowering
of the interest rate (to the extent that it exceeds 5% p.a., para. 2.19) for
projects located in the disadvantaged districts ranked according to per capita
cash income and a number of other socio-economic indicators. Of the ninety
districts in the country, the lowest 30% have been selected by the Government
as being eligible for the interest subsidy at the present time. Based on the
existing and estimated mix of PNGDB's agricultural lending and its expected
growth, the size of the total subsidy is not large and unlikely to exceed
K 250,000 per year. A positive feature of this subsidy package is the
temporary nature of the management fee subsidy. The fees charged by manage-
ment companies (mostly expatriate personnel) are a costly but temporary
charges on commercial production. The temporary nature arises from the fact
that with the strengthening of extension services the need for management
company services would decline.
Bank Group Participation
1.13     The Bank Group has financed projects related to livestock and oil
palms, and more recently a provincial integrated rural development project.
Further investment in provincial programs is expected. The proposed project
addresses some of the problems identified in para. 1.11. At Government's
request the Bank undertook a review to help Government strengthen agricultural
support services at the national and provincial levels. The Bank's report has
been recently submitted to the Government and discussions are underway about
the possibility of Bank support for an agricultural support services project.
/1 Interest subsidy applies to both rehabilitation and new development.
However, rehabilitation projects are ineligible for development cost
subsidy since these do not require special management input and also as
ground preparation and initial planting is already done.
/2 The development cost subsidy of K 3,000 comprises: (a) subsidy of
K 2,400/project, for management agency fees and (b) K 600 for costs of
land survey, soil tests and tools (para. 3.09).



- 5 -
II. SOCIOLOGICAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
Traditional Setting
2.01      There are approximately 700 separate cultural and linguistic groups
in Papua New Guinea, although two lingua franca (Melanesian Pidgin and Hiri
Motu) are understood in wide areas throughout the country. English is spoken
in urban centers and by some rural elites. Most rural people still live in
traditional societies, which went undisturbed until recently. As an example,
the first outside contact with the heavily populated highland areas did not
take place until the 1930s. These contacts, however, are rapidly expanding
and affecting traditional society.
2.02      The basic traditional organization unit is the clan, which is
composed of several extended families, usually living in single villages or
groups of villages isolated from the rest of the country by physical barriers.
This isolation has traditionally impeded trade and other forms of communi-
cation, and has fostered differentiation, hostility and open warfare among
clans.
2.03      About 95% of the land area is customary land with right patterns
which vary considerably within and between ethnic groups. Customary rights
to land are widely fragmented and overlapping and depend on whether the
possessor of the land is a man or a woman; a chief, a clan leader or a
commoner. Inheritance may be patrilinear or matrilinear and involves a number
of social obligations. Rights are specific to cultivation, use of timber
resources, hunting, fishing or other purposes. In the past, land rights have
been maintained by force and have changed hands often as a result.
2.04      The main practical consequences of the above are as follows:
(a) the adjudication and registration of land rights is extremely difficult
and rights may be contested for a long time; (b)  there is no tradition in
the system of secure, individual, rights to land; and (c) there are import-
ant land allocation and usage imbalances among clans. These factors are
important limitations to rural development and a major effort is required to
modify and adapt existing practices to development needs without unduly
disrupting the fabric of society.
2.05     The Government aims at incorporating traditional groups and indi-
viduals into the market economy by enabling them to borrow from banks on the
basis of well established communal boundaries and of clan-recognized indi-
vidual family plots, both without the need for documentation. Traditional
groups are also being encouraged to organize legally and to register their
lands. They are also included in land clearing, cultivation, harvesting,
marketing, and processing, the latter two often under more formal cooperative
arrangements. Initial emphasis has been placed on more stable traditional
areas, on plantations purchased from expatriates, and on new settlement



areas, all of which offer the fundamental advantage of generally recognized
rights to specific land parcels. But the fact remains that land tenure is a
difficult policy matter and that there is no organized and accepted system to
settle land disputes. As a result only limited areas are available for
organized agricultural development.
2.06     Another important and related aspect of traditional society which
has a bearing on development is in the area of incentives. Subsistence
production is largely undertaken together with some cash cropping and the
latter relatively recent development attests to the existence of basic
economic motivation among villagers. However, incentives for borrowing and
investing are not always effective because of many economic and non-economic
factors. These are the desire to work only on a part-time basis, long visits
to relatives in other villages or towns, preferences for different self- and
wage employment mixes and dependence on more successful family members.
These factors bear on the willingness and ability to work in a disciplined
fashion in the expectation of future benefits which in the case of permanent
tree crops (by and large the most important cash crops) take years to obtain.
There is thus uncertainty regarding farmers' commitment to on-farm develop-
ment, and future efficiency levels, and caution and flexibility in the design
of rural projects are, therefore, essential.
2.07     Finally, traditional customs, such as rearing of large numbers of
pigs which compete with humans for food, the use of pigs for ceremonial pur-
poses (as opposed to sustained consumption throughout the year), the reduc-
tion in subsistence plantings originating in the exodus of young males to
urban centers because of lack of opportunities in village life, and newly
acquired and less desirable consumption habits, all have negative effects on
rural peoples nutrition and health; these in turn affect productivity and
production. These issues are being addressed by government through balanced
subsistence/cash crop development, provision of basic social services to
villages, and through efforts to diminish the prestige value of some
traditional activities and ceremonies, but such changes will occur only
slowly.
Structure of Government
2.08     Papua New Guinea has a parliamentary system of Government, the most
salient characteristic of which is its high degree of decentralization, in
recognition of the wide diversity of peoples in the country.
2.09     The Organic Law on Provincial Government was passed in early 1977.
Since then a number of provincial constitutions have been approved and
provincial assemblies and executive councils have been established based on
direct popular elections.
2.10     Primarily provincial functions where provincial law overrides
national law are the coordination of local governments and courts, primary



education, housing and regulation of trade (other than banks), cultural
activities and public entertainment. Concurrent (or shared) functions which
allow provincial government latitude in matters exclusively affecting the
province include agriculture and land development.
2.11     To discharge the above responsibilities the provinces have organized
provincial secretariats and departments with their own by-laws and staff
transferred from the corresponding national units. Among these are primary
industries (i.e. agriculture fisheries and forestry) and education. Provin-
ces are allowed to introduce fees and taxes on retail sales, trading licen-
ses, land, head tax and public entertainment. The National Government also
refunds to the provinces the proceeds of certain taxes collected in the
provinces, and 1.25% of the export value of goods produced in the province
and exported as well as provides grants tied to projects or programs. Most
importantly, the National Government provides the provinces with uncondi-
tional guaranteed minimum grants to cover capital and operating costs. All
the above measures ensure an effective delegation of responsibilities to
provincial governments and the intention is to proceed in similar fashion
down to the local level.
2.12     With regard to agricultural development the main implications are
that agricultural supporting services, such as applied research, extension
and basic vocational education must be organized through the provincial
governments, but that in the transitional period high standards and coordi-
nation are still difficult to bring about. The main entities with national
responsibilities which need to be coordinated with the responsibilities of
provincial governments are the Papua New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB),
the Department of Primary Industries (DPI), the plantation management units,
and the crop marketing agencies, all of which are dealt with below.
The Papua New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB)
2.13      Background.  There is a substantial amount of village agricultural
development being financed by the villagers themselves through clan support
arrangements but at low efficiency levels. Institutional agricultural
financing in the country is largely provided by PNGDB, while private
commercial banks and the publicly owned Banking Corporation limit them-
selves to short-term financing of large (and mostly foreign-owned)
plantations and crop marketing enterprises.
2.14      Origin, Legal Status and General Policies.  PNGDB was established
in December, 1965 and began operations in July, 1967. It is set up as a
publicly owned corporate body and has been enabled to acquire, hold and
dispose of real and personal property, and sue and be sued. Initially,
PNGDB limited itself to financing specific export crops and livestock,
importantly by participating in projects supported by IDA financing. In the
last few years PNGDB has broadened its lending criteria to include small
non-secured loans but has continued to support ventures which are in line



- 8 -
with Government's development priorities, which are deemed technically and
economically viable and which have a large impact on employment of
nationals. Beneficiaries are expected to make meaningful contributions in
land, cash, kind or labor to their projects. PNGDB finances investments in
primary industries, processing, and services with loan terms in line with
prospective enterprise cashflows.
2.15       Organization and Management.  The Board consists of a chairman, his
deputy and eleven members, all appointed by Government's National Executive
Council with the exception of PNGDB's Managing Director and his deputy,
who are ex-officio members. Appointments are for three years and can be
extended.  Meetings are held quarterly and this is considered adequate.  The
Board has overall policy guidance and supervision responsibilities, and
approves plans and guidelines on commitment of resources.
2.16       PNGDB's organization chart is in Annex 1.  There are five head
office departments directly reporting to the Deputy Managing Director and
through him to the Managing Director and the Board. The Administration
Department is responsible for staffing and training; the Internal and Liaison
Services Department, for economic analyses, branch inspections, internal
audit, organization and methods and public relations. The Accounts
Department handles data collection and central accounting. The Operations
Department is responsible for loan approvals and records and receives
assistance from the Technical Department for project evaluation and technical
studies. The Technical Department also promotes new enterprises in associa-
tion with nationals. PNGDB has recently carried out an extensive expansion
of field offices to reach more smallholders. There are at present nine
branches, four sub-branches and eighteen representative offices (the latter
staffed by two men each) in the field. The location of these well
distributed offices is given in Map IBRD 15009.
2.17       Staffing and Training.  At December 31, 1979 staff numbered 381
and of these 38% were in head office. Expatriate numbers have declined over
the years and consist of 17 staff at present, although six additional ones
will be recruited shortly as the minimum necessary for efficient operation
of headquarters and two field branches. The most serious problem facing the
Bank is staff turnover, which amounted to about one fifth of the staff in
1979 (compared to less than 5% annually up to 1977/78) and is largely due to
staff leaving for more attractive employment, often with provincial
governments. Although turnover is declining, the situation is likely to
improve only slowly and require a substantial amount of recruiting and
training through 1985, essentially because of the inadequate overall supply
of qualified people for the jobs available throughout the public and private
sectors. Although the Bank's salary levels are above those of the public
sector in general and competitive with those of private banks, additional
remuneration in the form of fringe benefits is being contemplated to retain
a higher percentage of qualified staff to allow PNGDB to work efficiently.



- 9 -
2.18      Operating and Lending Procedures.  PNGDB's operational procedures
are similar to those of commercial banks and are set out in a comprehensive
set of operational manuals which include instructions for loans, branch
management, securities, hire purchase and management training. The Bank and
DPI have designed a very useful, siraplified procedures manual for lending to
smallholders. MIajor improvements, however, are required in coordinating
management/extension support with credit delivery. The ongoing Government/
Bank review of agricultural support services is expected to address this
particular problem.
2.19     Loans (with the exception of a number of mini loans each below
K 1,000 or US$ 1,500 in the last two years) are well analyzed both regarding
technical/financial aspects and creditwortlhiness. Clan lands loans, special
purpose leases and group guarantee arrangements have allowed the Bank to
increase its lending to nationals who can offer no collateral, and are
working well.  Interest spreads are substantial at six to ten percent and,
except for agricultural lending in disadvantaged areas, interest rates to
beneficiaries at eight to eleven and a half percent are positive in real
terms. These rates are above the projected (7.5%) long-term inflation
rates. As of January 1, 1981, the Government lowered the interest rates on
agricultural loans, in disadvantaged districts, to five percent (para. 1.12).
For such loans the Government would provide annual subsidy to PNGDB to enable
it to have a spread of at least six percent. The interest subsidy applies to
both loans outstanding as of January 1, 1981 and new loans made (subsequent
to this date), for new development and rehabilitation. Loan terms and
conditions reflect the needs of the specific investments. The overwhelming
majority of loans which are below K 10,000 (US$15,000) are short term, and
are made on personal knowledge of borrowers and/or on co-signatory members of
the borrowers' clans.  These are approved at branch level or below in less
than one week from receipt of a request.
2.20      Accounting and Auditing.  During 1979, a centralized computer system
was introduced and this will make possible, among other operations, updating
and systematizing information on arrears. During 1980, further improvements
are expected and these should be followed by a consultant's review in 1981
including a cost/benefit analysis of the system in operation at that time.
External auditing is carried out adequately by the Auditor General.
2.21      Operational Performance.  PNGDB's overall performance is good.
In its 12-1/2 years of operation up to end-1979, PNGDB had approved a total
of 27,400 loans amounting to K 106 million. During 1979 of K 16 million in
loan approvals almost 50% of the value and 60% of the number of loans had
been made for agricultural development, about 30% for services and the
balance for trade and industry. These proportions are generally in line with
Government's priorities. Practically all loans were made to nationals and
the geographic distribution by regions was well balanced based on potential
and on population numbers. The average size of agricultural loans has
increased from K 2,000 to K 3,000 in the last five years.



- 10 -
2.22      Although promotion among nationals has been stepped up, the volume
of new loans in real terms has grown only at 2.5% p.a.  in the last four
years and the number of agricultural loans actually declined from about 2,900
to 2,300 between 1978 and 1979. This is mainly due to intertribal warfare in
the highlands, a decision to reduce drastically the volume of mini loans
(which were not being satisfactorily repaid) and continued deterioration of
DPI extension services as agents for PNGDB (para. 2.33). Portfolio growth
has not kept pace with a staff increase of 35% (due largely to upgrading and
expansion of field units in preparation for increased future lending) in
1977-79.
2.23      Another negative factor has been loan arrears.  Collections repre-
sented only 75% of overdues and repayments falling due in 1979, and for
agriculture this was still lower at 68%. A large part of this is due to lack
of proper analysis of small agricultural loans by provincial extension staff,
and mini-loans which resulted in 66% arrears for this loan category, as well
as inadequate data processing and updating of collection information in the
branches prior to 1979/80.  These problems are being forcefully addressed.
More reliance is being placed on private management agents (instead of
provincial extension staff, who have become unreliable) for farm development
supervision, and on PNGDB's own staff for loan processing and collection.
Granting of mini-loans has been stopped and the recently installed computer
system is producing up-to-date information on arrears which will be followed
up with energetic collection drives in the field.
2.24      Other areas which need strengthening are staff training, loan
collection, volume of agricultural lending and support by management/extension
services. Action is already being taken or is planned in these areas and
major improvements should be forthcoming beginning in 1980/81.
2.25     Financial Condition.  PNGDB's Profit and Loss and Balance Sheet
statements are given in Annexes 2 and 3. They attest to the Bank-s healthy
financial condition, especially when due account is taken of its special
development role, which entails higher than average lending risks and
administrative costs (11% of average loan portfolio in 1979), both connected
with rapid increases in staff and training costs, and lending to scattered
traditional agricultural producers.
2.26     Net profits have been about K 300,000 (US$450,000) in each of 1978
and 1979 and have been the rule in the last five years with the exception of
1976 when there was a K 30,000 (US$45,000) deficit. However, this may
present an unduly optimistic picture for the last two years given the
loan arrears and a provision for bad debts at 5% of loan volume outstanding
which may not be adequate to cover eventual losses originating in 1978 and
1979 operations.
2.27     Assets amounted to K 37 million, liabilities to K 10 million and
equity to K 27 million at December 31, 1979. PNGDB's sound financial



- 11 -
condition (attested by a current ratio of 2.3 and a debt/equity ratio of
0.3) is due in no small measure to its large equity base, which would allow
the Bank to expand lending substantially in the near future. Lending and
income expenditure projections through 1984 have been prepared (Annex 4) and
show a sustained net income position in the next five years of operations.
Financial assistance for training and for meeting expatriate salary costs
would improve profitability substantially.
2.28      Performance of IDA-Assisted Projects.  PNGDB's performance under
IDA-assisted projects has been good. According to the PPAR of December 28,
1976, the New Britain Smallholder Development Projects (Credit 137-PNG and
the oil palm component in Credit 175-PNG) have been successful with respect
to all their major objectives: production, export earnings, stable settle-
ment and smallholder prosperity. Credit 175-PNG's $0.3 million coconut
component did not take off due to fears of nationalization among nonnational
owners of plantations. The Credit's cattle component was successful and
contributed to the development of the livestock subsector (PPAR of February 9,
1978). The Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm project (Credit 1333-PNG) is
progressing well regarding all its main components, e.g. smallholder and
plantation development; construction of an oil mill, housing and other
buildings; and roads.  Measures are being taken to improve smallholder
accounting. The Smallholder Livestock project (Credit 348-PNG) has been
completed in spite of difficulties experienced with the rapid losses of
nonnational staff and extension staff, provincialization which delayed field
development and especially affected the quality and timing of reporting to
management and to IDA. These have been taken into account under the proposed
project by bringing in management agents (para. 4.03) and by streamlining of
data processing (para. 2.20).
2.29     Summary.  In summary, PNGDB is a well managed, experienced
institution with a good operating performance and financial condition. The
need for specific improvements has been identified by management and action
is being taken or is planned on these.
Department of Primary Industry (DPI)
2.30     Organization.  The DPI is responsible for agriculture, forestry,
livestock and fisheries development. As a result of decentralization the
public services of DPI have been divided between the national and the pro-
vincial authorities. At the national level DPI is responsible for overall
policy and planning, operation of agricultural research stations and agri-
cultural colleges, provision of specialized technical support, pest and
disease eradication, quality control and implementation of large projects,
such as settlement schemes. These activities are performed by divisions,
which report to the Minister through a Permanent Secretary. The provincial
DPIs handle extension, preparation and execution of provincial development
plans, farmer training, support for PNGDB lending and supervision of forestry
operations. Typically, provincial staff report to the Provincial Administra-
tive Secretary (PAS) through the Provincial Rural Development Officer (PRDO).



- 12 -
The PAS in turn reports to the Provincial Minister for Agriculture. There are
no formal lines of communication or authority between the National and the
provincial DPIs.
2.31     Staffing and Training.  The national DPI has a staff of 1,370 or
43% of the total staff in agricultural, forestry, fisheries and livestock
services. Of these about 18% or 250 are expatriates. At February 28, 1980
the provincial DPIs had 19 PRDOs, 386 Rural Development Officers (RDOs, 3 year
diploma holders in agriculture), 552 Rural Development Technicians (2-year
certificate holders) and 885 Rural Development Assistants (with no formal
agricultural training) for a total staff of 1,842 or 57% of the total, with
very few expatriates. The quality of provincial staff is generally low
because many staff are inexperienced and lack formal technical training or on
the job training.
2.32     Planned Work Program.  The national DPI is directly in charge of
several large ranch/beef cattle projects (Markham Valley) three oil palm,
(Hoskins, Biala and Popondetta) and two rubber (Gavieng and Cape Rodney)
settlement schemes as well as a national hybrid seed coconut production and
breeding production center in the Omuru station in Madang. The Department is
also heavily involved in a sugar/grains/cattle project in the valley of the
Ramu river. Under these projects all required services are provided totally
independently of provincial resources. Provincial staff lack the guidance,
substantive commitment of resources and expertise to carry out more than
token farmer training and extension services. Their work programs are,
therefore, largely inadequate. More recently provincial governments have
started preparing provincial development plans and this should prove useful
in future.
2.33     Performance.  The centrally managed national and settlement projects
are being successfully developed. However, the ongoing decentralization has
in the short term contributed to weakening extension services all over the
country. The main reasons seem to be the resignation or termination of con-
tracts of large numbers of experienced expatriates and lack of suitable
replacements among nationals; lack of adequate coordination between national
and provincial staff; lack of leadership and a certain degree of politiciza-
tion of provincial staff; lack of goal-oriented activities in the provinces;
and largely inadequate on-the-job training. These problems are analyzed in
the Government/Bank support services review noted above.
Plantation Management
2.34     Coconut plantations were developed by expatriates from the beginning
of the century along the northern coasts of Papua, New Britain and New
Ireland. Coconut plantations and cocoa plantations (which were mostly
started in the early 1950s) account for about one half of 146,000 ha under
these two crops. More recently rubber development in about 3,000 ha was
largely carried out by plantation enterprises. Even before independence



- 13 -
uncertainty over future ownership and control of expatriate owned lands
created serious disincentives to investments and general upkeep of planta-
tions. The situation worsened when large numbers of managers left PNG after
Government announced its policy of transferring plantation ownership to
nationals. Inadequate maintenance and lack of management resulted in a
dramatic 30% reduction between 1974 and 1978 in the output of cocoa, copra
and rubber plantations. The Government recognizing the vacuum created in the
plantation management field has established a Plantation Management Training
Program (PMTP) and a National Plantation Management Agency (NPMA).
2.35     The PMTP was initiated in 1976 with assistance from UNDP/ILO.  The
training program is conducted by the Business Development Program Unit of
the Ministry of Commerce. The program is mainly aimed at providing training
to nationals in the fields of plantation operations and management, as well
as for operation of cocoa fermentaries. PMTP has a staff of nine of whom
four are expatriates and six additional staff are being recruited. So far
about 40 people who are working as manager/assistant managers of plantations
and as members of boards of directors of plantations have been trained. In
addition, training has been given to 256 people in the field of cocoa fer-
mentary operations. Training is both theoretical and practical. PMTP using
specialist services from Government and private sources to augment its
resources. So far PMTP has played only a limited successful role in pro-
viding trained plantation managers and submanagers, because entrants have had
limited education and no prior field experience.
2.36     In 1977 the Government established NPMA mainly to provide management
services to plantations which had been taken over by nationals. NPMA is
wholly owned by the Government and has nine directors of whom two are
appointed by the Government, five are representatives from the plantation
industry and two are from PNGDB and PNG Banking Corporation. NPMA has its
head office in Port Moresby and five regional offices in Rabaul, Madang,
Goroka, Mt. Hagen and Port Moresby. It has a total staff of 80, of whom
about one half are expatriates. The staff is generally highly qualified and
experienced. The agency manages 48 plantations and the demand for its
services is strong. The Government is giving consideration to strengthening
NPMA's staff and finances so that it can take on the management of more
plantations. In addition to NPMA there are about 14 private management
companies and also individuals who are providing assistance to plantations
under separate contracts. NPMA's and private management services are
essential in expanding agricultural productivity and production given the
present lack of management expertise among nationals.
Marketing Agencies
2.37     Statutory marketing boards exist for copra, coffee and cocoa.
These boards are primarily producer boards but include Government
representation.



- 14 -
2.38      The Copra Marketing Board is the only one which is directly involved
in physical marketing and is the sole exporter of copra in PNG. The Board
operates collection depots throughout the major producing areas /1 and is
also responsible for administering the copra stabilization fund which is a
price support scheme funded by compulsory levies on copra and coconut oil
exports. The levies are only imposed when prices are above the level needed
to give producers incomes which would provide for a decent livelihood.
Bounties are paid when price falls below this level. The Fund did provide
relief to growers in the years 1971-73 and again in 1975-76. Total
accumulated funds as of December 31, 1979 stood at K 11 million.
2.39      The coffee and cocoa boards do not enter into physical marketing of
these crops but function as export regulatory agencies, registering processors
and exporters and approving overseas sales contracts. The boards require all
processing facilities to be registered and regulate the activities of buyers
and dealers. The boards also administer stabilization funds which provide
for price support schemes for these crops. Funds for these purposes and for
operation of the boards are obtained from levies on exports. The levies or
bounties are equal to 50% of the difference between actual export price and
the average export price of the previous ten years, adjusted for inflation.
The coffee and cocoa funds have not so far paid out any bounties and have
accumulated substantial reserves, amounting to K 145 million (US$218 million)
by the end of 1979 owing to the high prices which have generally prevailed in
the last ten years.
2.40      The Papuan  Rubber Pool (a group of forwarding agents) coordinates
rubber exports. While there is a Rubber Board, its function presently is
limited to adjudicating on appeals arising from disputes over inspection
undertaken at the time of export. The Government is however giving consid-
eration to expanding the role of this Board. Palm oil and kernels are
exported by the respective nucleus estate companies under government super-
vision and tea is exported by private brokers. Commercial pigs and poultry
are sold through well established marketing channels in the main population
areas. They represent a very small proportion of total production, which is
carried out (especially for pigs) by villagers for their own consumption.
2.41      In summary, marketing of the main cash crops and commercial pigs and
poultry is well organized and functions properly. Regrettably, this cannot
be said of annual crops for domestic consumption. In 1976 the government
established the Food Marketing Corporation to provide marketing services
mainly for fruits and vegetables. Up until this year, the Corporation's
performance has been unsatisfactory since its inception and it has incurred
/1 Producers receive an initial payment of around 90% of the estimated
final price on delivery with the balance paid at the end of the
trading year taking into account the actual export prices.



- 15 -
heavy losses in the process. Operations are expected to reach break-even
level this year. The Government is contemplating a reorganization and
additional funding of the Corporation.
III. THE PROJECT
Origin
3.01     The proposed project follows up on four previous crop and livestock
oriented IDA-financed projects involving PNGDB which go back to 1968: three
of these agricultural development projects (Credits 137, 175 and 348), have
been completed and the fourth, Credit 1333 is expected to be completed ahead
of schedule. Performance under all four projects has been generally good
(para. 2.28). The proposed project was identified and prepared by Government
with the help of consultants.
Objectives
3.02     The main objective of the Project is to improve the standard of
living of about 4,000 subsistence farm families particularly in the dis-
advantaged areas of the country by increasing productivity, production (and
exports) of tree crops, and to a lesser degree, of pigs and poultry, which
together account for the bulk of existing and potential marketable agricul-
tural production in the country. The project would lead to substantial
increases in employment, participation of nationals in the cash economy and
transfer to smallholders of improved farming practices including land conser-
vation which would also have an impact on subsistence agriculture. A
subsidiary project objective is to lay the basis for future development of
coastal areas by substantially increasing supplies of hybrid coconut planting
material.
Brief Description
3.03     The project would finance over a period of three years (mid-1980
to mid-1983) a share of PNGDB's planned agricultural lending and also
support the expansion of related agricultural services. The Project
consists of two principal components: (a) lending for field development of
coffee, cocoa, oil palms and rubber in a flexible manner based on demand; and
of piggery and poultry enterprises (US$23 million); and (b) supporting
services, such as expansion of hybrid coconut planting material supplies,
plantation management, extension. Provision is also made for monitoring/
evaluation, consultants to help PNGDB with data processing and evaluation, and
financial planning, and studies (US$ 6 million).



- 16 -
Detailed Features
3.04     Field Development.  The present estimate is that funds would be
used to clear about 8,000 ha and plant about 2,500 ha of coffee, 1,200 ha of
cacao, 2,800 ha of rubber and 1,500 ha of oil palms largely in blocks adja-
cent to existing plantings or in new settlement areas which would permit
economic exploitation of holdings. However, the areas indicated are for
illustrative purposes only since it would be impossible to estimate accu-
rately the location and volume of potential subloan demand. Planned field
development is based on the most promising investments based on current
investor familiarity and interest, available management and favorable
marketing prospects. During implementation it is proposed that lending for
other crops be included if it is established to the satisfaction of PNGDB and
Government that such lending is justified. In the livestock sector it is
proposed to finance only a few commercial size piggeries and broiler units
owned by about 4,000 small rural investors and serviced by 200-300 small
fattening enterprises in the areas of Lae and Port Moresby, which offer the
best prospects. The proposed concentration of management (but not of
ownership) is based on poor results obtained with small family-size opera-
tions scattered over many parts of the country under previous projects.
Assurances were obtained from Government that project investments would be
completed beyond 1983.
3.05     Support Services.  The proposal for coconut development is limited
to establishing the basis for future large scale plantings of higher yield-
ing hybrids by increasing the area and number of hybrid seed gardens, e.g.
a 10-ha extension to Omuru central station and two new 40-ha gardens in
Central Province and New Ireland; the opening of 100 one-ha hybrid observa-
ion/demonstration plots in major coconut growing areas and distribution of
hybrid seednuts to estates and smallholdings.
3.06     Also under support services Government funds would be made avail-
able: (a) to NPMA mainly for staff quarters and offices; (b) to PNGDB to
staff a pilot cocoa smallholder rehabilitation program in New Britain (which
will be eventually transferred to the provincial government) and to hire
consultants for data processing, financial planning and evaluation; (c) to
provincial governments (as is the case already in Eastern Highlands province)
for the staffing, vehicle purchases and establishment of other facilities to
organize and initially operate crop development teams which would help with
the preparation of farm plans, registration of farmers groups and lands and
supervision; and (d) to the appropriate agencies to pay for studies
recommended during the ongoing review of support services.
3.07     Monitoring and Evaluation.  It is essential to provide effective
project monitoring and evaluation given the paucity of data at smallholder
level and the importance of the project for future development of the
country. Monitoring data would be regularly collected by management agents
and settlement authorities and relayed to PNGDB. It would include input



- 17 -
supplies, planting material production, area cleared and planted, and
harvested yields. This monitoring system is in the process of being intro-
duced by PNGDB and would be particularly helpful in detecting quickly chang-s
in costs, yields, marketing conditions and demand for loans which might lead
to changing project mixes. Evaluation including the impact of increased
project-induced production on villagers' incomes would be carried out by a
consultant hired by PNGDB.
Estimated Cost
3.08      The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at about K 19 million (US$29 million ) of which about 38% would repre-
sent foreign exchange requirements. The high proportion of local costs is
due to the nature of the project, which deals largely with subsistence
smallholders and which involves a high labor component. Of the total cost,
about 3% is for taxes and duties. Costs are based on December 1980 prices.
No contingencies are included in the field development (credit) component.
For the support services component, a physical contingency of 5% and esti-
mated price escalations amounting to 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, and 7.5% in
1983/84 have been included. Together, the contingencies would amount to
US$800,000 or 15% of the total cost of the support services. Project costs
are presented in Annex 5, and are summarized in Table 1.
Financing
3.09     Beneficiaries would contribute US$2.3 million or 10% of field
development costs (in line with established PNGDB arrangements); PNGDB,
US$7.2 million or 32%; Government, US$0.6 million or 3% as its subsidy
towards development costs of new subprojects;/l and IDA, US$12.6 million or
55%. For support services Government would contribute US$3.5 million or 60%
and IDA, US$2.4 million or 40%. Of the $15.0 million IDA Credit, $4.0
million would finance local costs. Local cost financing is required because
the types of projects to be financed tend to be relatively small and labor-
intensive, and have low foreign exchange components. Such financing would
be consistent with the IDA country strategy of supporting the Government's
plans to bring cash crop development to subsistence farmers. Government
would be the borrower and would assume the foreign exchange risk. Addition-
ally, and not included in project costs, (because it predates the project
and is not limited to it) Government is financing through 1983 PNGDB's staff
training costs of about US$1 million. Project financing is summarized in
Table 2.
/1 The amount of US$0.6 million is an estimate as the exact amount would
depend on the actual number and mix of the subprojects. About 80% of
this development cost subsidy would go towards management fees with the
remaining for costs of land survey, soil tests and tools.



- 18 -
Table 1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  foreign
--- (K M) -------  ------ (US$ M) -----  exchange
I. Field Development
Coffee               4.8      2.2      7.0    7.2      3.3    10.5       32
Rubber               1.4      1.0      2.4    2.1      1.5      3.6      41
Cocoa                1.5      0.3      1.8    2.2      0.5     2.7       16
Oil palms            0.9      0.1      1.0    1.3      0.2      1.5       7
Crop processing      0.2      0.4      0.6    0.3      0.6     0.9       66
Piggeries/poultry   1.3       1.0      2.3    2.0      1.5      3.5      44
Subtotal         10.1      5.0    15.1   15.1       7.6    22.7       33
II. Support Services
Hybrid coconuts      1.0      0.8      1.8    1.5      1-2     2.7       44
NPMA buildings       0.2      0.3      0.5    0.3      0.4      0.7      57
Cocoa New Britain   0.2       0.1     0.3    0.3       0.2     0.5       25
Crop development
teams              0.2      0.1     0.3    0.3      0.2      0.5       25
Consultants            -      0.2     0.2       -      0.3     0.3      100
Studies                -      0.3     0.3       -      0.4     0.4      100
Subtotal          1.6      1.8     3.4    2.4      2.7      5.1       52
Total Baseline
Costs            11.7      6.8    18.5   17.5    10.3    27.8         36
Support services
contingencies:
Physical         0.05    0.1      0.2    0.1      0.2      0.3       70
Price            0.1      0.2     0.3    0.2      0.3      0.5       60
Total Project
Costs             11.9      7.1    19.0   17.8    10.8    28.6         38



- 19 -
Table 2:   FINANCING PLAN
Beneficiaries      PNGDB      Government       IDA       Total
US$M    %     US$M    %    US$M    %    US$M    %   US$M
I. Field
Development        2.3   10       7.2   32    0.6      3    12.6   55   22.7
II. Support
Services           -      -       -      -    3.5    60      2.4   40    5.9
Total
Project
Cost         2.3    8       7.2   25    4.1    15    15.0   52   28.6
3.10      The Government would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement (SLA)
with PNGDB under which $12.6 million of project funds would be transferred
to PNGDB at 3% interest rate repayable in 22 years including 5 years of
grace for principal. These terms are in line with expected project generated
cashflows. The SLA would be agreed with IDA, and its signing would be a
condition of effectiveness. Retroactive financing for up to US$1.5 million
would be made available to cover drawdowns on PNGDB lending beginning June 1,
1980 and based on policies and procedures which are deemed adequate. Retro-
active financing is required because PNGDB has already incurred considerable
expenditures during the past 10 months to enlarge its lending, in expectation
of this project. If PNGDB had not enlarged its lending, farmers' loan
demand would have diminished as a result of uncertainty and farm management
agreements could have become ineffective. Additionally, the hybrid coconut
program would have been delayed.
3.11     In addition, PNGDB would receive supplementary funds from the
Government to implement the latter's subsidy scheme for agricultural
development (para. 1.12). These funds would provide for: (a) reimbursement
to PNGDB for granting subloans at lower interest rates of 5% p.a. in dis-
advantaged districts,/l and (b) the Government's contribution towards meeting
/1 PNGDB's regular on-lending rate would be 9% under the project. The
additional funds would make up the difference between the subsidized
and regular rates. While, the exact size of the additional funds is
difficult to estimate as it would depend upon the location, size and
mix of subprojects, however broad estimates indicate that subloans in
disadvantaged districts are unlikely to exceed 30% of total lending
under project. On this basis, the interest subsidy would total about
K 2.1 million (US$3.1 million) over full repayment period (22 years) of
subloans financed under project.



- 20 -
part of the development costs of new subprojects. PNGDB would pass on these
development costs subsidies to the management companies reponsible for
developing subprojects./I
Procurement
3.12     Land clearing and preparation, planting and upkeep (amounting to
about $17.0 million) would be carried out by the beneficiaries themselves or
by hired labor. Planting materials (US$2.0 million) would be acquired
through local shopping arrangements from the few existing local sources.
These have adequate supplies. Building materials, small machinery, equipment
and accesories (US$2.9 million) and fertilizer and chemicals (US$1.6 million)
would be supplied through agents of local and foreign firms (which are well
represented in the country) through prudent shopping in accordance with
Government's procedures which are satisfactory. Civil works would be awarded
following similar procedures. Field management (US$2.7 million) would be
contracted by participating farmers to experienced local firms which offer
these services on the basis of a preselection made by the PNGDB. These
arrangements have proven satisfactory in the past. Approximately 27 man-
months of short term and largely foreign expenditure would be required at a
total cost of about US$260,000. The average man-month cost of the experts is
estimated at US$7,000 and includes fees, vehicles, travel and allowances.
3.13      Terms of reference for data processing, financial planning and
evaluation reviews (US$0.3 million) will be prepared in consultation with
IDA. Assurances were obtained on this, as well as that terms of reference
for the studies and for the consultants (US$0.5 million) would be prepared in
consultation with IDA.
Disbursements
3.14      Disbursements against the IDA credit would be made on the basis of
(a) 35% of the cost of civil works; (b) 35% of expenditures for vehicles and
equipment, which are to be procured locally; (c) 100% of the cost of
consultants services; (d) 66% of subloans made by PNGDB for crops and
livestock; and (e) 66% of staff salaries for crop development programs.
Disbursements against free-limit subloans (para. 4.04) and staff salaries
for crop development programs would be made on the basis of certified
statements of expenditure; supporting documentation would be retained by
PNGDB for subloans and by DPI for staff salaries, and would be made
available for review by supervision missions. All other disbursements would
be made against full documentation. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1984.  An estimated schedule of disbursements is
summarized below.
/1 Total development cost subsidy for subprojects financed under proposed
project is estimated to amount to K 0.4 million (US$0.6 million) over
three years (para. 3.09).



- 21 -
Table 3   ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
IDA fiscal       Disbursements
year           during year        Cumulative
1982                6.4                6.4
1983                5.6               12.0
1984                3.0               15.0
Accounts and Audit
3.15      PNGDB has an efficient accounting and record keeping system and
its internal audits are well organized. External audit would continue to be
carried out by the Auditor General. PNGDB and other participating agencies
would keep separate project accounts and audited project and agency accounts
and these will be furnished to the Bank within six months of the closing of
its fiscal year. The auditors reports will contain opinions on the
procedures used for preparing PNGDB financial statements. Assurances were
obtained to this effect.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
4.01      Project organization would consist of the following:
(a)  overall project management:  a Project Steering Committee (SC)
chaired by the Secretary of Finance, and including PNGDB's
managing director, the Secretaries of the departments of Primary
Industries, Lands and Commerce, the Registrar General and relevant
provincial government representatives would meet at least twice a
year and would be responsible for policy, inter-agency coordina-
tion, budget approval and overall review of operations. Estab-
lishment of the SC and appointment of its members will be a
condition of effectiveness.
(b)  project's field development component:  PNGDB would be responsible
for channeling funds and for supervision through its branches
with the support of technical staff at headquarters, and with the
participation of NPMA and private persons and firms to be
appointed by project beneficiaries from short lists prepared by
PNGDB (mainly for coffee, pigs and poultry), and settlement
authorities and DPI staff (for cocoa, rubber and oil palms).



- 22 -
These would manage the establishment and development of farms
and pigs/poultry enterprises until PNGDB ascertains that the
owners can perform these satisfactorily.
(c) support services: (i) PNGDB would be responsible for an intensi-
fied provincial cocoa development effort in New Britain, as well
as for the preparation of a follow-up project; PNGDB would
prepare the terms of reference and appoint the consultancies
affecting PNGDB; (ii) DPI's coconut development unit would
be responsible for the hybrid coconut program; (iii) the Finance
Department would directly supervise the investments in NPMA and
and the studies and (iv) provincial governments would be respon-
sible for the crop development teams./l Both PNGDB's managing,
and deputy, director-s terms of office expire in October, 1981.
Government will take steps to ensure PNGDB management continuity
during project implementation.
Lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions
4.02      Lending Procedures.  As in the past, in existing cocoa and coffee
areas, farmers or clan leaders would be contacted by staff of either PNGDB,
management agencies, crop development teams or provincial extension services
and informed about the project. Farmers who show definite interest would be
helped by the above staff in organizing themselves legally as business groups.
These in turn would obtain title to their previously surveyed and demarcated
lands, which must be in minimum of 15/20 ha blocks. There would be at least
six blocks reasonably close to each other to justify hiring and paying for
professional management. This process is slow and complicated, involving
staff of the Decentralization and Land departments, as well as provincial
staff. However, it is expected that for the project it would take about three
months based on experience gained already with land titling at the provincial
level and most importantly because management agents would help with group
registration and titling with the assistance of private solicitors and
surveyors in cases where provincial and national government staff could not do
the job in a timely fashion. At May 31, 1980 147 loan requests had been fully
processed and lending was planned to start immediately. Processing of new
requests is being continued to provide a steady flow of lending through the
project period.
4.03      The relevant PNGDB field office, after being approached for a loan
by one or more business groups would establish that there were at least six
such groups in reasonable proximity to each other before asking them to
/1 One is already operating and two more are planned for coffee before the
end of 1980 in the Eastern Highlands. Teams would help farmers with
the processing of documents for organizing legally recognized groups
of owners and establishing clear titles to their lands.



- 23 -
choose a manager from a PNGDB-approved list./l The manager would subse-
quently prepare a farm plan, arrange for creditworthiness analysis of the
potential borrowers and subsequently would be in charge of developing the
blocks (with the assistance of selected farmers, PMTP trainees and extension
staff) including land clearing and preparation, maintenance, input supplies
and marketing of produce. The Government would subsidize part of the manage-
ment fees (up to K 2,400/subproject) while the remaining management fees
would become part of the subloan extended by PNGDB./2 The phasing out of
management services would be over 4 years to 7 years for each group depending
on the group's ability to assume management responsibilities as determined by
PNGDB's branch managers. Government subsidy for management fees would be
channelled through PNGDB. For oil palm and rubber settlement areas which
have families and land rights already established and settlement authorities
already in place procedures would be limited to PNGDB approval of management
and subsequent loan processing. Commercial poultry and piggery investors
will be relatively few in number and will be in much better position than
participating farmers to arrange for land leases and adequate management, and
hence no complications are expected. The above procedures have proved
satisfactory in the past.
4.04      Terms and Conditions.  The following terms and conditions which
would be included in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement would apply to lending
under the project:
(a) Interest Rates payable by subborrowers would be a minimum of
9%./3
(b) Repayment Terms would be based on the technical/financial
profile of the field investments to be made. The repayment
periods (in years and grace period in parenthesis) are expected
to be as follows: coffee and cocoa, 12(5); oil palm, 9(5);
rubber, 14(8).
(c) Free Limit of K 100,000 is proposed. Individual subloan in
excess of K 100,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval
before it is approved by PNGDB.
/1 There would be about fourteen private management companies available for
the project additional to NPMA, which is more than adequate to handle an
estimated 360 holdings covering an area of 3,700 ha.
/2 The contribution of K 2,400/subproject amounts to about 8% (20 ha
coffee/cocoa subproject) of total management fees over six years.
/3  PNGDB lends at 9% to smallholders and up to 11.5% for plantations.



- 24 -
(d) Subborrowers Contribution. The subborrowers would make an
average 10% equity contribution to their farm investments in
form of cash, labor and materials.
4.05      Notwithstanding the subloan terms and conditions in para. 4.04
above, eligible subborrowers (in disadvantaged districts and those undertaking
new subprojects) would receive subsidies in line with the Government-s
subsidy program (para. 1.12) as follows: (a) in disadvantaged districts,
subborrowers would be charged a lower interest rate amounting to 5% p.a.
Interest subsidy would only apply to first K 100,000 of the subloan, and (b)
subsidy of upto K 3000/subproject would be provided to cover part of the
development costs of new subprojects. PNGDB would implement this subsidy
program, on behalf of the Government, for which it would receive
supplementary funds (para. 3.11).
V. INPUTS AND YIELDS
Inputs:  Agriculture
5.01      Planting Material.  In an effort to introduce high yielding,
certified (and in the case of cocoa, dieback-resistant) planting material,
government and settlement area nurseries provide seedlings at cost. This
practice would be continued under the project. Planting material would be
supplied by the Highlands Agricultural Experiment Station for coffee; by
Keravat and provincial nurseries for cocoa; by Dami Research Station for oil
palms; and by DPI nurseries for rubber. Present land and facilities are
adequate for anticipated demand, including the project.
5.02      Fertilizer and Pesticides.  All fertilizers and pesticides will be
imported and distributed by private dealers as in the past. Fertilizers
would be applied according to existing recommendations or following soil and
foliar analyses for which the facilities and arrangements exist locally.
5.03      Labor.  Most of the land clearing, preparation, planting and upkeep
will be done manually and in selected cases with the help of chainsaws
(purchased and maintained by the respective managements) by the beneficiaries
themselves, and by members of their clans. In cases when these were inade-
quate, hired labor from neighboring villages would be used. No labor
shortages are expected based on past experience, the participation of other
clan members in members sub-projects and on the wide geographic dispersal of
investments.
5.04      Management and Supervision.  The supply to individual farms of all
inputs would be made under the direct control of management agents and their
field staff. The latter would be recruited from among beneficiary groups to
ensure their acceptability, but managers would have complete freedom of



- 25 -
appointment and firing in consultation with the groups of farmers to maintain
high operating standards.
Inputs: Piggeries and Poultry
5.05      Breeding Boars, Sows and Chicks.  These breeding stock would be
imported as in the past duty free from well established sources, which offer
high quality, reliable supplies and low costs, based on their proximity to
PNG and through existing distribution channels.
5.06      Feed and Medicines.  PNG has been steadily expanding domestic
grain production (mainly maize and sorghum) in the Markham valley (close to
Lae) and around Port Moresby at costs that are 10-20% lower than landed
costs of imports. Under the project it is expected that initially local
grain supplies would represent 30% of total needs and would expand to about
50% of requirements three years later. The balance of grains, as well as
other feed ingredients (and medicines) would be imported. Existing feed
mills in Lae and Port Moresby are running at about 20% under capacity and
would make the balanced feeds required for different stages of breeding and
fattening.
5.07      Sheds, Machinery and Vehicles.  Sheds would be built with imported
and local materials, and vehicles, machinery, and equipment would be
imported directly by the poultry/piggery operators or from local dealers of
foreign firms.
5.08      Labor.  Breeding and processing facilities would hire labor and
fatteners would provide family labor.
5.09      Management and Supervision.  Commercial managers of the breeding/
processing facilities would procure inputs directly from shippers and would
provide inputs and supervision to fattener contractors. These arrangements
have worked well in the past.
Yields
5.10      Coffee.  Most of the investments would be made for arabica coffee
in 20 ha blocks owned by clans in the Highlands. At full development, yields
are expected to average 2.5 m tons/ha green beans per ha, which, although
high by world standards is a realistic estimate based on PNG experience in
the Highlands, where soils and climate are particularly favorable. In small-
holder blocks developed largely under their own initiative yields are expec-
ted to average 0.9 m tons/ha. Cocoa would largely be developed in New
Britain and North Solomons, where favorable ecological conditions, use of
hybrids and adequate management should result in yields at full production of
about 1.2 m tons/ha somewhat higher than elsewhere in the world. Under
smallholder conditions, yields are assumed to be 600 kg/ha in peak years.
Rubber would be planted in the Cape Rodney (Central Province) and Gavien



- 26 -
(East Sepik) settlement schemes and in village blocks. Yields at maturity
are estimated to average 1.6 m tons/ha dry rubber content for settlers and
about 20% less for villagers, which is conservative for modern high-yielding
material. Oil palms would be planted on settlement and village blocks at
Hoskins in New Britain. Average yields are estimated at 16 m tons/ha/p.a.
fresh fruit bunch. This is based on specific conditions which apply in PNG,
such as early peak yields, and take into account pollination problems. All
of these relatively high yields would be obtained by concentrating invest-
ments in the relatively few ecologically favorable areas of the country.
5.11      Piggeries and Broilers.  Minimum size operations would consist of
150 sows, and 5,000 birds per week, respectively, which can justify profes-
sional management and improved inputs. Litter size of eight, with two
farrowings a year for pigs; and eight-week growing period with average weight
of 1.70 kg for birds are assumed. The above yields are based on sound, pro-
fessional management and supervision provided by experienced private agents.
IV. MARKETING, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY
Marketing
6.01      The main features of the marketing of PNG's most important crops
are the relatively small volumes handled, the very important role of the
private sector, their overwhelming orientation towards exports, their
physical concentration in a few processing and export points, and the high
degree of organization of collection, processing and sales.
6.02      In the cases of coffee and cocoa small farmers typically sell
their crops to competing middlemen at roadside or to processors (based on
regular price information provided through the radio) who subsequently sell
to exporters. Plantations usually sell directly to exporters in processed
form. Government has established boards for both coffee and cocoa (para.
2.39) which help with orderly marketing and price stabilization. Processing
and sales of palm oil and kernels are handled by the nucleus estate companies
and their overseas representatives, while rubber marketing is carried out by
the Papuan Rubber Pool (para. 2.40). Future marketing of project - induced
copra and coconut oil would be handled by the Copra Marketing Board (para.
2.38) which buys dry copra from farmers at roadside, and sells abroad.
Marketing arrangements for the above crops are adequate.
6.03      Present volumes of annual production and project-induced annual
production by 1990 (in parentheses) for the above crops are (in m tons):
coffee 47,000 (8,000); cocoa, 27,000 (1,400); palm oil, 30,000 (5,000); and
rubber 4,200 (3,500). No difficulties are foreseen in marketing the
incremental production of these crops given their insignificant size in
relation to the size of the world market, and specifically in view of the



- 27 -
preferential treatment accorded by Australia (priority in buying and
duty-free status) to imports from PNG.
6.04      Pork and broiler meat would replace imports and would be sold
locally in Lae and Port Moresby using existing retail channels which should
be adequate. Project-induced production would represent about 25% of
projected total national production of broilers and less than 2% of pork,
through 1995. The percentage for pork would be about 20% of the projected
supplies for Lae and Port Moresby (the two main consumption centers) for the
same period.
Prices
6.05      The mission assumed the following world market prices for 1985-90
at 1980 prices:
Table 4: PRICE FORECASTS
1980    1985    1990
Coffee (US$/kg)           3.62    3.04    3.33
Cocoa (US$/kg)            3.52    2.68    1.83
Palm oil (US$/MT)           611     615      594
kernels (US$/MT)      462      470     454
Rubber (US$/kg)            1.44    1.52    1.67
Farmgate prices are based on the above and are estimated to be about 85% to
90% of FOB prices. In the case of cocoa they would be supported by the
Cocoa Board at about the level of expected 1985 world market prices, which
would stil be attractive to farmers. The relatively narrow margins are due
mainly to favorable location of project areas and access to good roads, as
well as to marketing margins of the order of only 5% which are due to a high
level of competition among traders and processors (coffee and cocoa) and to
reasonably low management authority fees (rubber and palm oil).
6.06      Pork prices ex-abattoir are estimated to average K 2/kg and
dressed broilers should sell for K 1.70/kg or roughly at the same levels of
import prices. The general price trend is favorable, with demand in Lae and
Port Moresby (the two largest and fastest growing urban centers) projected
to surpass domestic supply through 1990.



- 28 -
Project Impact on Participating Farmers
6.07      Detailed farm models are found in project files.  Annex 8, Table 2
summarizes the financial and economic rates of return of typical invest-
ments to be financed. The typical farm models show reasonably attractive
net cash flow positions. The key to this favorable financial performance is
the professional management which would be made available to farmers.
Incremental net cash family incomes per annum between US$450 (cocoa) and
US$3,200 (rubber) at maturity would represent from 145 to 360% of incomes
without the project. The estimated financial rates of return to partici-
pating farmers would be from about 17% to 30%. Selfcontained pig breeding/
fattening units, and 5,000 birds per week broiler operations would produce
rates of return of 20% to 23%.
Project Impact on PNGDB
6.08      The Project's impact on PNGDB is detailed in Annex 7, which shows
a generally improving net income and liquidity position through 1990./1
PNGDB-s average loan portfolio would increase as follows:
Table 5: PROJECT IMPACT ON PNGDB
(K million)
1980   1981   1982   1983
Average Loan Portfolio
Without the Project              31.0   33.0   36.4   39.7
With the Project                 32.9   39.1   47.5   52.8
% of increase                     6      18     30      33
The substantial percentage increases indicate the importance of the project
in expanding PNGDB's lending operations. This is especially true for medium
and long-term agricultural investments.
6.09      Additional to this the project would have other benefits for PNGDB.
First, it would enable PNGDB to make use of the increased staffing and
facilities, and of field management arrangements and promotion among farmers,
all of which were made in expectation of increased funding. Second, it would
help substantially to reduce arrears through the improved field technical
support and supervision by management agents and the geographic and crop
concentration of investments.
/1 Subsidized lending by PNGDB in disadvantaged district would not have
any adverse financial impact on PNGDB as it would be fully compensated
by the Government.



- 29 -
Project Impact on Government and Cost Recovery
6.10      Over the project's three-year period, central government would
contribute K 2.3 million to defray part of the costs of support services. In
addition its contribution towards development costs subsidy and interest sub-
sidy is estimated to amount to K 0.4 million (over 3 years) and K 2.1 million
(over 22 years) respectively, in nominal terms (para. 3.11). These expendi-
tures amount to K 2.8 in present value terms at 12%. Of this, about K 1.3
million would be recovered, over a 10-year period at 12%, from sale of hybrid
coconut seedlings and NPMA fees. Export duties at 2.5% of fob value of
project generated incremental production would produce an estimated
additional government revenues of K 1.7 million discounted at 12% over a
30-year period. In summary all project associated costs borne by government
through its budget, would be fully recovered.
VII. BENEFITS, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION
Beneficiaries and Benefits
7.01      The number of farmers who would be project beneficiaries is diffi-
cult to estimate with any accuracy given the impossibility of predicting the
relative shares of the different crops which would be financed, which in turn
depends on effective demand in several large and different geographic areas of
the country. An additional difficulty is that in many cases the beneficiaries
would be clans, with income being distributed in different proportions and
often including clan members who did not actively participate in farm
development. However, assuming that basic tentative estimates are correct
(based on farm sizes per crop as stated elsewhere), the probable number of
beneficiaries would be:



- 30 -
Table 6: PROJECT BENEFICIARIES
Total
Crop or enterprise                 Size      No. of    Families        no. of
of farm    farms      per farm      families
(ha)
Coffee                               20        125         10          1,250
Cocoa                                 5         240         2            480
Rubber                                2      1,400          1          1,400
Oil palms                             2         750         1            750
Subtotal                            -          -          -          3,880
Piggeries/poultry fatteners                                              220
Total                                                                4,100
Additionally, from 4,000 families to 5,000 families who would be small
shareholders in the central piggeries/poultry enterprises would also benefit
from the project. PNGDB would ensure as in the past that shareholding will
be widely spread among the people of the areas where these investments would
be made.
7.02     A large majority of beneficiaries would be families with present
per capita annual incomes of US$275 to US$350 which are only slightly above
the absolute per capita poverty income level in rural areas of US$275 for
1979. Although rural income differentials are difficult to estimate in the
absence of any kind of reliable statistical data, it appears reasonable to
assume that income differentials are generally rather small because of the
prevalent system of clan welfare. As a result of the latter, there would be
a diffusion of benefits beyond those who are direct project participants.
7.03     PNGDB will benefit by increasing lending volume to utilize existing,
underutilized staff and facilities. These would result in an improved
financial condition which should be self-sustaining in future. Experience
gained with existing and new (hybrid coconuts) permanent tree crops and
piggeries/poultry would be applicable in future expanded programs for the
development of the priority agricultural areas.
7.04     Government, while ultimately recovering its investments, would also
benefit by setting the basis for larger, well balanced development of those
geographic areas where the bulk of the rural population live at present.
Increased economic activity and incomes will justify additional infrastruc-
ture and complementary field investments, such as for grains production used



- 31 -
for feed, and associated subsistence food production in participating and
neighboring farms. The demonstration effect is bound to be large. Finally,
participating farmers, field supervisors, provincial extension staff and
management trainees will gain experience by working with capable managers.
Economic Analyses
7.05      The estimated economic rate of return (representing an average of
various farm models used) would be: coffee - 35%, cocoa - 15%, rubber - 27%,
oil palms - 34%, piggeries and broilers - 26%. The estimated overall econo-
mic rate of return over a 25-year period is 30% (Annex 7, Table 1).
7.06      The above estimates are based on the following assumptions:
(a)  a shadow field manual wage at 60% of the prevailing K 2.30
(US$3.45) per day minimum official rural wage. This takes
into consideration the levels of wages and value of food paid for
self-help projects which indicate a degree of underemployment;
and
(b) local costs adjusted by a standard conversion factor of 0.96 to
bring costs to border price levels.
Sensitivity Analyses
7.07      The most probable and relevant variables affecting the project are
changes in output prices and yields. Sensitivity analyses for the nine most
probable farm models (Annex 7, Table 2) using 12% as the opportunity cost of
capital shows that overall project investments would be justified even with
a yield or price decline of the order of 40% or cost increases of 75% above
base estimates. However, smallholder cocoa is much more sensitive than the
other investments. It would only take a 11% unfavorable change in benefits
or a 17% change in labor costs to bring down the return from 15% to 12%
(Annex 7, Table 2).
Risks
7.08      The project is national in scope and supports investments in
several crops as well as livestock, and caters for a large number of
individual borrowers drawn from diverse cultural backgrounds, many of whom
are entering market-oriented production for the first time. Consequently,
the project faces some organizational risks, legal problems associated with
land ownership, difficulties in ensuring adequate labor supplies at
reasonable cost, and the possibility of crop and livestock diseases.
However, improved management, which is an important feature of the project,
should ensure cost-effective operations, deal with some of the
organizational and legal problems, and minimize any losses stemming from
diseases. Moreover, the project allows considerable flexibility in



- 32 -
financing subprojects as conditions warrant, and overall risks would
therefore be minimized. Given the limited application of fertilizers and
chemicals, there are limited risks associated with increases in their prices,
while pig and poultry prices are expected to remain relatively stable
because the products are intended for the local markets which are expected
to be undersupplied for about a decade.
Environmental Impact
7.09      The areas to be developed agriculturally are presently under old
plantings, primary or secondary forests, often in undulating or steeper
topography. The project will help reduce uncontrolled shifting cultivation
in highly erodable terrain by introducing permanent trees in a stable, long
lasting agricultural system which will preserve favorable ecological
conditions.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMNDATIONS
8.01      The following agreements with Government were obtained during
negotiations:
(a)  that credit-related investments will be completed using government
and/or PNGDB funds beyond the termination of project funding
(para. 3.04);
(b)  terms of reference for consultants and for studies will be
prepared in consultation with IDA (para. 3.13); and
(c)  participating agencies will maintain separate project accounts
and audited project and agency accounts will be furnished to IDA
within six months of the closing of the fiscal year (para. 3.15).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness will be:
(a)  the signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between Government and
PNGDB (para. 3.10); and
(b)  the establishment of the Steering Committee and the appointment of
its members (para. 4.01).
8.03      Subject to the above the project constitutes a suitable basis for
an IDA credit of US$15 million.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA DEVELOPNENT BANK
Organization Chart
Board of
Directors
Managing Director
Deputy Managing
Director
Administsrationce   |                                Acou nts               Tehia                OpXera:ions l
Department   l       liso  Seprvient ls           Department               Department      IDepartment l
-------------------_   |   BRANCHES   (9)
( Agentstaf                          Sub-Branches (4)      REPRESENTATIVES (18)
____ January 21, 1980
As at January 21, 1980



- 34 -                                 ANNEX 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Papua New Guinea Development Bank
Income and Expenditure: Mid-1974 to End-1979
(K millions)
Year to June 30        Year to December 31
1975   1976   1977       1977   1978   1979
(1/2 yr)   /a      /b
Income
Interest on loans                   1.78   2.07   2.07        1.26   2.72   3.06
Interest on bonds & deposits        0.63   0.43   0.71        0.21   0.24   0.18
Other income                        0.17   0.46   0.37        0.28   0.45   0.59
Total Income                  2.58   2.96   3.15       1.75   3.42   3.83
Expenditure
Interest on borrowings              0.07   0.09   0.12        0.07   0.15   0.16
Administrative expenses
Personnel                         1.64   2.01   1.64        0.79   1.66   2.02
Depreciation                      0.10   0.16   0.21        0.14   0.30   0.35
Others                            0.46   0.52   0.59        0.36   0.71   0.76
Subtotal                      2.20   2.69   2.44       1.29   2.67   3.13
Provision & allowances
Bad & doubtful debts              -      -       0.18       -      -       -
Others                            0.09   0.01   0.06        -      -       -
Contingency reserve                 0.17   0.20   0.16        0.29   0.30   0.26
Total Expenditure             2.53   2.99   2.96       1.65   3.12   3.55
Net Profit (Loss)                     0.05  (0.03)  0.20        0.10   0.30   0.28
/a Provisional.
/b Provisional and unaudited.



- 35 -                                       ANNEX 3
Table 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Papua New Guinea Development Bank
Balance Sheets: Mid-1974 to End-1979
(in K millions)
Year to June 30         Year to December 31
1975   1976   1977        1977   1978   1979
(1/2 yr)   /a      /b
Assets
Current
Cash & deposits                    1.64   2.01   1.64        0.79   1.66   2.02
Bills receivable                   0.15   0.42   0.53        0.54   0.64   0.69
Subtotal                    3.67   4.97   4.97        3.59   1.64   3.72
Investments
Government bonds                  -       2.00   2.00        2.00   1.50   1.00
Shares & debentures               3.24   0.61   0.84         0.84   0.82   0.95
Others                             0.14   0.04         -         -          -
Subtotal                    3.38   2.65   2.84        2.34   2.32   1.95
Term loans
Hire purchase                      3.14   2.26   2.08        2.39   2.48   2.07
Equipment financing               2.25   2.48   2.24         2.52   3.52   3.04
Agricultural up to K 10,000       2.95   3.35   3.38         3.60   4.33   4.67
Agricultural above K 10,000       2.16   2.28   2.65         2.94   3.71   4.26
Oil palm                           1.06   1.09   0.83        0.77   1.23   1.89
Commercial                         4.88   6.06   7.88        8.88   9.24   9.46
Industrial                        3.44   3.39   3.65         3.25   3.11   2.63
Milk                               -      -       0.33       0.86   1.16   0.82
Subtotal                   19.85  20.91  23.04       25.21  25.80  28.92
Less: Provisions for bad &
doubtful loans            (0.62) (0.65) (0.81)    (0.92) (1.38) (1.41)
Net term loans            19.21  20.26  22.23       24.29  27.41  27.51
NLB and ESCS loans                 4.06   3.53   3.29        3.19   2.77   2.26
Less:  Provisions for same       (4.28) (3.61) (3.29)    (3.19) (2.77) (2.26)
Net NLB & ESCS            (0.22)  0.09          -        -          -
Net Term Loans            19.02  20.17  22.23       24.29  27.41  27.51
Net Fixed Assets                  2.80   2.92   3.06         3.11   3.26   3.64
Other Assets                      0.59   0.25   0.30         0.32   0.30   0.09
Total Assets               29.45  31.05  33.40       34.14  34.93  36.90
a  Provisional.
/b Provisional and unaudited.



-36 -                                    ANNEX 3
Table 2
Balance Sheets: Mid-1974 to End-1979
(in K millions)
Year to June 30        Year to December 31
1975   1976   1977        1977   1978   1979
(1/2 yr)   /a      /b
Liabilities
Current
Bills payable                     0.64   0.64   0.87        0.92   1.28   1.35
Others                            0.09   0.10   0.01        0.20   0.19   0.25
Subtotal                    0.73   0.74   0.87        1.12   1.47   1.60
Long Term
IDA                               2.74   3.38   3.76        3.97   4.03   5.07
ADB                               0.80   1.60   2.68         2.55   2.63   2.93
Subtotal                    3.54   4.98   6.44        6.52   6.66   8.00
Provisions & Reserves
Staff                             0.31   0.17   0.19        0.22   0.13   0.14
Contingencies reserve             0.36   0.41   0.55        0.72   0.55   0.55
Subtotal                    0.67   0.58   0.74        0.94   0.68   1.69
Total Liabilities           4.94   6.30   8.06        8.58   8.81  10.29
Equity
Paid-up capital                    25.44  25.71  26.12       26.24  26.49  26.70
Accumulated losses                  (0.93) (0.96) (0.78)    (0.68) (0.37) (0.09)
Total Equity               24.51  24.75  25.34       25.56  26.12  26.61
Liabilities and Equity                29.45  31.05  33.40       34.14  34.93  36.90
/a Provisional.
/b Provisional and unaudited.



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Papua New Guinea Development Bank
Cash Flow Projection (Without Project), 1980-84
(in K millions)
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Approvals                                   16.5    18.0    20.3    23.0    26.0
Di sbursements                              15.0    16.4    18.5    20.9    23.7
Loans Outstanding
Opening balance                          28.7    30.9    33.0    36.4    39.7
Advances                                 15.0    16.4    18.5    20.9    23.7
Repayments                               12.8    14.3    15.1    17.6    19.8
Closing balance                          30.9    33.0    36.4    39.7    43.6
Annual increase in Approvals (%)               2      11       13       13      13
Income
Average loan portfolio                  29.80   32.00   34.70   38.10   41.70
Interest earned                          3.22    3.56    4.03    4.49    5.04
Other income                             0.70    0.65    0.65    0.55    0.45
3.92    4.21    4.68    5.04    5.49
Expenditure
Interest on borrowings                   0.34    0.55    0.67    0.75    0.99
Other expenditure                        3.21    3.64    3.91    3.90    4.33
3.55    4.19    4.58    4.65    5.32
Net Income                                 0.37    0.02    0.10    0.49    0.17
Cash Flow
Sources
Cash in bank                           0.52    3.52    3.59    0.23    -
Interest on loans                      3.21    3.56    4.03    4.49    5.04
Loans via Government                   6.07    2.69    -         1.56/a  4.33/a
Others                                 1.29    1.04    1.54    2.56    0.72
11.09   10.81    9.16    8.84   10.09
Uses
Advances less repayments               2.20    2.10    3.40    3.30    3.90
Interest on borrowings                 0.34    0.55    0.67    0.75    0.99
Others                                 5.03    4.57    4.86    4.79    5.20
7.57    7.22    8.93    8.84   10.09
Surplus cash forwarded                 3.52    3.59    0.23    -         -
/a Interest at 10% assumed.



- 38 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                         ANNEX 5
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Investments
(K million)
Calendar years                 Of which
1980      1981     1982       1983   Total  foreign exchange
A. Field Development
(a) Crops: Loanable funds
Rubber                              0.1       0.8       0.9        0.4     2.2    1.0
Coffee                              0.9       1.8       2.6        1.1     6.4    2.2
Cocoa                               0.1       0.6       0.6        0.3     1.6    0.3
Oil Palms                           0.2       0.5       0.2        -       0.9    0.1
Processing facilities               0.1       0.1       0.2        0.1     0.5    0.4
Subtotal                          1.4       3.8      4.5         1.9    11.6    4.0
Beneficiaries contri. (10%)         0.1       0.4       0.5        0.2     1.2    -
Total                             1.5       4.2      5.0         2.1    12.8    4.0
(b) Livestock: Loanable funds
Poultry                             0.4       0.4       0.4       0.2      1.4    0.8
Piggeries                           0.1       0.1       0.2        0.1     0.5    0.2
Subtotal                          0.5       0.5      0.6        0.3      1.9    1.0
Beneficiaries contri. (20%)         0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1     0.4    -
Total                             0.6       0.6      0.7        0.4      2.3    1.0
Total Credit Component            2.1       4.8      5.7        2.5    15.1    5.0
B. Support Services Component
(a)  Hybrid coconuts                      0.2       0.8       0.6        0.2      1.8    0.8
(b)  Cocoa program (East New Britain)  -            0.1       0.1        0.1      0.3    0.1
(c)  Crop development teams               -         0.5       0.1        0.1      0.2    0.1
(d)  NPMA capital contribution            -         0.2       0.2        0.1      0.5    0.3
(e)  Consultants                          -         0.15      0.05       -        0.2    0.2
(f)  Studies                              -         0.1       0.1        0.1      0.3    0.3
Subtotal                          0.2       1.4      1.2        0.6      3.4    1.8
Contingencies: Physical & Price    -            0.1       0.2        0.2     0.5    0.3
Total Supporting Services Comp.    0.2          1.5       1.4        0.8      3.9    2.1
Total Project Costs                   2.3       6.3       7.1        3.3    19.0    7.1



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project's Financial Impact on PNGDB
(K million)
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Uses of Funds
Administration:
Training                              0.1      -      -     -   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
General                                 -   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4
-For field development                   1.9   4.3   5.1   2.3   1.7   1.1   0.5          -      -      -     -
Repayment of government loan /a            -   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6
Total                              2.0   4.6   5.6   3.0   2.7   2.2   1.6   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1
Sources of Funds
PNGDB's own resources                   1.8   0.3   1.4   0.3
Bank/IDA                                 -    4.1   3.4   1.5
Government Development Cost Subsidy  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
Subtotal                            1.9   4.5   4.9   1.9
Subloan repayments                        -   0.1   0.6   1.0   1.6   2.1   2.7   3.0   3.2   3.5   3.6
Government Interest Subsidy                -     -   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
Total                               1.9   4.6   5.6   3.0   1.7   2.2   2.8   3.1   3.3   3.6   3.7
Net cash flow                              -     -      -     -  (1.0)          1.2   2.0   2.2   2.5   2.6
/a  Government would onlend the Bank/IDA loan to PNGDB (US$12.6 million) at 3% Interest,
repayable in 22 years including 5 years of grace for principal.



L-I,%tC Coat. *ad &0.A.tc-
Y-                  2         3        4        5        ..       7       8         9          10        I I9      I2 I       3        I 4       I4       1J6        I7 I       I         19        Ito       11 a                  i2      26-74      26        27       2       93
8..o99,a   -         -         -     3133~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I      807   1.905  2.490    2. 145    k.784    1.647    1.425    1,422    1.47  l ,25,   9..0's    9.425    1,64t5    9, .4 95 .624     .2          49        90        91         4                         
7,94Is      664       6.4      637      664S     120      177      I77       177       177       y774       74        74        7 7777775                      77        77        774       776       5,72-      $ I7      27       47                                  
74,t  b ...aI ,o   -2,141    -664      -646    -314       9642   1,184   1.711     1.3?0    1.010         640       620       620o      620       1.1       hill      ISO       6477       9.4       649       640        1?8       I  378    370       378                        
i- Co97 fM-6. 
lon .tII Oto                 -                  2:2III7  3.107   3, 878   4.623   6.64s3    4.653    4.64 6S  .643    6,652    9.643    4.014   4.64                 6 .6 59    4.6S3    ,..43     46.649    4.651    9,424%    9424         9.5       1, .42    2.820   2.82  .20          2.7
CcItoo.            2, 157    1.01I    9.090     1 1.21   :   1,21    1.163   9.242I   1.669    9.4669    9.660    9.66       9,69    9.049    .10911    9.49    1.6019    I:I.           1.469Ill     9.4 49 9.9            9449    9.449    9.449     9.669    9.669   9.460   9.4          .
6,9  60 ..i1t.  -2.157   -1.014   -9,094   9.06            a.8       Is71    3,9     .206    3206    3206          .204    3,06         .206    3.00       3.4         1.04   29.24    3. '9         .04    3704    -,071         2.116    2.9976    2.076    9.32 I       .79 1.79 9.
COOi   36. 2
C.  Of9I F.7.. I Ic.
-         -         -     396      649   1.147   1. 24      1. 240    9.970    1.1I611    I.11I  1. ..10    I..04 O         9         960       931-      V6          1.7     979       840        8to01               0~        J90                                 
CIlall.        4~~~~~~~~26  189     30      2 76     2406    266       2702      276       276       I27       273       272       279        29         13       27        79,9                709        208       96        16         26        9726-                -        -  
9161 b.ll.-0I1,  -~~~526  -99     -328      I22      396      bo0     968       966       896        086       837       80841     777       772        747       790 2    6999~       I.       669       632       0.96O4'    11 686    9.86      68           -        -
ERA    37.4
a. oil I.9.4 6_.
OtOollIa       -        ~~         ~~~~~~~~-  -  792   1.792   2, 304   2.4ill   2,480    2.400  .2        .40      230       220      .            . 2.400101          .0419     4719    l860    9.890n   9.640    9.640    9.60               .60                    -
I.42        178       23       409Iti1  697      570      4l3       48        20         8         0        289       48  .       73       4719'     460       471 4 44             663      4660      -24.        66        .6       46-                   -                 -
_41p:,9,    -.2      -978      -23  2     11   9.09      I.'l996l.90                  9.9         I'l,    I.7l6    9.69        .693    9.71    1. 6"1    9. 632    9419    4.4I1.44~1  q 1.997      19.969     9.42996     9. M00     9.9.    9.0- 
E.  594bb08 2 h.
8n.,~~~~~~9lta  -  -     -       -        -        -     334~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D  839    9.93    7.946    9.624    9.809)    9.9091   2.090    2.094~   2.090o   2997l1    !."11  2.09      2.0901    9.6,74    9.46,7    9.G25    9..           .310   1.64"  9.3109   1.340
La.259              2546        13       4 7      33      33      604       669       464       A7        62        02     72       4     9I 2     472       67        67,  2    '.'       47      2       477  62        67    92,4_                    677      672      672       472
940   ... tit.   -259      -246        -33     -67      -33      -33    -270        376       7 29      902    9.983    9.3317    1.6 71    9,'mI9 93.439     9. S38    9.Sla    I." 98    9 . 40R          9. 9t     9.20 Idl   .203       't" I, 1  .203,       "8       B"9      94       8
Ek   -2 .I
I a9     9642               7   J939     340      296     526      249       268       009       63        4939       209       209       .09       540         9       4419       .19)       49       2999      A9         499It     1 I94     689       466       66       902?     667
90   o109.-1.642     -739      -317    -00    -296    -426l    702           649    9.I97      9.092    9.9316   I7,296    2.46%    2.91.26    266 'A        .649     2.64o      W..4      2.624    2.646S     2. I2292,2129    7229 !        2. 29    I4.69      9  .613   9.9      .
1.00 - 210.0
71Nfo,RK0902C. 194L0199GS4Kl..9'OOO)
A. ofI., 23 h.
8.,.ollta  -         -         -       26~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It  66  67  92      92        92        9    92        92  91           2        9!        .   9.'             92        9'         92        92       .7          7 14                76I4 1     44       SS       SS       SS
0~~~~,I,9l9t  -     -         - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 29  60  73      90         061       7I        64,       691       69        69        69        69         6          It        I        69         69        49        49         49        49        22        Zs      22       24
52        lo        29        7       3        6       3          7        3          7         2          7        9          7        2          2         2          9        2 29                 1         97         I97       a5        96        6       96       96
N       b-14,1I,  -23      -12        -29      -916       2      47       44         59        45         2        9          7        37        0          ?         4 42  42                       ?         4         92        9!         i2        9!         9        9             
1.06 - 19.2
0,',,c 9792  -  7972     9919     299      2~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~19  29,9  229  299   299       229       299       2991      2191        79l      29'       29        .9,        '99      2994       299       299       I9         293        9           -        -        -  
'1421l1             12        927      16       439      25       931       93         3 110              936      746       936       91.         31                 I h, 91   III       9I.        I6        I9         9.       7.          9                         
Il   290         6h        67       71      at       9         I         9        0          6         3        0           3 999                        09gj7                2I        99          I        h)        Al        I1        8                                  
7.699I 24.9t
I-919,        1 91   91. I11   3.064   S.09 a   .9I 9   11.467    ,111 I307  9. I'll   99.94     299       '.24 9,I4l    .,4            I-.2        .        244'9    94249         .792    4,1.4.  1.172 92.9,949.420 91l,9.    .464   06944    ,2342
.7.   ,,.l.   -7407   -2.46    -2.8119'-2.647       -665   7.94 426           616        763       419      944        907       ',07      49          ,9,     '.17      449        ' .'       , 1   9.499I    .69I          9.79..   991.014      Ol,2 I    .4       .6        .0



PAIPUA NRW CIilNI A
SECOND ACRICCULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Rates of Return
----------------------------------- Financial ------------------------------------                            Fconomic /d ----------
Base case /a                              FRR                 FamiIy income                        lBase case
FRR       Switching values Z /b            Famtly         Witthout    Wthout       l1ith          ER         Switching values % /b
Labor    All                    labor valued    family       project   project /c                 labor    All
costs   costs    Benefits          at MRW         labor         -------    - ------               costs   costs    Benefits
Smaliholdings
Coffee
5 ha block                  27.4     +62.9   +56.6   -36.1              16.6           60.1        1,200       2,380  (8)  36.2    +1t6.5  tl(13.7         -50.9
Cocoa
5 ha block                  17.4     +34.0   +24.6   -19.8              10.7           43.6        1,000       1,450  (9)  15.2    +-16.6    +11.6         -10.5
Rubber
2 ha village block          28.2   +111.7   +97.6   -49.4               21.3           82.7        1 ,00       2,660 (14)  32.1    +16(1.0  +137.7         -57.9
4 ha settlement block    19.8   +174.7   +73.0   -42.4                  18.1           23.6                    4,409 (16)  20.8   +229.3   +89.6           -47.3
I-.
oil Palm
2 ha village block          30.8      143.1   +90.2   -47.4             21.9           57.9                    1,45(0  (8)  37.4    4221.6  +135.5         -57.5
4 ha settlement block   24.6   +183.5   +65.2   -39.5                   21.9           30.3                    2,660 (11 )  28.8   +298.0   +98.2           -49.6
Intermediate Holdings le
Coffee
20 hla block                 28.6   +279.2   +52.8   -31.5                                                                    '15.3   f 60.()   +76.9        -43.5
Cocoa
50 ha block                  15.0     +43.1    +13.4   -11.8                                                                   15.3    i*3.0    l13.9        -12.2
150 sow u"it                 22.6   +212.0   +18.2   -15.4                                                                    :25.9   f188.9    +24.1        -19.4
Total Pro2ject           26.1   +214.3   +59.5   -37.3                                                                    30.7    +378.1    +76.2       -43.3
/a  Family labor valued at K 1.61/md which Is 70% of Minimum Rural Wage (NRN) of V 2.30/1md4.
/h  Switching value indicates the % change that would need to take place  in either costs or benefits for the FVi* or ERP to drop to 12Z.
Ic  At ftull development and after loans repaid; figurebj in parenthesis  Indicautes year when this income level Is reachedU .
/d  (1) Labor shadow priced at K 1.38/md (60% of MRW); (2) Usirig SCF = 0.96; (3) Pricing output at exporL/import  viriLy pries.
Ic  All labor valued at K 2.30/md In estimating FRK.
mOg



- 4  -                              ANNEX 8
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A. Information Dealing with the Sector and Subsector
Al. Project Preparation Report
B. Information Related to Institutions
Bl. Consultant's Report on PNGDB
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl. Coffee
C2. Cocoa
C3. Rubber
C4. Oil Palms
C5. Hybrid Coconuts
C6. Project's Cash Flow on Participating Farmers



'   1>           "'}   1         ~I RI ANJAYA               O2A )
0   |  1 '                   W   <                                      032      rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
   X   ,   >                t                                   5          D   8 Q~~~~
t  t   _   {<>                  4       g      t    r                  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
_  | \ . u c,101100  Cc< S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
0 /,  g |,n   >    f         b                      r    o s    * g       m n>
Ap,~~~~



I



IBRD  15009
1V                                                                       I7                                                           146  1500                   1654                                                                APRIL 1980
sS,"   "an,pH2tlPreE5                                                                                                                                                                    PAPUA   NEW   GUINEA
0 >          P*PGA IEIE GUINEA                                                           I,                                                                SECOND  AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
~~~~~       dl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRIBUTION  OF CASH CROP AREAS AND
!~a/As or.a/f ' .r.'l  5, "'  '''                  _ k                                                                                                                           PNGDB          FIELD   OFFICES
\:  g-   '  1,                                                                                                                                        _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COCONUTS
- n,bETOALIA G                                                                                                                                                                                     COFFEE
'|  ....    Ne>                                                           E .MANUS                                                                                                             COCOA
_n                                                                                                                                                                              __ _'_' '-- '  OIL PALM
-5~ V00IE00 i420                                                                -               *                              ',       i)    } R :r                                                  E ;  PYRETHRUM
gy?nlmo -_ \ _ \ a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TEA
NEW IRELANUD
i EETIUEP'L 'Ue ,-  'i                                                                                                          "                                                                  BRANCH  OFFICE
WESTlSEPI< !   g   1  @k                                                      6  I03 1 S  1\>4; 4 R  '  :    i ,- ,                    u                       *smatandi                    a      SUB BRANCH OFFICE
4.                        R~~~~~ERPRESENTATIVS OFFICE
40  I  -  UMSEEUE   SEPE                                      _                                                       01000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
_40 1 ,'--Y ___ 5 1, EAST  SEP!K,                                                                                                                                                 '  [ * ;5 ---r  -   - - -   PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES  4
<  -   '- -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
EFEGA                      0EA AAa
IlI  \,EES                                                                                                                                                      - -I\5 d_-t   MDh         
WEST N W                       EAST EW BRITA T
<  4            ( ~~-          SOUTHERN 0                                                          S  --                      s'ISOGltnL                                                                                    9/
fl   L  HIGHLANDS    _,      S HIGHLANDS
5A1          L-                                                              L
S     MOROSE
I'  S                                                                                                                                                                            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------              
GULF                                                                                           ~1
S   WESTERN                   -                                                                                                                                                                        SOLOMON I SLANDS
40S I                                    EWn             >,,sKerosn&               -     sE,     W,.s 
-!  ,                                                                                                 NORTHERN             ;
I                                            N-                                                                               /'9ss %f'  - 
-                        I                         ~~~~~~~~~~~PORT MORESR n1 
\                        v                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CFtTRAL  -, x    -;      
MILNE BAY
100                   2,00                                           jhnn OIh.P 05* 0-S1 pV-d 00 ,0.h
I                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WoNd Bak.Fff ANnOlI
MILES                                                                 I r    .p        - t nA   OISA0SCNS 
/'                            NE6             -'IOX                                                                                           Ib4 j90             E.nnoaono8u0d80 20d.
I K     IOMSTRB                               -I,E 001 y 00EV non,E.nn-fh.
USTPALIA                                                                           Ki LOMETE Rs                                                              W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fd ft-k -d,I,  rY~~~~~~~WoE Bnkad naW,a.. o
AU12          ALA'>1460                                                                                                                    50                                                        154'              nnNnYro,0                      2



