Document of
The World Bank                      FILE  OtiPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2854-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 4, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kina
US$1.00   =   K 0.67
K 1.00    =   US$1.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)        =  2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (MT)      =  2,200 lbs
1 hectare (ha)         =  2.471 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS
DPI    =  Department of Primary Industry
NPMA   =  National Plantation Management Agency
PMTP   =  Plantation Management Training Program
PNGDB  =  Papua New Guinea Development Bank
SC     =  Project Steering Committee
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Papua New Guinea
Beneficiary:      Papua New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB)
Amount:           SDR 12.3 million (US$15.0 million)
Terms:            Standard
Relending         US$12.6 million of the credit amount of US$15.0 million
Terms:          would be relent to PNGDB at a maximum 3% interest rate for
a period of 22 years with 5 years of grace. PNGDB would
onlend US$12.6 million to its subborrowers at a minimum
interest rate of 9% (5% in disadvantaged districts) with
variable repayment terms depending on the activities being
financed.
Project
Description:   The project would finance over a period of three years a
share of PNGDB's planned agricultural lending and also
support the expansion of related agricultural services. The
project has two principal components: (a) field development
of coffee, cocoa, oil palms and rubber and piggery and
poultry enterprises through sub-loans made by PNGDB; and
(b) expansion of hybrid coconut planting materials supplies,
and of other support services to agriculture, such as crop
development teams, consultants and studies. Planned field
development is made on the most promising investments based
on current investor familiarity and interest, available
management, and favorable marketing prospects. To encourage
new development the Government would contribute up to
K 3,000/subproject towards the development costs. During
implementation, it is proposed that lending for other crops
also be included if it is established to the satisfaction of
PNGDB and Government that such lending is justified. The
proposed project is expected to bring about technological,
managerial and institution building benefits to the country.
It should also improve the standard of living of beneficiary
farmers, raise productivity, increase production and exports
and promote import substitution in the most suitable
agricultural areas. A feature of the project is the
introduction of sound professional management at the farm
and livestock enterprise level. PNGDB's competence as a
credit channel is well proven and additional support
services should help improve investments and incomes. The
main risks are those associated with external factors,
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
such as output prices. However, flexibility in the use
of funds has been incorporated to allow for timely
adaptations in response to changing circumstances.
Estimated                                           Local  Foreign  Total
Costs:                                            ------ (US$ M)
I. Field Development
Coffee                     7.2     3.3      10.5
Rubber                     2.1      1.5      3.6
Cocoa                      2.2     0.5       2.7
Oil palms                  1.3     0.2       1.5
Crop processing            0.3     0.6       0.9
Piggeries/poultry          2.0      1.5      3.5
Subtotal                15.1     7.6      22.7
II. Support Services
Hybrid coconuts            1.5     1.2       2.7
NPMA buildings             0.3      0.4      0.7
Cocoa New Britain          0.3      0.2      0.5
Crop development teams   0.3        0.2      0.5
Consultants                  -      0.3      0.3
Studies                      -     0.4       0.4
Subtotal                 2.4     2.7       5.1
Total Baseline Costs    17.5    10.3        27.8
Contingencies: (applicable
to Support Services)
physical  0.1      0.2       0.3
price     0.2      0.3       0.5
Total Project Costs       17.8    10.8      28.6
Financing Plan:
IDA                               4.2    10.8       15.0
Government                        4.1        -       4.1/a
PNGDB                             7.2        -       7.2
Subborrowers                      2.3        -       2.3
Total                         17.8    10.8      28.6/b
/a Of this US$0.6 million is the estimated Government's contribution for
development cost of new subprojects financed under this project.
/b Three per cent of these would be to pay for taxes and duties.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                IDA FY:   1982   1983   1984
-- (US$ million) --
Annual                 6.4    5.6    3.0
Cumulative             6.4   12.0   15.0
Rate of Return:  30%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         Report No. 3043-PNG, dated April 29, 1981.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea for a second
Agricultural Credit Project for the equivalent of SDR 12.3 million (US$15.0
million), on standard IDA terms. The Government would relend US$12.6 million
of the proceeds of the credit amount to PNGDB at a maximum 3% interest rate
for a period of 22 years, with 5 years of grace. PNGDB would onlend the
US$12.6 million to its subborrowers at a minimum interest rate of 9% (5% in
disadvantaged districts) with variable repayment terms depending on the
activities being financed. The US$2.4 million balance of the Credit would be
used to finance support services.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report, "Papua New Guinea:  Economic Situation and
Prospects" (Report No. 2157-PNG), was distributed to the Executive Directors
in December 1978. An economic mission visited PNG in February/March 1981;
the following discussion of the economy of PNG is based on this work. Details
of recent economic data can be found in Annex I.
Structure of the Economy
3.         Papua New Guinea is a land of rugged and sometimes impenetrable
mountains, rich valleys and coastal plains, and numerous widely scattered
islands. It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral
resources, and forestry and fishery resources of good commercial potential.
The capital city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 134,000, is an
enclave, with no road links to other parts of the country, and is the largest
urban settlement in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society. The most
striking feature of PNG's economy is the dualism reflected in the relatively
small employment in the modern monetary sector and the large proportion of the
population engaged in the traditional agricultural sector. The modern sector
is dominated by the Bougainville copper mine and by the nonnational community
which was previously part of the Australian administration and which still
contributes significantly to both the public administration and the private
sector. Mining contributes about 15% of GDP, and the government sector and a
variety of small manufacturing and service establishments contribute about
half of GDP. Agriculture, forestry, and fishery, which employ about 85% of
the labor force, provide the remaining 40% of GDP, with about 40% of the
sectoral output coming from subsistence agriculture.



- 2 -
4.         Per capita GNP in 1979 was US$650, but this average includes
that of nonnationals, who are less than 1% of the population, but whose
incomes average roughly 20 times those of nationals. When only nationals
are considered, economic dualism in PNG is not as significant an issue as
encountered in other countries with a similar economic structure. The
average salary of national civil servants who make up the bulk of the modern
sector for nationals is only about five times the estimated income of a
subsistence household. While this difference does indicate the presence of
inequalities, they are less extreme than, for example, in many African
countries. The Government's development objectives call for a further
reduction in disparities. At the same time, the Government has developed
policies to minimize the impact of dualism in specific areas. For example,
the renegotiation of the agreement with Bougainville Copper Ltd., ensured
that the Government would get the bulk of profits over a certain level.
Since the remainder of the profits accruing to the company and much of the
expenditure incurred in the operations of the mine are paid overseas, they
have little impact on local incomes.
5.         PNG faced a critical period before and immediately following
independence when, for three consecutive years (FY75-77), the economy failed
to grow significantly. This resulted from the international recession as
much as from conditions in PNG, but it compounded the difficulties faced by
an emerging nation. In 1978 and 1979, however, GDP growth averaged over
5% p.a. in real terms, with the largest increases apparently occurring in
construction, manufacturing, and services. When the Ok Tedi copper and gold
mine begins production (in 1984), growth rates of GDP are likely to reach
even higher levels, but there is still a need to improve economic perform-
ance, particularly in the agricultural sector, which has lagged behind the
rest of the economy.
6.         The large fluctuations in the growth of PNG's economy result partly
from its vulnerability to international economic conditions. Imports are
high, and international inflation is quickly passed on. Exports are
dominated by four commodities - copper concentrate, coffee, cocoa, and copra -
which contribute about 85% of total export earnings. Price fluctuations
can thus have a severe impact on the economy. In addition, PNG runs a
substantial structural deficit on its current account, the counterpart of
the large budgetary grant from Australia, equivalent to about one-third of
exports.
7.         The Government has taken a number of steps to reduce the impact of
variations in the international economy. A Mineral Resources Stabilization
Fund smooths the impact of fluctuating copper prices on the budget, and



stabilization funds for coffee, cocoa, and copra are designed to reduce the
oscillations in incomes of producers, thereby also dampening price-induced
supply responses and contributing to the stability of government revenue. To
date the management of these funds has been very disciplined and has reduced
the fluctuations in government spending that would otherwise have occurred. A
three-year wage agreement limited the rise of both public and private sector
wages to that of the consumer price index, thus ending the sharp upward spiral
of real wages that occurred during 1972-75, and this principle has since been
extended for another three years, with a maximum allowed increase of 11.75%.
The hard currency policy followed by the Government has helped to cut down
inflation to an average of 8% p.a. in the last three years, compared to an
average of more than 12% in earlier years. In the area of foreign aid, the
Government has just negotiated a second multi-year agreement with Australia,
the major donor, which guarantees a steady, though declining, flow of aid
for five more years. These agreements have helped the Government to proceed
in an orderly manner with its development planning.
Development Issues
8.        The major issues which will affect the Government's ability to
promote economic development are the formulation of a national development
strategy and planning mechanism, the decentralization of government activi-
ties, and the ability to achieve self-reliance, both in staffing and in
public financing. In the immediate post-independence period a concerted
effort has been undertaken to define a set of economic and social policies and
to establish the means by which decisions in allocating government resources
will be taken in a disciplined and consistent manner. More weight has been
given to developing a viable economic strategy and a decision making process
for the use of government resources than to the preparation of a comprehensive
development plan. Three major steps have been taken in PNG in the last three
years: (i) a national development strategy has been defined; (ii) a set of
sectoral programs and strategic objectives/criteria has been identified to
provide the basis for resource allocations; and (iii) a process for evaluating
new investment proposals based upon (ii) has been established.
9.        The national development strategy places a high priority on
improving the quality of life of the rural population. Its thrust focuses on
rural development, emphasizing the less developed areas of the country. It
includes the development of a few large natural resource projects aimed at
reducing the present very heavy reliance on aid and leading towards economic
self-reliance. The first objective recognizes not only the agricultural
potential of the country, but also the fact that the agricultural sector will
be for quite a few generations the main source of income generation and
employment. The second objective, while not directly benefitting the vast



- 4 -
majority of the population, is intended to provide a resource base, thus
allowing the implementation of development programs. The implementation of
the second objective clearly entails the import of foreign capital and
expertise. PNG has developed a policy of encouraging private investment for
the exploitation of the country-s resources, while attempting to minimize
its own investment in these areas and to maximize the revenues it would
obtain from such developments.
10.       To carry out its development strategy, the Government established
the annual National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP), a rolling four-year plan
for the public sector which focuses political decision-making on the relative
size of the allocations to each program or objective and therefore on the
tradeoffs between them. Government departments are then assigned portions of
each category to be achieved through specific projects. While the basic aims
of the NPEP are to link the planning process with overall macro-economic
policy and to direct public spending to the activities that have the highest
national priority, its impact is limited by its coverage of new projects only.
The first NPEP accounted for only 4% of the 1978 expenditures (K 20 million),
but future plans will cover increasing portions of the budget as government
revenues grow, ongoing projects are completed and a continuing review of
existing expenditures leads either to their elimination or their reformulation
and inclusion in the NPEP. In the 1980 budget, the NPEP encompassed over
one-fifth of total expenditures. Implementation of NPEP projects has been
delayed by lack of staff and experience, but the record is gradually improv-
ing.
11.       Implementation of the NPEP is also affected by the decentralization
process now taking place, since greater provincial control over spending will
reduce the Central Government's ability to pursue its priorities, while
inadequate staffing will interfere with the ability of the provinces to follow
their own plans. PNG's topography has made it a country of scattered tribes,
with no great sense of national unity, and a degree of political decentrali-
zation was a necessary response to secessionist pressures. Provincial
governments are gradually assuming regulatory and financial control in some
areas and will share power with the Central Government in others. Provincial
governments are financed through Central Government conditional and uncondi-
tional grants, Central Government refunds of certain revenues, and their own
taxation measures. Unconditional grants, which allow provinces to spend
according to their own priorities, are by far the most important source of
finance; but while in the 1980 budget they comprised over 80% of Central
Government payments to the provinces, they amounted to less than one-quarter
of total Central Government revenues. One of the most serious problems
facing provincial governments is the shortage of trained and experienced
staff, and their most urgent priority is to develop the capability for
budgeting, planning, and project identification and preparation. The
Central Government and other organizations assisting the provinces must make
a concerted effort to orient inputs toward that goal.



12.       Self-reliance in PNG involves both staff and financial resources.
The Government has made substantial progress in replacing nonnationals with
nationals, especially considering that the University of Papua New Guinea
produced its first graduates as recently as 1972. However, the country still
relies heavily on nonnationals for many necessary services. In the public
sector, localization has reached an overall level of 90%, compared to 80% in
1971, but at the higher levels of skill requiring post-secondary education,
the proportion of nationals is still only around 40%. This situation has
created a relatively high cost Government and a dependence on foreign aid to
help meet these costs. The shortage of qualified staff is reflected in the
existing vacancies in Government, and in some departments the shortages of
professionals are critical. The establishment of provincial governments is
adding to the pressures on existing staff, as the Central Government intends
to staff provincial governments with no increases in the overall size of the
public service. The Government's response to these problems is a localization
effort directed at replacing nonnationals and meeting increased manpower
requirements through recruitment of local personnel.
13.       Training courses are given by the private sector and by most
government departments and statutory autthorities to meet their own needs. A
centralized training scheme is under study. The Public Service Commission
has also launched a Senior Executive Training Program to prepare Papua New
Guineans to take over high level positions in the Government.
14.       The Government's efforts to attain financial self-reliance empha-
size modest but steady and sustainable growth in real public expenditure
accompanied by a reduction of reliance on foreign aid (particularly from
Australia). The Government has worked successfully to increase domestic
revenue which has grown from 10% of GDP in FY68 to 20% in 1979. Domestic
revenue, which accounted for only about 36% of government receipts in FY68,
supplied two-thirds of the total in 1980. Tax revenue accounts for about 70%
of domestic revenue. Over the past seven years, the Bougainville copper mine
has been a major source of domestic revenue, averaging 18% of the total and
reaching a peak of 27% in FY76, and another large gold and copper mine is
expected to start production in 1984.
15.       PNG is heavily dependent on Australian aid, which still provides
close to 40% of government revenue. IHowever, this ratio has fallen from
nearly 60% in the early 1970s, and the Government expects to continue to
reduce its reliance on the Australian grants. It will do this in part by
raising additional domestic revenue but, in addition, it will continue its
efforts to diversify the sources of foreign financial assistance, although
none of this assistance will be on terms as beneficial as the unconditional
Australian grant to the budget. Recent sources of assistance have included
New Zealand and Japan, as well as the World Bank and the Asian Development
Bank. The Government insists that all projects proposed for foreign aid be
incorporated in the National Public Expenditure Plan which is based upon an
explicit set of national development objectives. This insures that all
foreign-financed projects pass a screening process and are in accord with
Government priorities.



- 6 -
16.       Capital expenditures have grown faster than current expendi-
tures in the last two years, and the estimated share of capital expenditures
in the 1980 budget is about 20%. In order to increase investment and at the
same time raise the level of self-reliance, the Government realizes that it
must contain the growth of current expenditures, over 40% of which go toward
paying salaries and wages. The Government is attempting to limit the growth
of wages and of the public service while finding less expensive sources for
expatriate recruitment.
External Sector
17.       PNG experienced huge trade deficits prior to the introduction of
copper exports in FY73. The current account deficit was around one quarter of
GDP in the early 1970s. Imports were over 50% of GDP, whereas exports were
only about one-third as high. Since FY73, however, earnings from copper
exports have dwarfed those from other commodities, and, except for small
deficits in FY75/76 when copper and copra prices fell, the balance on current
account, which includes the large Australian grant, remained positive despite
large service payments, and reserves of foreign exchange reached ten months
worth of imports in mid-1979. Since then, however, falling commodity prices,
a decline in the copper content in the output of the Bougainville mine, and
rising imports have resulted in declining reserves. Although they are still
at a healthy level (five months worth of imports in early 1981), they can be
expected to decline further. The situation is unlikely to change signif-
icantly until the Ok Tedi mine begins to produce gold in 1984.
18.       The country is likely to require a net capital inflow of close to
US$100 million p.a. during the next few years. About one-third of this amount
will be in the form of private debt and direct investment, while the rest
represents public borrowing, of which roughly one-half is likely to come
from bilateral sources and one-half from international organizations. These
funds are in addition to the large Australian grant, equal to US$260 million
in 1980, and will have to grow in relative importance over time as the grant
falls in real terms. Total external public debt outstanding as of
December 31, 1979, amounted to US$478 million, of which US$135 million was
owed to the Bank Group. Public debt service payments in 1979 were about 4% of
exports; they are expected to rise to nearly 8% in the next few years and then
to decline slowly. Debt payments to the Bank Group are only about 13% of
total debt service payments. The debt service ratio, including net investment
income payments (which are largely self-financing), is about 15% and will rise
to a peak of 19% in 1981.
Local Cost Financing
19.       IDA's country strategy for Papua New Guinea supports the Govern-
ment's primary goal of bringing development to the less developed areas of the
country, particularly to the rural population. The types of projects which
have been identified to implement this strategy tend to be relatively small
and have relatively low foreign cost components. Therefore, it will at times
be proposed to undertake some financing of local costs.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       As of March 31, 1981, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of seven loans, eight development credits, and one loan/credit,
totalling US$169.2 million.  The first operation was a telecommunications loan
of US$7.0 million approved in 1968; the most recent, a primary education loan
of US$6.0 million and credit of US$12.0 million (SDR 9.4 million) approved in
December 1980 but not yet signed. In the early years of lending, emphasis was
on infrastructure and six of the seven loans and three of the eight credits
were for power, telecommunications, ports and highway projects. Project
implementation has been satisfactory even with the more complicated rural
development projects. The rapid turnover of expatriate staff and the
transitional problems of recruiting and training their replacements have led
to delays in project monitoring and auditing but physical implementation has
progressed approximately on schedule. As of March 31, 1981, 5 credits and 5
loans were fully disbursed and the effective loans and credits to Papua New
Guinea held by the Bank and IDA amounted to US$157.9 million. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as well as notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       In more recent years, Bank Group lending has shifted to the
agriculture and social sectors. Three of the seven outstanding loans and
credits and five of the next six planned operations are in agriculture,
rural development, and education. Furthermore, in view of the Government's
decentralization policy and the fact that the greatest constraints to
development efforts are at the provincial level, it is proposed that the
thrust of Bank Group lending be directed towards a provincial orientation
with the additional explicit objectives of institution-building and human
resource development at the provincial level.
22.       Past Bank Group operations have averaged about one per year and this
is expected to increase to two operations per year from FY81 onward. This
level of activity will allow continuous emphasis on agriculture, rural
development, and education and further support of infrastructure development
in selected areas, especially rural transportation. The Transport Sector
Review dated January 29, 1980 (Report No. 2819a-PNG) and the Agricultural
Services Review dated January 30, 1981 (Report No. 3161-PNG) will provide
direction for operations in these areas.  This project, together with the
primary education project will comprise the lending program for this fiscal
year. For FY82, the current plan is to present a rural development project
and a petroleum technical assistance project.  Project design and
implementation will continue to be constrained by the unavailability of
technical staff, local and expatriate, and the decentralization of power to
provincial government levels will probably exacerbate the problem. These
risks will be mitigated, to the extent possible, by explicit institution
building elements such as those contained in this project, but the process is
of necessity a long-term one that will require a sustained effort and the
acceptance of more uncertainty than would be the case with the type of
projects that were initially supported by the Bank Group in PNG.



- 8 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.        About 95% of the land area is customary land with right patterns
which vary considerably within and between ethnic groups. Rights are specific
to cultivation, use of timber resources, hunting, fishing and other purposes.
In the past, land rights have been maintained by force and have changed hands
often as a result. Formidable obstacles must, therefore, be overcome to make
additional land available for organized agricultural development.
24.        Although the agricultural sector accounts for only about one third
of GDP and export earnings, it employs almost 9 out of 10 economically active
people and has the greatest relative development potential. Production for
subsistence and for the market is carried on by smallholders and casheropping
is carried out by plantations. Nationals have been acquiring the latter from
nonnationals with government support. In 1979 the main cashcrops, practically
all for export were: copra (105,000 MT); coffee (47,000 MT); cocoa (27,000
MT); palm oil (30,000 MT) and rubber (4,200 MT). The main subsistence crops
are sweet potatoes, bananas and taro. Most families keep pigs. Beef and
poultry production, on a modest scale, is being developed through commercial
units. Crop yields are generally low. While in the past production
increases were brought about by expansion of the cultivated area, there is
strong evidence that good agricultural land, reasonably accessible with
moderate to high fertility and suitable topography, will become
progressively scarce.
25.        Agricultural exports have largely stagnated in recent years.  Large
Australian Government grants have helped close the resource gap, but the
grants are being progressively reduced. This situation must be redressed
urgently through programs designed to bring about rapid increases in agricul-
tural productivity and exports (with due regard to maintenance of adequate
levels of subsistence production), based on continuous adaptation of tradi-
tional organization and practices in response to opportunities and incentives
clearly perceived by villagers.
Institutions
26.        The present government decentralization process involves the often
difficult coordination of multiple activities at the national and provincial
levels. For purposes of the proposed project, the main national entities
whose responsibilities need to be coordinated with those of the provincial
government agencies are the Papua New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB), the
Department of Primary Industry (DPI), the plantation management units and
the crop marketing agencies.
27.        PNGDB is a publicly owned corporate body established in 1967.  It
emphasizes lending to smallholders and to enterprises which have a large
impact on employment of nationals. Up to the end of 1979 PNGDB had approved a
total of 27,400 loans amounting to K 106 million (US$160 million). PNGDB is
an efficient and experienced entity, and its financial condition is sound.



- 9 -
As of December 31, 1979 PNGDB's assets amounted to K 37 million (US$55
million) and net profits, averaged K 300,000 or US$450,000 in each 1978 and
1979. A recent increase in staff turnover and in repayment overdues, as well
as poor coordination of extension services with credit delivery, are being
addressed forcefully. PNGDB now has the organization, management and
staffing to make a substantial increase in its medium and long-term lending
for agriculture.
28.       DPI is responsible for the development of agriculture, forestry,
fisheries and livestock. As a result of the decentralization of public
services DPI is presently organized at the national and the provincial level.
At the national level DPI is responsible for overall policy and planning,
operation of agricultural research stations and agricultural colleges,
provision of specialized technical support, pest and disease eradication,
quality control and implementation of large projects, such as settlement
schemes, and the hybrid coconut program. At the provincial level, DPI is
mainly responsible for agricultural extension services.
29.       The ongoing decentralization program has weakened extension
services throughtout the country. The main reasons seem to be the
resignation and termination of contracts of a large number of experienced
nonnationals and lack of suitable replacements among nationals; lack of
adequate coordination between national and provincial staff; poor leadership
and a certain degree of politicization of provincial staff; lack of
goal-oriented activities in the provinces; and largely inadequate on-the-job
training. The recently completed Agricultural Services Review has analyzed
these problems and proposed some solutions.
30.       Plantation Management.  The plantation subsector, accounting for
146,000 ha or one half of the area under coconuts and cocoa and for 3,000 ha
or most of the area under rubber was largely developed by nonnational owners/
managers and companies. However, even before independence uncertainty over
future ownership and control of expatriate-owned lands had already created
serious disincentives to investments and general upkeep of plantations. The
situation worsened when large numbers of managers left PNG as plantation
ownership was being transferred to nationals. Inadequate maintenance and lack
of management resulted in a dramatic 30% reduction between 1974-78 in the
output of cocoa, copra and rubber plantations. Recognizing the vacuum in the
plantation management field the Government has established a Plantation
Management Training Program (PMTP) which has provided training to about 300
nationals, and a National Plantation Management Agency (NPMA) which at present
ably manages 48 plantations comprising about 15% of the plantation area.
31.       Marketing Agencies.  Marketing of the main cash crops and of commer-
cial pigs and poultry is well-organized and functions properly. Statutory
industry boards exist for copra, coffee and cocoa. These boards are primarily
producer boards but include government representation. Their main functions
are to provide orderly marketing and to operate price stabilization schemes.
Rubber is exported by a group of forwarding agents. Palm oil and kernels
are exported by the respective nucleus estate companies under government
supervision. Commercial pigs and poultry are sold through well-established
marketing channels in the main population areas.



- 10 -
Development Issues and Government Strategy
32.       The basic task facing Papua New Guinea is to develop agriculture,
both in the short term to close an important resource gap and in the long term
to provide employment, adequate incomes and promote the welfare of the over-
whelming majority of the rural population, which faces serious sociological
and physical constraints. The specific issues faced by the Government are how
to: (a) use policy tools to strengthen the market economy; (b) adapt
traditional village organization and customs (including land tenure systems)
to bring about continued and balanced agricultural development; (c) ensure
effective participation in development of many dissimilar and often antago-
nistic clan groups; (d) effect a steady transfer of plantations from non-
nationals to nationals with minimum losses of productivity and production; and
(e) train, employ, motivate, organize and retain adequate numbers of young,
poorly trained, inexperienced people to provide the required support services.
33.       In the last decade, Government's strategy has emphasized develop-
ment of the poorer provinces and has paid specific attention to improved
nutrition and the social welfare of rural people. Specifically, Government
has: (a) maintained an open economy based on a strong private sector
supported by sound agricultural credit and export marketing structures, and
export crop stabilization funds; (b) enabled clans to operate agricultural
lands as legally recognized groups and helping guarantee individual rights
in clan lands to bring about long-term farm improvements; (c) decentralized
many development responsibilities down to the provincial level; (d) helped
transfer control of plantations to traditional groups of nationals by provi-
ding these with funding and management support; and (e) expanded specialized
agricultural instruction (agricultural colleges and other vocational schools)
and in-service training, and giving more attractive remuneration to some
categories of staff.
34.       The immediate limitations faced by this strategy are:  lack of
adequate incentives (due to high production and marketing costs) for increas-
ing cash crop production in many areas of the country; weakening extension
services due to the continuing decentralization process and to the difficul-
ties of replacing experienced expatriate staff; and other factors such as
shortage of medium- and long-term funds,and difficulties in coordinating the
provincial extension services with credit delivery. The above have resulted
in stagnant or declining production of some of the main cash crops and rates
of rural migration beyond the absorptive capacity of urban centers. The
Government has recently initiated steps towards alleviation of some of
these constraints. On the one hand it has undertaken, with assistance from
the Bank, a review of the agricultural support services and is planning to
strengthen these services. Complementing this initiative, it has
increased the financial incentive to farmers, particularly in disadvantaged
districts of the country, through partial subsidization of development
costs (mainly management agency fees)/l of new projects and interest rates,
/1 In view of weak extension services PNGDB generally requires its borrowers
to hire services of management companies.



- 11 -
with a view to inducing urgently needed new development and rehabilitation
in cash cropping livestock and fishery subsector (paras. 38 and 48).  Of
the 90 districts in the country, the 30% most disadvantaged have been
selected in where subprojects are eligible for subsidy. The selection of
districts is based on per capita cash crop income and other socioeconomic
indicators. The size of the total subsidy is not large and unlikely to
exceed K 250,000 per year.  A positive feature of this subsidy package is
the temporary nature of the management fee subsidy.  This arises from the
fact that management companies would be gradually replaced with the
strengthening of extension services. The proposed project also addresses
the above problems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.        The proposed project was identified in mid-1978 and was prepared
by Government with the help of consultants, and appraised in May 1980. A
staff appraisal report (No. 3043-PNG) dated April 29, 1981 is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington from November 10 to November 12, 1980,
with the Papua New Guinea delegation led by Eliakim Tobolton, First Assistant
Secretary, and were completed by telex on April 23, 1981.
Project Objectives
36.        The main objective of the project is to improve the standard of
living of about 4,000 farm families, particularly in the disadvantaged
districts of the country, by increasing productivity, production (and exports)
of tree crops and, to a lesser degree, of pigs and poultry, which together
account for the bulk of existing and foreseeable marketable agricultural
production in the country. The project would lead to substantial increases
in employment, participation of nationals in the cash economy, and transfer
of improved farming practices, including land conservation, to smallholders
and would have an impact on subsistence agriculture. Another important
objective is to lay the basis for future development of coastal areas by
substantially increasing supplies of hybrid coconut planting material.
Project Details
37.       The proposed project has two major components:  (a) lending for
field development of coffee, cocoa, oil palm and rubber, and pigs and poultry;
and (b) expansion of hybrid coconut planting materials supplies and other
support services to agriculture.



- 12 -
38.       Field Development (estimated cost: US$21.0 million).  Under the
proposed project, an estimated area of 8,000 ha will be cleared and planted
with coffee, cocoa, rubber and oil palms. This will be done in blocks
adjacent to existing plantings or in new settlement areas. The actual area
to be developed for each crop will be based on subloan demand, and PNGDB
would retain full flexibility to alter the notional areas which were used
for costing at appraisal. To encourage new development the Government
would contribute up to K 3,000/subproject to meet part of the development
costs./1 In the livestock sector it is proposed to finance only a few
commercial size piggeries and broiler units in the most suitable areas of
Lae and Port Moresby, the two most important consumption centers.
Assurances were obtained from Government that such project investments would
be completed beyond 1983 (Section 3.01(d) of Development Credit Agreement).
39.       Support Services (estimated cost: US$5.5 million).  Coconut dev-
lopment under this component of the project will consist of establishing the
basis for future large-scale plantings of higher yielding varieties by
increasing the area and number of hybrid seed gardens, planting hybrid
observation/demonstration plots in major coconut growing areas, and dis-
tributing hybrid seednuts to estates and smallholdings. Government funds
will also be made available for other agricultural support services:
(a) to NPMA mainly for staff quarters and offices; (b) to PNGDB to staff a
pilot cocoa smallholder rehabilitation program in New Britain and to hire
consultants for data processing, financial planning and evaluation; (c) to
provincial governments (as is the case already in Eastern Highlands province)
for the staffing, vehicle purchases and establishment of other facilities to
organize and initially operate crop development teams which would help with
the registration of farmers' groups and lands; and (d) to the appropriate
agencies to pay for studies which were recommended by the review of
agricultural support services.
40.      Monitoring and Evaluation.  It is essential to provide effective
project monitoring and evaluation given the paucity of data pertaining to
smallholder agriculture and the importance of the project for future devel-
opment of the country. Data would be regularly collected by management
agents and settlement authorities and relayed to PNGDB management on inputs,
including planting material, supplies, and area cleared and planted. Data
on yields, and impact of increased project-induced production on villagers'
incomes also would be gathered. This monitoring system is currently being
introduced by PNGDB and would be particularly helpful in changing project
mixes as conditions warrant. Evaluation would be carried out by consultants.
/1 The development cost subsidy of K 3,000 comprises: (a) subsidy of
K 2,400/subproject for management agency fees; and (b) K 600 for costs
of land survey, soil tests and tools.



- 13 -
Estimated Costs
41.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at about US$28.6 million, of which about 38% would represent foreign
exchange requirements and about 3% taxes and duties. Costs are based on
December 1980 prices. For the support services component, a physical
contingency of 5% and estimated price escalations amounting to 9% in 1981,
8.5% in 1982, and 7.5% in 1983/84 have been included. Together, the
contingencies would amount to US$800,000 or 15% of the total cost of the
support services.
Financing Plan
42.       The project would be financed by an IDA Credit of US$15.0 million,
which represent about 52% of total project costs of which US$11 million are
foreign costs and US$4 million local costs. Local cost financing is
required because the types of projects to be financed tend to be relatively
small and labor-intensive, and have low foreign exchange components. Such
financing would be consistent with the IDA country strategy of supporting
the Government's plans to bring cash crop development to subsistence
farmers (para. 19). The Government would contribute US$3.5 million for
support services; in addition it would provide funds to PNGDB for
implementation of the subsidy program (para. 34)./1 PNGDB would contribute
US$7.4 million, and farmer beneficiaries US$2.3 million, for field
development. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk.
Retroactive Financing
43.       Retroactive financing for up to US$1.5 million would be made
available to cover drawdowns beginning June 1, 1980, based on policies and
procedures which are considered adequate. Retroactive financing is required
because PNGDB has already incurred considerable expenditures during the past
ten months to enlarge its lending, in expectation of this project. If PNGDB
had not enlarged its lending, farmers' loan demand would have diminished as a
result of uncertainty and farm management agreements could have become
ineffective. Additionally, the hybrid coconut program would have been
delayed.
Project Management
44.       Overall policy for both field development (credit) and the support
services components of the project, as well as review of operations, inter-
agency coordination, and budget approval, would be the responsibility of a
/1  These funds would provide for:  (a) reimbursement to PNGDB for granting
subloans at lower rates (5% p.a.) in disadvantaged districts (para. 48).
Broad estimates indicate that this interest subsidy would total about
US$3.1 million (K 2.1 million) over full repayment period (22 years) of
subloans financed under the project; (b) the Government's contribution
towards meeting part of development cost of new subprojects (para. 38).
This is estimated to amount to US$0.6 million (K 0.4 million) over 3
years. PNGDB would pass on these development cost subsidies to the
management companies responsible for developing subprojects.



- 14 -
project Steering Committee (SC), chaired by the Secretary of the Department
of Finance, and including PNGDB's managing director, the Secretaries of the
Departments of Primary Industries, Lands and Commerce, the Registrar General
and relevant provincial government representatives. The establishment of
the Steering Committee and the appointment of its members would be conditions
of effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of Development Credit Agreement). Specific
responsibilities for each component would be as follows:
Field Development (Credit). PNGDB would manage the credit component.
It would act as credit channel and supervise field operations. In
this task it would be assisted by NPMA, private field managers,
settlement authorities and DPI staff until PNGDB is satisfied that
owners can manage their properties adequately; and
Support Services. Responsibilities for this component would be divided
among: (a) PNGDB, which would be responsible for administering a cocoa
rehabilitation program in New Britain and would prepare a follow-up
project; (b) PNGDB-s Board, which would prepare the terms of reference
and appoint the consultants to PNGDB; (c) DPI, which would prepare and
implement the hybrid coconut program; (d) the Finance Department which
would directly supervise the NPMA investments and the studies; and
(e) provincial governments which would manage the crop development teams
and extension services.
Both PNGDB-s managing and deputy directors terms of office expire in
October 1981. Government is cognizant of this and will take steps to ensure
PNGDB management continuity during project implementation.
45.       In accordance with previous practice, farmers or clan leaders in
existing cocoa and coffee areas, would be contacted by staff of either PNGDB,
management agencies, crop development teams or provincial extension services
and informed about the project. Those who showed definite interest would be
helped by the above staff in organizing themselves legally as business
groups and in obtaining land titles. Land titling is slow and complicated,
involving staff of the Decentralization and Land departments, as well as
provincial staff. However, it is expected that for purposes of the proposed
project the processing of individual cases would take about three months
based on previous experience at the provincial level, and with the assist-
ance of management agents who would help with group registration and titles.
Private solicitors and surveyors would assist in cases where provincial and
national government staff were unable to do the job in time.
46.       The relevant PNGDB field office, after being approached for a loan
by a business group, would ask the latter to choose a manager from a PNGDB-
approved list. The manager would subsequently prepare a farm plan, arrange
for creditworthiness analysis of the potential borrowers and subsequently
would be in charge of developing the land blocks (with the assistance of
selected farmers, PMTP trainees and extension staff) including land clearing
and preparation, maintenance, input supplies and marketing of produce.



- 15 -
Management services would be phased out over 4 to 7 years based on the
group's ability (as determined by PNGDB's branch managers) to take over
management responsibilities. The Government would subsidize part of the
management fees (up to K 2,400/subproject) while the remaining management
fees would become part of the subloan extended by PNGDB (para. 38). For
oil palm and rubber settlement areas which have families and land rights
already established and settlement authorities in place, procedures would be
limited to PNGDB's subloan approval and subsequent processing. Commercial
poultry and piggery enterprises will be relatively few in number and would
find much less difficulty in arranging land leases and adequate management;
hence no complications are expected. The above procedures have proved
satisfactory in the past.
Relending and Onlending Terms
47.        The Government would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement (SLA)
with PNGDB under which:
(a) $12.6 million of project funds would be transferred to PNGDB at
a maximum 3% interest rate repayable in 22 years including 5 years
of grace for principal. These terms are in line with expected
project generated cashflows;
(b) PNGDB would on-lend at a minimum of 9% p.a.;/1
(c) Repayment Terms would be based on the technical/financial
profile of the field investments to be made. The repayment
periods are expected to be as follows: coffee and cocoa, 12 years
repayment, 5 years grace; oil palm, 9 years repayment, 5 years
grace; rubber, 14 years repayment, 8 years grace.
(d) Free Limit of K 100,000 is proposed. Individual subloans in
excess of K 100,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval
before it is approved by PNGDB; and
(e) Subborrowers Contribution. The subborrowers would make an
average 10% equity contribution to their farm investments in
the form of cash, labor and materials.
The SLA would be agreed with IDA, and its signing would be a condition of
effectiveness.
/1 This rate is positive by comparison with projected (7.5%) long-term
inflation rates.



- 16 -
48.        In addition to the terms and conditions of on-lending in para. 47
above, eligible subborrowers in disadvantaged districts and those under-
taking new subprojects would receive subsidies in line with the Government's
subsidy program (para. 34) as follows: (a) in disadvantaged districts
subborrowers would be charged a lower interest rate amounting to 5% p.a.
The interest subsidy would only apply to first K 100,000 of the subloan, and
(b) a subsidy of up to K 3,000/subproject would be provided to cover part of
the development costs of new subprojects. PNGDB would implement this subsidy
program on behalf of the Government, for which it would receive supplementary
funds from the Government (para. 42).
Procurement
49.      For equipment and construction financed by funds relent for benefi-
ciaries' subprojects, procurement would be undertaken in accordance with local
competitive bidding practices. Government's and PNGDB's procurement proce-
dures ensure competitive bidding and are acceptable to IDA. Land clearing and
preparation, planting and upkeep (amounting to about US$17.0 million) would be
carried out by the project beneficiaries themselves or by hired labor.
Planting materials (US$2.0 million) would be acquired from existing local
sources through Government procedures used for local shopping arrangements.
The relatively small amounts of building materials required, vehicles, small
machinery, equipment and accessories (US$2.9 million) and fertilizer and
chemicals (US$1.6 million), would be supplied through agents of local and
foreign firms, which are well represented in the country, through prudent
shopping in accordance with Government's procedures which are satisfactory.
Civil works would be awarded following similar procedures. Field management
(US$2.7 million) would be contracted by participating farmers to experienced
local firms which offer these services, and which are preselected by PNGDB./l
These arrangements have proven satisfactory in the past. Approximately 27
man-months of short-term consultancies would be needed. The approximate cost
of these would be US$7,000 per man-month and would inlcude fees, international
travel, vehicles and allowances.
50.        The terms of reference for the review of data processing and
financial planning, for evaluation and for the studies would be prepared in
consultation with IDA. Assurances were obtained on these during
negotiations (Section 3.03 of Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursements
51.        Disbursements against the IDA credit would be made on the basis of
(a) 35% of the cost of civil works; (b) 35% of expenditures for vehicles and
equipment, which are to be procured locally; (c) 100% of the cost of
consultants' services; (d) 66% of subloans made by PNGDB for crops and
/1 There would be about fourteen private management companies available for
the project additional to NPMA.



- 17 -
livestock; and (e) 66% of staff salaries for crop development programs.
Disbursements against free-limit subloans and staff salaries for crop
development programs would be made on the basis of certified statements of
expenditure; supporting documentation would be retained by PNGDB for
subloans and by DPI for staff salaries, and would be made available for
review by supervision missions. All other disbursements would be made
against full documentation. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
June 30, 1984.
Accounts and Audit
52.       PNGDB has an efficient accounting and record keeping system and
its internal and external auditing are well organized. Assurances were
obtained that PNGDB and other participating agencies would keep separate
project accounts and that audited project and agency accounts will be
furnished to IDA within six months of the closing of the fiscal year
(Section 4.01 of Development Credit Agreement).
Production and Marketing
53.       Present volumes of annual production and 1990 project-induced
annual production, in parenthesis, for the above crops are (in MT): coffee
47,000 (8,000); cocoa, 27,000 (1,400); palm oil, 30,000 (5,000); and rubber
4,200 (3,500). No difficulties are foreseen in marketing the incremental
production of these crops because the existing marketing channels are well
organized, additional production will be insignificant in relation to the
world market, and more specifically because PNG imports are given
preferential treatment by Australia. Pork and broiler meat would replace
imports and would be sold locally in Lae and Port Moresby using existing
retail channels. Project-induced production would represent about 25% of
projected national production of broilers and less than 2% of pork through
1995. The percentage for pork would be about 20% of the projected supplies
in Lae and Port Moresby (the two most important consumption centers) for the
same period.
54.       The mission has assumed the following world market prices (1980
constant) for 1985-90:
1980         1985         1990
Coffee (US$/kg)                 3.62         3.04         3.33
Cocoa (US$/kg)                  3.52         2.68          1.83
Palm oil (US$/MT)             611.00       615.00       594.00
Palm kernels (US$/MT)         462.00       470.00       454.00
Rubber (US$/kg)                  1.44         1.52         1.67
Farm-gate prices are based on the above and are estimated to be about 85% of
FOB prices for coffee, cocoa, palm oil and rubber. The relatively narrow
marketing margins are due mainly to the favorable location and good road



- 18 -
network serving the project areas, as well as to narrow profit margins
resulting from the high level of competition among traders and processors
(coffee and cocoa), and reasonable management authority fees (rubber and
palm oil).
55.       Pork prices ex-abattoir are estimated to average K 2/kg and
dressed broilers should sell for K 1.70/kg or roughly at the same levels of
import prices. The general price trend is favorable, with demand in Lae and
Port Moresby projected to surpass domestic supply through 1990.
Financial Impact
56.       The typical farm models show reasonably attractive net cash flow
positions. The key to this favorable financial performance is the
professional management at relatively low cost which would be made available
to farmers. Incremental net cash family incomes per annum of between US$450
(cocoa) and US$3,200 (rubber) at maturity would represent from 145% to 360%
of incomes without the project which are based on operation of rundown
plantations, low yielding subsistence agriculture or part-time employment.
The estimated financial rates of return to participating farmers would be
from about 17% to 30%.
57.       The project's impact on PNGDB would result in a generally improved
net income and liquidity position through 1990 and beyond. The project
would also increase PNGDB's loan portfolio at an opportune time; PNGDB has
recently expanded its staffing and other facilities in the expectation of
increased lending to agriculture.
58.       Over the project's three-year period, central government would
contribute K 2.3 million to defray part of the costs of support services.
In addition its contribution towards management fees subsidy and interest
subsidy is estimated to amount to K 0.4 million (over 3 years) and
K 2.1 million (over 22 years) respectively, in nominal terms (para. 42).
These expenditures amount to K 2.8 in present value terms at 12%. These
would be fully recovered from sale of hybrid coconut seedlings, NPMA fees
and export duties.
Beneficiaries and Benefits
59.       The number of farmers who would be project beneficiaries would be
difficult to estimate with any accuracy because it is impossibile to predict
the relative importance of the different crops to be financed as this, in
turn, depends on effective demand in several large and different geographical
areas of the country. However, on the basis of likely farm sizes for each
crop, it is tentatively estimated that about 4,000 farmers would directly
benefit from the project. Another 4,000 to 5,000 families, who are small
shareholders in the central piggeries/poultry enterprises, would also benefit
from the project.



- 19 -
60.      A large majority of beneficiaries would be families with present
annual per capita incomes of $275/350 which are slightly above an absolute
per capita poverty income level in rural areas of $275. Although rural
income differentials are difficult to estimate in the absence of any kind of
reliable statistical data, it appears reasonable to assume that income
differentials generally are rather small because of the prevalent system of
clan welfare and income-redistribution and the access to land for most of the
rural population. As a result of the latter there would be a diffusion of
benefits beyond direct project participants.
61.       The estimated economic rate of return (representing an average of
various farm models used) would be: coffee - 35%, cocoa - 15%, rubber - 27%,
oil palms - 34%, piggeries and broilers - 26%. The estimated overall
economic rate of return over a 25-year period is 30%.
62.       The above estimates are based on the following assumptions:
(a) a shadow field manual wage at 60% of the prevailing K 2.30
(US$3.45) per day minimum official rural wage. This is taking
into consideration the levels of wages and value of food paid
for self-help projects which indicate a certain degree of
under-employment; and
(b) local costs adjusted by a standard conversion factor of 0.96 to
bring them to border price levels.
The most probable and relevant variables which would affect the project are
yields and output prices. Sensitivity analyses using 12% as the opportunity
cost of capital show that the justification for project investments would be
possible even with major output price declines. For example, gross bpnefits
would have to decline by about 43% before the project's IERR would be reduced
to the opportunity cost of capital. Similarly, the project would still be
viable if costs increased by 76% above present estimates. However, small-
holder cocoa is much more sensitive than the other investments. It would
take only an 11% unfavorable change in benefits to bring down the return
from 15% to 12%.
Risks
63.       The project is national in scope and supports investments in
several crops as well as livestock, and caters for a large number of
individual borrowers drawn from diverse cultural backgrounds, many of whom
are entering market-oriented production for the first time. Consequently,
the project faces some organizational risks, legal problems associated with
land ownership, difficulties in ensuring adequate labor supplies at
reasonable cost, and the possibility of crop and livestock diseases.
However, improved management, which is an important feature of the project,
should ensure cost-effective operations, deal with some of the
organizational and legal problems, and minimize any losses stemming from
diseases. Moreover, the project allows considerable flexibility in



- 20 -
financing subprojects as conditions warrant, and overall risks would
therefore be minimized.  Given the limited application of fertilizers and
chemicals, there are limited risks associated with increases in their prices,
while pig and poultry prices are expected to remain relatively stable
because the products are intended for the local markets which are expected
to be undersupplied for about a decade.
Environmental Impact
64.       The areas to be developed agriculturally are presently under old
plantings, primary or secondary forests, often in undulating or steeper
topography. The project will help reduce uncontrolled shifting cultivation
in highly erodable terrain by introducing permanent trees in a stable, long-
lasting agricultural system which will preserve favorable ecological
conditions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The Development Credit Agreement between Papua New Guinea and the
Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
66.       Special conditions of this project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 4, 1981



- 21-                                     Annex I
P,e i of 5
TABLE 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPUA NEU GUINEA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AQEAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MDST RECENT EST TE
TOTAL            461.7
AGRICULTURAL      19.5                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           IIIDDLE IDIC0M
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE  b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBFAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  180.0       350.0      650.0                1114.7                  1562.9
ENERGY COISUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       51.0       138.0     292.0                  842.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       1.9         2.4       2.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  2. 7         9.8      15.5                   39. 1                   63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        5.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2120
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                         4. 0        5.0       6.0                  376.1                    28.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     98.0        124.0     149.0                 2350.4                    81.7
POP'JLATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          39.7        42.0      42.0                   40.4                   41.4
15-64 YRS.                         57.4         55.0      54.8                   56.2                   54. 7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9         3.0       3.2                    3.4                    3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1. 7        2.3       2. 4/c                 2.4                    2.7
URBAN                              12.6        15.3       8.5                    4. 1                    4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.0         42.0      41.0                   28.7                    34.8
CRUDE DEATU RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.0        18.0      16.0                    7.9                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         2. 9      3.0                    1.9                     2.5
FAIILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WIOMEN)   ..           ..       3.0                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD ERODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          100.0       100.0     105.0                  116.9                  106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   76.0         83.0      85.0                  108.9                  107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          40.0         46.0      46.0                   60.3                   65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        22.0        20. 0     20.0                   18.8                   33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      32.0        24.0      19.0                    5.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.0         46.0      50.0                   63.0                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       106.0        . .                  52.8                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      20.0                   42.4                    65.9
URBAII                              ..           ..      30.0                   62.1                    80.4
RURAL                               ..           ..      19.0                   29.7                   44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        14.0      18.0                   52. 8                   62.3
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..                   71.1                    79.4
.RURAL                               ..         5.0        5.0                  42.4                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          14390.0/d   11630.0   11797.0                 4120.1                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSINC PERSON      2450. 0/d    2370.0    1934.0                2213. 6                 1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             170.0/d     150.0/e   218.0                  819.4                  4P0.3
UERBAN                              ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..       5.0
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NUIBER OF PERSONS PER ROOR
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..



- 22 -                                       Annex I
PaR, 2 of  5
TABLE 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOHE             MIDDLE INCCGHF
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLHENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  32.0         52.0       60.0                    98.6                      99. 7
MALE                   59.0         63.0       70.0                    99.2                     101.0
FEMALE                  7.0         39.0      49.0                    97. 7                      99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    1.0          8.0       12.0                    55.5                      34.4
MALE                    2.0         11. 0     16.0                    60. 7                     33.5
FEMIALE                 0.5          4.0        7.0                   49. 9                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  16.0            19.0       22.0                    13.7                      3P.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              35.0         33.0      31.0                    34.6                       30.5
SECONDARY                            18.0         23.0      23.0                    28.5                       14. 5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          29.4         32.0       32.0                    85. 8                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            2.0          7.0        6.4                     9.0                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..         ..                    118.9                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..         ..                    39.4                      84. 2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..           .         7. 0                     *.                      63. 3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             1. 0        ..                     4. 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        1052.0       1255.0    1466.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    41.4          41.3      41. 1                   36.8                      22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                89.0         86.0       82.0                   51.9                       37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   4.3           5.8       7.0                    21.9                      23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  54.8         52.1       50.9                    39.1                      31.5
HALE                                   61.2         58.4       57.6                    48.5                      48.9
FEMALE                                 47.7         44.9      43.6                    29.6                       14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.8          0. 9       0.9                     1.1                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      400. 0
RURAL                                  ..          ..      275.0                   192.1                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..                      ..                    474.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..          ..                  182.5                    332. 5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..            ..      10. 0
RURAL                                  ..          ..       75.0                    33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1979.
/c   Indigenous population growth rate is 2.82;  Id 1964;  /e 1966.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 23 -                                                                        Annex I
p... 3 Of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOR'
N.,..:  Although the dta are drawn from. en.r.e Ilgenerally ludged the wotarooeso   n   eIh      oeol    lob  noe   ta   heyy   se  h  inter
~att~nalvoompa~lie  hesuse ofthe lak ofetenadcddfntossdnnete usdt   ifr                                    etr e   otie  igtedaa    h   aamn   ae
dor  ed is  ns uniorm,  aut te suerhe acoutre  In   - reaing  erere P of. oneiddleao   to smother.   Thes  anerage   Ers only  ofehnemare   the- ve.lus
ofec..     totr   t   rime.awne  she, orr  end  defeere ghr loupa.il-~bdt...bt..   f   l
tub  edit  thousand   qim.)                                                           rorust tonlpr hhreeitd-  orutattonittetsh.hy meagr h5 peseinlag  pt
des,        ortsr  n   rsomceo   st   raedllo   aes                                                   eaaqsi t...Ed free    a  els hota  uis E Itleel
Agroelud   s  -_ stA Ir ofEgnolua   rste   epnnl  onpemaen ly                               i o-lat..      pe.   ur.s.e.t      oulto   diridhd hymuhe  ef prenle
d~ ~ ~~~~Pelnr pePoela ed-tFg.uhe. ad sel-Perlem les,tsi.
ISPPI  Cu       --T Id   - ,k.,pnc pl etk siersatoren    akh    rnc,et-                            ubw  amddrunaIf  divIded hy the in reepene In   rtber ofbetibd
oulatd bysg  covrion  -ethod as Wonld Bsnk Atlas  (197f-79 hasiel ; 1960,                         fniei   oyhi   e    ret   eee   n   pragg   h..E                         Ibt.sd we
1970, and  1979data.                                                                              hshlbittetit   blrter.d Plicyinsi  ar ...t- bilabpsie1rs   hac.patswy   staffe
hy bileseti- one  plsoe.lptenlhitebseetebIiehnldh   psiemiptly  tswffdl
ENEtRGY CONStloPTION PER  AIPITA - Alos   uempiro   narts   nry10.                                   geaeno   vldf    urlhstas  howevr, tdi ud   lesSeN  adl  etdilo
sod linite,pernocus, vtursigee ad Sydro.veeraegohra  els-                                 ncrmo    pemaenl  stafe   by1 a.i . phy_ia.te by a.ld eedltt assladset,
tree l   ktiegrese   f uosh  equivalen  pEr  -epita; 1960. 1970, sod 1979                   nurse, m1idnfe   cr07  lyS  offer y  tepy.tlect sonedbaIs   edi1 peside-t
ruPL-LATIuttON l AND1VTA  STATISTICS                                                                hepes          ona   rrn 1  op  aeed   pedinel ed areiyosse
Te-lfrito.Od-wrllioe    As ef Joly I; t96t, 1970, sod 1979                                     uaeto 8rheta   a   - Inel  ushrdiof ad e tosstnior diesbege
dare.                                                                                Proc hoerttsir ~~~~Rdiot-dedbh   h  mse  o   es
'irlse,uy-edf  irersoc f  toa) -Stin ef                                                                                        thtantr rtat  eputtion
d.iffrn   dfnton    fob as areas ear effeet onaparehility of dat                           .ootN
Plrudntiun Pro.diwolon                                                                            A       ' lue ehl  enniste   fa  rupo    hedioldoa14ek  este2.    blhg   eete
R     Poal p pulaion..E by ae sd sEn  td sheer cotit.o.et it,ae                               heSoeodfe Itatsroot  uorec.                        Y     -      tb.il.di
Prolcoens prametrs fo  araty rate  otmprt1s  uf three -1  .e.a .. asse                  uoreoms  ofd peron  r p ro-oe,sea.edretI                                 vrg
In  lfeeneeenyathtttloreeegwih  nutr~     erespia  roe                       hr  f  eror    enrue,  t  ul  ran   sd  url  eupedseenhIe
lenel   end  ewat    bfrepeaoyseltio sh             75Psr.    fOspra,olies                            .y..o y.oeltesgtudro                        ghterrsesm
seren   fo.Pt1 isrt   dn  aetre   aeseemigdosrit Elooee    at
fet  lttdon dign f       ottra   n  psP.latl-pleYog   erfrss be.                         coeef tlcret    rren   fdrio---ttl   rbn   n   ua 
face country t.1EI thnsw1l       0orIfteenn _neirntn_ofnoreltS                               bogo  toaldnliog  nerO   irortj-ly             i  lIIn  qarer .... tperEe g
andfentstr  teed  In  rojotet  urose.                                  e  otl,guhr   n  rune   d.e.tn1re.p..ts py
Ores tonao onrulelon-lnssoteeeey   opulatio  ther Is to-nnd ste
of  nte Itw isese   I.  e Iei  eetnly. Teettumr  popuctlo tis  seeenrlleto  all  ages. atteprmr-rop-                                            pe naeeoleeete
reheatedh onl Ohm basco thepostdngrnslre tthe popj,tislt                                         narsbo-g              ooeln;nral                 ldsrlds   gd6i
sent lasst.f  lftiiy    ..djI.                                                EUCTONeotsthotesleuainenoleteysne    l   ers
sta  Sea bearI    Th I.i . resJ Id.                                                       Scitdrv -hcool  tondi, sale sdd  fsaeie - Gle...ut.d as . eb ds fae
-irarsotre       tbsi      1f,.  l     td    -ir.~t ftsh:uoa tn reqfret arl leat  four yearsIl   of-apRoe prmyletruestea
Pe ys . A.r  00  -     h.t-yea   p fpuiclne ipe   sqar  kf-letye -10  heta re   ofI.                  -h-1ewgeerl eA-tos,orteoe    rane    hisluttw feg
Peran. ke. eenioultursiland-Coapuredaeralboedw.  fofragfrioul-ntherfat.trlard                                                            ..ttludeId.
only.                                                                                 untietisoraaceed-oTh.ent ypercent n fypspojndirslI-Ottsee   a ttute
lro. 90.l 0970  and 1979 dana. I. bou-rte   ant      r r.l-I end                                                                   . thoosr-Oetai :td.h          srtedI
user pepularfonetfor 1950-Ni,Ih9h0-t-1 sod 10d0-If.                                                eernecdrndi...levels.
tattoos-fo  1kil-fl,.9I0-Il,  nd 1970-I            .                                     as.roerae   f  otladltpoolttn  g d P15yersso  ere..t.,
pepulatlom; 191C1,P1971, end1979 dens.ICOgShoPAPOt
enoclat leo; 1999. 1970, end teTh taos.                                     ears~~~~~1ld  _~ly  wat12 fra   1h7  rIgh  pfragn; I....tudeesaulste    _eareea
Irons tdroueio   hteArraeruserofdagher  anefellher.r.....ry.rec
telto   rse;   sully  fi1e-pa dvrsge   coigo191   190.ad  1971                          bro doateo   eerl  obi Ien ohousd od ofppualo;anide   e
Paenrautost (acere arl -Ade..eIs)- h recetegs uf  serrer-d-                                       coutroru1ltoddeoriog
r00  of eeil  ld-wno   age5 (i-Au y960sr0 Al nhe useB Stt-nru    riet                      otoleet-   jitr rheond.l  1-orudiidton         b -    b10 rene  ..ere   Pe ihs sthso
oI   G-1ra    onet In naeSIL    ~         A.1 1t   I    Ige group.lge ..ra  puslee pr  rhuadpplto;enld`                                               nlesdT   ern
5~letinon tyot   950o 60e 1to0o70utde1970sod  In yAd1oeliter rList.rat inof    ee..ls as I: efect
C_d  5'rth R-  (gl th,,sand) - A-..I ii-                                  orarer Ctouhartn hr.rc..eaod onoiatt..) ASheen tetaveesg dieIud
ra.tIonal a 96eera0gc       . p 1e97r8p0 d wt5hs   916,170   n   96dn.                           n   eeecot
r-erD.I c   Retr    (orl ef  .....odt -A  ...o.r of rauhirreenes.. ld  f  iophd-yfree         NUMTO
or     ..ot .lo   of. wet fod  soo8  tee.  aes....r tognnonryIte nattu             ieo  Fetc
reot,A    wdE-egeI   tc.Stwpie   sld   nmlfe,ses                                             re  forouIund eeholod  buht   roel. ud. ng heudecivbs ..ude.. h-, sIn
que'yrri  eeuedL,to fi-y-esMg,  n  lsesi ddi                    thotnE. lelur6-0e197on  o  easde-   cecoppe  ar   e   npeale    96,17   a
oseoc sng twtearsd  h  Pet haed 00  lyeloigleai nrds fo  hOnu 1 et77        1918.. doer.J,.                                                               .
hoshodlae,Iy1-5 1                970, l  Ird  1917.. d,)-Ate..hSeRa   ereIaeo  ttllao  fne- fh,191en   99  e
'or co traaton   ol potet                                                                --asondy   -Poeooeen   tr0er   IIuar   le rcetI -Lter fon-or     i to ..tot hg,  efarete,auc trtdeg
vet otply elfood  en day   Net spply f  fEnd.IE- is ,de   ..toed  at shre . Re-    . ard el f-lety,nr    an-ae           ypngrg  of tota  lehperbl   isee;190
ellonaue ofhO gnaa 51   atal  rene   peha.    ad1  asso -stbl ad                   VORttlc ttnRae  rn-no   cud    mTe, and  fe t-PehnidIes1 sr
inl  d p ..ete   of eIo  10  gram pbodb,        nmlpoen. eessad                            e  en  parse ore- ohnpunrd asp total,  ae  ndfJrelbe   eoe
ant.   ored lonr.dthaets   of15grs  of tota)  l prret  end 23l gras. epperrtgsoftr,etsadfml  popuatio   of  llth...                                                      apettely;
sotmalpretre  as an Ceeg fothwol,ppadbyAQiteTtr                                        lf, 1910F, sd17  data   "the  arep. TO   partitedsglI  ratesI. esfb
tonid Peed Srrey;  1911-5    1970 end 177 dune.                       ag-nc   d--dur  o  thr poput ele.'   and ilong  rIme- -rt. It  fee eaf.t-
t~~  I  :v,!,d,d'p, I'E-'-  pt.d-i..  f  -hrorta-  ef Pseonb-dnoIeeCloith en eac  an    t-dl t-  here  Synb obee
shlre 1910  197  ad1979 date.l                                                                            I      :.
eater ten  as fbsr  rue protonad  bnrenles, spings, gee  santoer  sells)  a  tatima..  Ogiaf is-A eanly. lonine. Leel lotl. rr.nardta  - arba rad rgrt 
perornogew  oftheir  eepeoree poplundInm..- loa   di.e  arepb           leRom    elteepsrr   nos   evltRoetir.f.nrg.prrept
fevet  e  saipstiosednt  or   bs  Dlaeer    roaboe   ayb                prncl   Oow   fsh   nne     .rha .e.r  Isdt                      lena 19be rura
conetenrd. .    tE           'Aibt    teat   ohwesnOirha  .o.r d. ilr-oalurrm                  let   tOnfsterOrherron f-engt   raecs
-dIepoaasae    Ieferae  nO- rhe  res.Peotrpylt. rooen    oedonoieadyol    at  Ittr
posal mytnetudr  ha osliacton soddlepeesl  eltS nrelthoucteaee-nL,bennfett i Analyisl  ..d ProjethEI.Deet
efhmaeaoeessdsatenesgrby  srr- eo d sectLeior e   oeofOteoP19
per''                                 'I                                      orliw   ad  nata   Ostlitles



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1979 /a                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(at current prices)
FY68-73      FY73-1978       1979
US$                 (%, FY69)   (%, FY73)    (%, 1977)
Million        %       -- --(Constant prices) --------
GNP at Market Prices       2,373.2      100.0         7.8/b        0.2/b        3.3/b
Gross Domestic
Investment                 515.4       21.7        10.7          2.2         11.3
Gross National Saving        598.5       25.2
Current Account Balance       83.1        3.5
Exports of Goods, NFS    1,125.3         47.4        24.6          1.5             0
Imports of Goods, NFS    1,115.9         47.0        10.9          3.7          6.0
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added /c           Employment          V.A. Per Worker
US$ Million      x         000   _           US$    % of National
Average
Agriculture            771.1        34.9       996    87.6        774         39.9
Industry              678.8         30.8       27      2.4    25,141       1,295.3
Services              752.7         34.3       114    10.0      6,642        342.2
Total/Average       2,207.1        100.0    1,137   100.0       1,941        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(K Million)                    % of GDP
1980 /a              1979             FY76-1978
Current Domestic Receipts                 347.8                17.5               19.7
Current Expenditures                      598.5                32.7               32.2
Current Deficit                           250.7                15.2               12.4
Capital Expenditures                      123.2                 5.1                4.5
External Assistance (net)                 175.5                10.7               13.5
/a  Preliminary.  As of January 1, 1978, PNG changed its fiscal year from July 1
- June 30 to January 1 - December 31.  Here, FY   refers to the July 1 -
June 30 period, whereas 197_ refers to the calendar year.
/b  GDP.
/c  At factor cost.
not applicable
not available
March 1981



- 25-ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
June     June
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                        1976      1977     1978      1979       1979      1980
(Million K outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                          277.8    428.5    449.0    571.7        506.6    577.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector, net               18.0      3.3      13.5      35.0       63.9      34.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector, net             111.7    136.7    193.8    227.5        213.0    275.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               22.2     29.5      31.4
Consumer Price Index (1977 - 100)               95.8    100.0    105.8    111.9        109.5    123.2
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                          8.6       4.4       5.8       5.8        5.2     12.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 0.4      22.4      41.8      17.4       26.0     29.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-1980)
1978    1979    1980                                    US$
(US$ Million)                                        Million    X
Exports of Goods               751.7 1,016.9  988.8    Coffee                           168.2    18.8
Imports of Goods               669.3   786.5  982.5    Cocoa                             80.2     9.0
Resource Gap (Deficit - -)    82.4   230.4    6.3    Copra & Copra Products              68.3      7.7
Services (net)                -239.1  -310.2 -421.7    Timber & Timber Products          52.1     5.8
Transfers (net)                166.2   157.9  162.3    Copper Concentrates              226.7    25.4
Balance on Current Account       9.5    78.1 -243.5    Gold                             212.1    23.8
All Other Commodities          85.2      9.5
Private Capital (net)          -28.3    15.7   27.9
Public MLT Loans (net)          -7.8    37.5   68.9    Total                            892.7   100.0
Errors and Omissions /b         24.1   -21.7   63.5
Increase in Reserves            -2.5   109.6  -83.0    EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
US$
Million
Imports of fuel and related
materials                     65.3   76.4   108.7       Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed         477.9
Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed         477.9
PUBLIC DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979 /c
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                   X
1977                            1980                     Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed           4.3
Nonguaranteed Private Debt
US$1.00 = K 0.79                US$1.00 = K 0.67
K 1.00 = US$1.26                K 1.00 = US$1.50         Total Outstanding & Disbursed           4.3
1978-1979                                                IBRD/IDA LENDING (AS OF 12/31/79)
US$1.00 = K 0.71                                                                           US$ Million
K 1.00 = US$1.41                                                                           IBRD   IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed          54.7  42.6
Undisbursed                      10.0  27.2
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  64.7  69.8
/a Preliminary.
/b Including capital n.e.i.
/c Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
.. not available
March 1981



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. STATEMENT OF BANK-LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(as of March 31, 1981)
Loan or
Credit                                                  Amounts (US$ millions)
Number       Year      Borrower      Purpose          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Five credits and five loans fully disbursed            55.5    25.2         -
1333-PNG    1976         PNG        Agriculture        12.0                 6.9
661-PNG    1976         PNG         Education                   4.0        0.6
677-PNG    1977         PNG         Roads                      19.0        2.7
1551-PNG    1978        PNG          Ports II           3.5                 0.7
841-PNG    1978         PNG         Rural Development          20.0       13.3
1856-PNG    1980        PNG         Third Highways   17.0                  17.0
1030-PNG    1980         PNG         Third Highways             13.0        7.1
Total                                     88.0    81.2        48.3
of which has been repaid/b                 8.6      0.1
Total now outstanding                     79.4    81.81
Amount sold                 8.1
Repaid                      5.5            2.6
Total now held by Bank
and IDA                                 76,.8    81.1
Total undisbursed                         24.6    23.7        48.3
/a Total does not include the Primary Education Project (Loan of $6.0 million
and Credit of SDR 9.4 million) which has not yet been signed.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 1333 Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project;
US$12.0 Million Loan of November 19, 1976; Effective
Date: January 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project is designed to establish 9,600 ha of oil palms with
processing facilities around Popondetta. It includes 4,000 ha nucleus
estate and a factory to serve both estate and smallholder production,
developed as a joint venture between the Government and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation. The Bank-financed portion of the project includes:
5,600 ha of oil palm plantings, subdivided into 1,400 smallholder plots;
long-term credit facilities for smallholders to be provided through the
PNGDB; extension and visiting inspection services; and technical assistance
for project management; social infrastructure and improvement of the road
network.
Smallholder oil palm planting is slightly behind target but this
is expected to be back on schedule by the end of the current planting sea-
son. The nucleus estate planting is ahead of schedule and should be com-
pleted by May 1981, one year ahead of appraisal estimate. The first phase
development of the oil palm processing factory has been completed and became
operational on May 15, 1980.  The transport company for collection of small-
holder crop has been formed and the first harvest from smallholder blocks
within the project was collected on September 2, 1980. All other works are
generally on schedule but some cost overruns have occurred in the road
program which will be met from unallocated funds. Disbursement still lags
behind expenditure - following a temporary improvement - and this is
primarily due to the fact that the drawdown from PNGDB is well below the
actual physical situation.
Credit No. 661 Education Project: US$4.0 Million Credit of November 19,
1976; Effective Date: January 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is designed to: (a) meet manpower requirements in
agriculture, industry, health and the teaching service; and (b) support
education and planning studies in PNG. Physical project implementation
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
is nearing completion on schedule; technical assistance has incurred
minor delays, but these are being overcome. Educational outcomes look
promising. Project costs are within appraisal estimates. Disbursements
lag behind schedule because of delayed submission of withdrawal applications.
Credit No. 677 Second Highlands Road Improvement Project; US$19.0
Million Credit of January 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project will improve and pave 68 kn of the Highlands Highway.
It further provides detailed engineering and feasibility studies of the same
highway in rural development studies of the Enga and Chimbu Provinces, and
techical assistance to domestic road construction contractors. Civil works
are proceeding satisfactorily; detailed engineering and feasibility studies
have been completed. The Chimbu rural development study has been completed
and the Enga study will be finished in the second part of 1980. The
technical assistance component has also been completed.
Loan No. 1551 Second Port Project; US$3.5 Million Loan of May 18, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project will provide facilities for container handling at
Port Moresby so that the greater efficiencies of container shipping can be
realized. Major components include additional land reclamation of 1.6 ha,
to give a total of 4.2 ha, a 125 m berth, an extension of the present
container freight station, and improvements to the port access road. Also
included in the project are a 30 m coastal berth at Samarai, located on a
small island off the coast of Southern Papua, provision of three pilot
launches and consulting services for project design and implementation, and
for training Papua New Guinea Harbours Board staff. All major project compo-
nents have been satisfactorily completed.
Total dry cargo traffic at all PNGHB's ports in 1980 was 1.86 million
tons, slightly over that for 1979 (1.81). Total container traffic at all
PNGHB's ports in 1980 was about 52,910 which represents a 10% increase over
container traffic in 1979. The Government approved a tariff increase of about
71% in total revenues. This increase should enable the Harbours Board to
meet its future financial obligations as well as comply with the 7% rate of
return covenant required under the loan.
Credit No. 841 Rural Development Project I; US$20.0 Million Credit of
November 7, 1978; Effective Date: March 7, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
Within the Southern Highlands Province, the project would provide
for research into subsistence crops, nutrition and health of the people,



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
expand coffee, tea, silk and cardamom production, build roads, schools and
health subcenters; support adult education and agricultural extension
services; and contribute to the general development of the province's people
and economy. The construction of civil works (roads, schools, health centers,
training facilities and houses) is generally on schedule. After some initial
delay, the nutrition and subsistence component of the project is gaining
momentum after the appointment of a team leader and five consultants for the
research unit in the fall of 1980. However, two more consultants and several
more technical specialists will still have to be recruited in 1981. The
facilities for the nurses training school at Mendi have been completed.
However, the program for nurses training was held up by the National Nursing
Council because of shortage of tutorial staff at the school and shortage of
adequate experienced staff at the Mendi hospital. Teaching has commenced in
two secondary schools of which one is still under construction. Under the
non-formal education component, many schools and villages have received
various types of assistance. Tea, coffee and cardamom companies have been
formed and are satisfactorily managed or advised by a full complement of
technical staff in the Southern Highlands Management Authority (SHMA).  In
the land development program, there has been some shift from originally pro-
posed tea lands to coffee and cardamom, due to the increased costs of
transportation of fresh tea leaves from the tea lands to the factory. The
establishment of smallholders' coffee plantings (clan coffee blocks) is
somewhat slow. The silk component of the project has been fully assessed
by an FAO mission in April, 1980, which has made appropriate recommendations.
Project Management will undergo some more changes during 1981. Both Project
Manager and Deputy Project Manager have indicated their intent to leave the
project after they have identified suitable and experienced successors. For
the Deputy position a well-experienced project accountant with managerial
capacities is being recruited.
Loan No. 1856 and   Third Highway Project; US$13.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 1030   and US$17.0 Million Loan of May 27, 1980;
Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The project would assist the Government in completing its program
to improve and pave the Highlands Highway from the main port at Lae through
the Hfighlands region up to Togoba. It would, further, help strengthen
central and provincial governments by assistance in formulating through the
help of consultants a strategy for maintenance of national, provincial and
village roads. The project also provides additional assistance for transport
planning and project identification, preparation and implementation at the
provincial level. The civil works have been successfully tendered and con-
struction is underway. The consultants' study on rural transport is also
underway and the Inception Report has been received. The Government's
assitance for road maintenance has not started yet.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project                                  :  Six months
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project   : Government with
consultants
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA, and
date of the first IDA mission to consider
the project                                  : Mid-1978
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission         : April 6, 1980
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations             : April 23, 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                  : August 21, 1981
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) the establishment of Steering Committee and the appointment of its
members (para. 44); and
(b) the signing of the subsidiary loan agreement (para. 47).



IBRD 15009
146- ~~~~~~~~~~50                                                                   50APRIL 1Q8
, e::2:58.;    tCEAN                                                                                                                         PAPUA  NEW  GUINEA
.APQA NEIA4 GUINEA                                                                                               SECOND   AGRICULTURAL   CREDIT  PROJECT
b   r~~~,   PA6A Nrw dIJIN~~~~~~~~~A                                                             DISTRIBUTION  OF CASH  CROP AREAS AND~
~~~ ForGO ~~~~~~~~~~'<tN  j ~~~~~~~PNGDB  FIELD  OFFICES
eVe,^M~?@  _ns.* "1'^   _                                                                                                                _    COCONUTSS
:A9- v^4TR^tIA ; E % V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COFFEE :   
A '                                                                                             E ~= =; .  :  *  8*iorengan   \  _  CRUABER
I       OIL PALM
<    :   >;  i42-                                                                               go        Koving                                       PYRETHRUM
; &\|4   0:~~~~~~~~                                    ~      ~      ~     ~    ~~ - ____ -\ - - -                                  TEA                     .,$0;
NEW IEAD      i
I'I          -                                                                                                                                          U \  s.    NEW IRELAN   s;  BRANCH OFFICE OFFICE
WESTSEPIK    I                                                                                                                                        ANIjWWk  I  N  A    SIREFRANCH OFFICE
40     I                                                                        N                  14%                   *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ REPRESENTATIVE OFFIC
-4- i   JJ         j           EAST SEPIK     I                                                                                                                 - - -  PROVINCIAL ROUNQARIES  4t-
-61l? F%                                                                                                                   I_.-Qto' {, -lpePlG ,'R-- . a \ * I \ * I f * - INTERNAtiONAL ROUNOAR0IES. -
I    ~~----~~  s-    MADANG
< f,<    4          ,,,ENGA*I  ',; t                                        _
> 1 ; f + wA / < W.b.                                             X41
<    WEEST NEW BRITAI                                                                                            EAST NEW BRIT:AIN                                        O
P IA                                       %Son -' 1                                                                                                                      >  \'  '  7;-fASL A.
<           ~ </T       5f~~\vt                                                           OTEN            ,;SOUTHERN  ,  I                                            G WL 
LIKE                HIGHLANDS                HI                                                                                                                                 -
-  MI/A  -                      *~~~~~~~GULF *ROE                       'I-SOO                                                                                            N
k    WESTERN            "            ''      S                                                                                                           - -   , O  ,NQi-
.0          < L ,   X[:;'1.   J                     %   o K o o                     9            MIE-   ;; 
D..oot                                               * -           NORTHERN          /4
1~~~. A- -                             N                                  WE                                 KIOEESj/b,/t iC                                                           ; ,:1
PORT MORESBY -C IrTRAL
*      I                                                     Ct'>      N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'IL NE WAY1
=M                                    Thi. .op h. born pwotd bj' Nh.
MI'LES                                                  th--
AL1~~~~~~~~~~T0AiIk  2  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~01dooo.t LV,o  ooflaoof.
USTRAWA                                                                                                IT,                                                      Aom IorNoMr fOoIo
p4420         A                                                                   1500~~~~~~~~~160iw                             1540



