                                     Documentof
                                  The World Bank




                                                     ReportNo.: 30498




              PROJECTPERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT


                                        IRAN


                 TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 3479-IR)


                                        AND


          IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3570-IR)




                                 November 11,2004




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group

Operations Evaluation Department

CURRENCY      EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =Iranian Rials


1992-93                            -      Rials 70 official rate at project approval
                  US$l.oo
                  US$1.oo
                                   -      Rials 600 or 1,400 for categorized imports
2001              US$1  .oo        -
                                   -      Rials 8,000 at project completion

ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
ED0               Engineering and Development Organization
ERR               economic rate o f return
FY                fiscal year
IAS               InterimAssistance Strategy
ICB               intemational competitive bid
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               Intemational Development Association
KWPA              Khudastan Water and Power Authority
M o E             MinistryofEnergy
MoJA              Ministry ofJihad andAgriculture
M W P A           Mazandaran Water and Power Authority
O&M               operation and maintenance
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
OMC               operation and maintenance company
PBO               Planning and Budget Organization
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
P W A             Provincial Water Authority
RWC               regional water company
S A R             Staff Appraisal Report
TBM               tunnel boring machine
WUA               water user association
wucc              Water User Consumer Cooperative
WUG               water users group

FISCALYEAR
Government:               March2l-March 20




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                    :   Mr.GregoryK.Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department                 :   Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                    :   Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                               :   Mr.George T. KeithPitman

                                                              i


    OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independence in evaluation.


 About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank`s self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank'swork is
 producingthe expected results,and second,to help develop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annuallyassesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requested assessments;and those that are likely to generate
 important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselected for assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
 The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project`s objectives are consistent with the country's
 current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project`s objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                        ...
                                                                       ill



  Contents

  PrincipalRatings and Key Staff Responsible                                  ..................................................................  v
                                                                                                                                                  ..
  Preface ..............................................................................................................................        vi1

  Summary    ...........................................................................................................................         ix

  1 Background
   .                     ..................................................................................................................       1

  2.  The Projects       ..................................................................................................................       2
                     Objectives ....................................................................................................              2
                     Implementing Arrangements .......................................................................                            2
                     Implementation ............................................................................................                  4
  3 Evaluation
   .                  .....................................................................................................................       5

          Tehran Drainage Project.....................................................................................                            6
                     Counterfactual..............................................................................................                 6
                     Relevance......................................................................................................              8
                     Efficacy........................................................................................................             8
                     Efficiency................................................................................................... 10
                     Institutional Development Impact..............................................................
                     Sustainability.............................................................................................. 10
                              . . .                                                                                                             10

         Irrigation Improvement Project .........................................................................                               11
                     Counterfactual............................................................................................ 11
                    Relevance................................................................................................... 12
                    Efficacy......................................................................................................              12
                    Efficiency...................................................................................................                16
                    Institutional Development Impact.,............................................................                              17
                     Sustainability.............................................................................................. 19
                              . . .
         Overall Bank and Borrower Performance ..........................................................                                       20

  4.  Findingsand Lessons                .................................................................................................      21
                    Findings...................................................................................................... 21
                    Lessons....................................................................................................... 22




I This
Ireport was
      report was preparedby George T.KeithPitman. who assessedthe projectsinDecember 2003 The
           editedby William Hurlbut. and Soon-WonPakprovidedadministrativesupport                                               .         .

                                                .iv.




Annex A Basic Data Sheet
       .                 ..............................................................................................      25

Annex B Iran: TeheranDrainageProject(Loan 3479)
      .                                                                    ...............................................   31

Annex C Iran: IrrigationImprovementProject(Loan 3570)
       .                                                                                .................................... 33

Maps

                                                   V



 PrincipalRatingsand Key StaffResponsible

 IRAN: TEHRAN      DRAINAGE     PROJECT (LOAN       3479-IR)

                               ICR*                      ICR Review*               PPAR

 Outcome                       Satisfactory              Satisfactory              Satisfactory
 Sustainability                 Highly Likely            Likely                    Likely
 Institutional Development     Modest                    Substantial              Substantial
 Impact
 Bank Performance              Satisfactory             Satisfactory              Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance          Satisfactory             Satisfactory              Satisfactory
 * The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperational division of
 the Bank.The ICR Review is an intermediateOED productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of
 the ICR.


 Project                      Task Manager               Division Chief/             Country
          ~ - _ _ _ _                                    Sector Manager             Director
Appraisal (1994)             Mario A. Zelaya             Alistair J. McKechnie       Ram K. Chopra
Completion (2001)            Mathewos Waldu              Emmanuel Forestier         Joseph P. Saba



IRAN: IRRIGATIONIMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3570-IR)


                              ICR*                      ICR Review*               PPAR
Outcome                       Satisfactory              Moderately                Moderately
                                                        Satisfactory             Satisfactory
Sustainability                 Highly Likely            Likely                    Likely
Institutional Development     Substantial               Substantial              Modest
Impact
Bank Performance              Satisfactory              Satisfactory             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance          Satisfactory              Satisfactory             Satisfactory
  The Implementation CompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsible operational division of
the Bank.The ICR Reviewis an intermediate OED product that seeks to independentlyverify the findings of
the ICR.


Project                      Task Manager               Division Chief/             Country
                                                        Sector Manager             Director
Appraisal (1994)             Aizad Khan                 Nkozi N. Okonjo-            Ram K. Chopra
                                                        lweala
Completion (2001)            Adel Bichara               Salah Darghouth            Joseph P. Saba


                                              vii




        This i s the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) preparedby the
 Operations Evaluation Department (OED) for the IranTehran Drainage Project andthe
Irrigation Improvement Project. The Tehran Drainage Project was approved inM a y 1992
 for a Loan o f US$77.0 million and closed, hlly disbursed, two years behindschedule in
December 2000. Total project costs at completionwere US$111.3 million. The Irrigation
Improvement Project was approved for a Loan o fUS$157.0 million inMarch 1993 and
was closed, fully disbursed, on schedule inJune 2003. Total project costs at completion
were US$311.7 million.

        This report is based on the Implementation Completion Reports (ICR) prepared
bythe Middle East andNorthAfrica Region(Report No. 22189 dated May 2001 andNo.
23335 dated December 2001), the Memoranda and Recommendations o f the President,
Staff Appraisal Reports, loan documents, project files, and discussions with Bank staff.
An OED mission visited IraninDecember 2003 andmet stakeholders to discuss the
effectiveness o f the Bank's assistance with development and financing partners, project
implementing agencies, private sector agencies, and beneficiaries. The cooperation and
assistance o f central government, Tehran Municipality and regional officials and staff,
nongovernmental stakeholders, and other interested parties are gratefully acknowledged.

        Although Iran had graduated from the Bank inthe mid-l970s, it rejoined in 1991
as a result o f the adverse economic impact o f the Iraq-Iran War and these two projects
were part o f the first round o f lending 1991-1993. Subsequently, the economy
experienced significant difficulties and further Bank lending was suspended until 2000.
Inthese circumstances, a more thorough evaluation than the ICRwas requiredandwould
serve as input into a possible forthcoming Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) for Iran.
Additionally, the project raised issues o f sustainability because o f challenging socio-
economic and national budget conditions, reliance on subsidies, and institutional
restructuring needed to facilitate either beneficiary management or ownership.

        Following standard OED procedures, this draft PPAR was sent to the borrower
for comments, but none were received.


                                                i x


 Summary

          The Islamic Republic o f Iran's Tehran Drainage Project and the Irrigation
 Improvement Project were approved in 1992 and 1993 respectively. The projects shared a
 common objective to better manage water resources and improve the capacity and
 transparency o f responsible sector institutions.

          The outcome o f the Tehran Drainage Project is rated as satisfactory. Urban
 flooding was minimized. Through successful transfer o f tunnelingtechnology and good
 management, the project constructed deep drainage tunnels below the city to collect
 surface runoffand discharged it safely away from the urban area. Although Tehran
 Municipality used a modest amount o f technical assistance for project planning and
 implementation o f the civil works (through partnerships with local consulting firms), it
 didnot accept the ideathat the Bank's extemal advice was neededto ensure sound
 financial management and the related project component was unsuccessful.

          Overall institutional development impact i s rated substantial, however. A
 municipally-created and owned but autonomous project management company is now
 responsible for all planning and technical aspects o f drainage works inGreater Tehran
 and i s successfully implementing a master plan for Tehran drainage using equipment
 provided by the project. Although Tehran Municipality resisted the Bank's efforts to
 reform its financial procedures, it i s slowly making improvements to its financial
 management under intemal pressures from the Iran Audit Organization and the City
 Council.

         Efficiency i s rated substantial. Benefits resulting from the project are substantial -
 about US$19 million a year     - and the economic rate o f retum (ERR) i s estimated to be 20
 percent (the financial rate o f retum is estimated at 28 percent).

         Sustainability is likely. The very highquality o f engineering and construction and
the passive nature o f the mostly subterranean drainage infrastructure will ensure the
 sustainability o f the project works over its 30-year economic life. Even though funding o f
adequate maintenance - mainly cleaning and removing debris and sediment -i s uncertain
because this has been devolved to each o f the 21 districts o f Tehran, the Municipality i s
addressing this problem.

         The outcome o f the IrrigationImprovement Project i s rated as moderately
satisfactory. This balances substantial achievement on physical targets, agricultural
extension, and development o f local-level irrigationmanagement institutions against
negligible progress on institutional objectives at the national level. At completion, the
project achieved improvements to irrigation over an area o f 84,600 hectares and
increasedwater use efficiency. Trial farms showed highpotential for on-farm water
saving but this has yet to be adopted by farmers, highlightingthe importance o f further
efforts to increase the effectiveness o f agricultural extension services. Even so, net farm
income rose as a result o f the project by more than 40 percent.

                                                          10


 a positionthe Bank reluctantly accepted toward the end o f the project, The view expressed to
 OED by Tehran Municipality was that they would not allow foreigners access to their
 accounts because it was and i s a confidential internal matter. Thus, the high efficacy o f
 engineering and planning-related technical assistance i s balanced by the negligible progress
 on financial issues, and overall efficacy on this objective is rated modest.

 Efficiency

 28.       Efficiencyis ratedsubstantial.The project, even though modifiedto resite the
 terminal reservoir away from the site o f Khomeiny's Shrine, was completed with budget
 savings. These savings, as well as additional funding from the Municipality, enabled
 additional headwork collector tunnels to be constructed. Benefits resulting from the project
 are substantial - about US$19 million a year - and the I C R estimated the economic rate o f
 return to be 20 percent (Annex B) and the financial rate o f return28 percent.'2 Benefits could
 have been higher ifdrainage water, which is heavily polluted, had been treated and
 effectively used to supplement irrigati~n.'~Money spent on technical assistance for the TBM
 could have been reduced iflocally available resources hadbeen more fully utilized (footnote
 11).

 InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

 29.      Overall institutionaldevelopment impact is ratedsubstantial Tehran               .
 Municipality created the municipally-owned but autonomous Khakriz Ab Company to be
 responsible for all planning and technical aspects o f drainage works inGreater Tehran. This
 company housed the project implementation unit that managedprocurement and recruited a
private-sector contractor to effectively supervise project works. DuringOED's discussion
with Khakriz Ab it was clear that the company was professionally runand successfully
implementing a master plan for Tehran drainage. The Municipality successfully used the
Bank's loan to increase the skills o f its staff to make substantial infrastructure improvements
to the city. Although Tehran Municipality resisted the Bank's efforts to reform its financial
procedures, it is slowly making improvements to its financial management under pressure
from the Iran Audit Organization and the City Council.

Sustainability

30.      Sustainabilityis likely. The very highquality o f engineering and construction and
the passive nature o fthe mostly subterranean drainage infrastructure will ensure the
sustainability o f the project works over its 30-year economic life. The risk o f damage to


12. Benefits include reduction o f damage to houses and other buildings, stocks, bridges, sidewalks and streets,
telephone infrastructure, Tehran Railway station, properties along the Firouzabad Canal, and crop damage inthe
farming areas south of Tehran. Savings also accrued from reduction o f clean-up costs and economic and
commercial disruption.
13. At mid-termreview the Bank consideredusing project savings to builda water treatment plant for the
drainage water but decided this was outside the scope o f the project. Inpart, this decision was conditionedb y
the lack o f interest by the Ministryo fJihad and Agriculture and the Ministry o f Energy.

                                                            11


 concrete tunnel linings from increased groundwater pollution i s small, and while the
 earthquake hazard is known, the risks are not. Technical knowledge and skills required for
 operation and maintenance are readily available within or through Khakriz Ab. However,
 funding o f adequate maintenance -mainly cleaning and removing debris and sediment -is
 uncertain because this has been devolved to each o f the 21 districts o f Tehran. The
 municipality is aware o f the problem but, to date the issue i s unresolved (para 29). As far as
 OED could determine, none o f the districts systematicallyplans for maintenance o f deep
 drains, reacting only to emergencies -very much a case o f "out o f sight, out o f mind."
 Although it does not threaten sustainability, a growing street garbage problem causes
 obstruction o f surface drains and sometimes small-scale local flooding. When washed into
 the drainage system it ends up inthe terminal reservoir and its clearance has greatly
 increasedmaintenance costs. The Municipality is acutely aware o f the garbage problem and
 i s promoting development o f a solid waste management plan to deal with it.


 IRRIGATION       IMPROVEMENT         PROJECT

 Counterfactual.

 31.       The project was designed to improve irrigation and drainage systems infour
 subprojects serving a net irrigable area o f about 90,600 hectares. Within these areas
 incomplete project infrastructure, and poor operation and maintenance, jeopardized reliable
 and timely water supply. Unlined canals and unleveled fields reduced water use efficiency
 and created drainage problems. Agricultural extensionwas top-down and ineffective. These
 factors constrained agricultural production and thus farmers' incomes. Inthe absence o f the
project, agricultural production would be constrained byphysical/engineering problems over
 5 1,050 hectares and poor agronomic and water management skills over the whole area.I4
Average cropping intensity over the 90,600 hectares was 90 percent." Crop yields were
generally 30 to 50 percent below potential yields inthe same agro-climatic conditions.'6

32.       Inthe absence o ftheproject itwas expectedat appraisal that these conditions would
continue and that agricultural production would deteriorate by one percent a year inthree o f
the four subprojects. The government hadbegun a program o f phasing-out agricultural
subsidies and financial sector liberalization that would affect availability o f agricultural
credit and cost o f inputs. Although monitoring and evaluation o f the project sites was
initiated, no "without treatment" control sites or methods were established to enable a

14. Thirty eight thousand seven hundredhectares were already irrigated and 800 ha were under orchard. O f the
residual area o f 5 1,050 ha, over half(27,550 ha) needed significant upgrading o firrigation infrastructure
(tertiary channels, lining, water control structures etc.), and 16,000 ha were saline or waste inneed o f land
leveling and drainage. 7,500 ha were rainfed only.
15. Cropping intensity i s an indexo f land use. Ifonly one crop is grown over an area per year, the cropping
intensity is 100percent. Iftwo crops are grown over the whole area - for example, summer wheat and winter
vegetables  -the cropping intensity would be 200 percent.
16. The major crops interms o f area are wheat, barley, alfalfa. Average wheat yields were 2 to 2.5 tonslha
compared with potential yields o f 3.5 to 4 tonsha (determined from MOJA's experimental farms). Barley yields
were 1.5 to 3 tonslha (average 2.2) and the potential was 3 to 4 todha. Alfalfa yields were 3 to 4 tonha and the
potential was 4 to 6 tonha.

                                                 12


 realistic counterfactual, including background trends and exogenous effects, to be
 determined.


 Relevance

 3 3 .    The project's objectives were and remain relevant to the sector strategies of Iran
 and the Bank. Major soil and water resources were and continue to be untapped or
 underutilized, and there remains substantial scope to increase yields by introducing improved
 technology. Although the project improved irrigationand drainage infrastructure and
 networks, much remains to be done. Water resources remainpoorly utilized because there i s
 still a large amount o f incomplete infrastructure and inadequate technology, both leadingto
 low water-use efficiency (30 percent on average for the country). The objective to improve
 cross-sectoral cooperation and institutionaldevelopment inmanagingIran's water,
 agriculture, and environment was reaffirmedduring execution o f the projects and i s a key
 element o f government's ongoing Third Five-Year Development Plan for 1999-2004. The
 government emphasized decentralization and participatory involvement at the local level.
 This is to be matched by a decline inits participation inthe operation and maintenance o f
 irrigation schemes and a renewedfocus on increasing productivity and farm incomes in
 agriculture.

 34.      The needs ofthe water resources and agricultural sectors were highlightedinthe
 Bank's Agricultural and NaturalResources Management Sector Note o f January 2001 andits
 Interim Assistance Strategy (IAS) o f May 2001. The IAS supports the government's
 priorities o f economic reforms, social protection, environmental and natural resource
management and advocates a comprehensive river basin approach to water resource
management. The IAS states that any new Bank involvement inwater management and
 agricultural development o f ariver basin should link watershed management o f the basin's
upperreaches with conservation and integrated management o fwater resources inthe lower
reaches. Inthe lower reaches where water resources are usedfor irrigation and urbanwater
supply, surface and ground water resources needto be conjunctively managed inorder to
support irrigation development and maintain sustainable environment management andurban
water supplies. A key challenge i s to improve the operation and maintenance (O&M)
efficiency o f the rural and urban hydraulic infrastructure, particularly inTehran. These
include declining water availability and its deteriorating quality, low water-use efficiencies,
salinity, water logging and drainage, inadequate O&M, limited cost recovery, and lack o f
institutional coordination.


Efficacy

35.       Overall efficacy is rated substantial, but only just so. This balances substantial
achievement on physical targets, agricultural extension, and development o f local-level
irrigationmanagement institutions against negligible progress on institutional objectives at
the national level.

                                                          13


  Objective I:Management ofirrigation and drainagesystems and water resources
  improved.

  36.      Original physical targets were substantially achieved. Eventhough the total area
  o f 87,500 hectares targeted for improvement was reduced by over a third at mid-term review
 because o f cost escalation, at completion the project achieved improvements over a net area
  o f 84,600 hectares because of efficiency improvements and design modifications. The M o E
  constructed or rehabilitated about 600 kilometers o f main and secondary canals and 504
 kilometers o f drains serving 54,500 hectares." The area developed by the M o J A was 33,900
 hectares and included 15,400 hectares o f subsurface drainage and land leveling over 8,400
 hectares. Cost escalation caused cancellation o f 7,900 hectares o f subsurface drainage, 6,800
 hectares o f tertiary irrigation and 430 hectares o f land leveling. Some o f the works proposed
 were also cancelled when detailed site investigation showed these were not necessary."
 Physical works inspected by OED were well-designed and construction quality was high.

 37.       Improved infrastructure facilitates better water use. Liningo f the main and
 secondary canals has reducedwater losses and markedly improved conveyance efficiency
 from about 70 to over 90 percent. With improvements inthe tertiary irrigation system and
 better on-farm water management, this has increased overall water use efficiency to over 42
 percent -before the project, overall efficiency was inthe range 20-30 percent.lg

 38.       Pilot water management studies show low on-farm water use efficiency. Trials
 conducted by the general consultants over the four cropping seasons 1999-2000 inthe
 Behbahan and Moghan subprojects demonstrated that significant water savings - 42 percent
 on average - could accrue from better farmer management. And average field application
 efficiency increased from 28 to 58 percent.20Reduced water application also led to higher
 crop yields, ranging from 7 to 73 percent. When standardized (inkilograms o f yieldper cubic
 meter o f water) overall improvements inwater use efficiency averaged 139 percent (ranging
 from 76 to 257 percent). These results highlight the importance o f increasing the
 effectiveness o f agricultural extension services.

 39.      But lack of volumetric water sales limit farmers' incentivesto conserve water.
As part o fthe modernization process, insufficient attention was givento equipping canals,
diversions, and outlets with devices to measure discharge. This is the result o f adopting gated
water control structures that make flow measurement difficult and require manual operation.
Consequently, following national practice, farmers and individual water user groups (WUGs)

    ~




17. The total area covered by both agencies combined was 87,400 ha, but this included a common area o f 2,800
ha served by MoE's primary and secondary canals and MoJA's tertiary canals, land leveling and/or drainage.
18. For example, at Behbahan the presence o f subsurface gravel beds preclude construction o f lateral drains and
only collector drains were needed- this led to cost savings o f 25 percent.
19.Personal communications from Herve Plusquellec after visiting Iranian irrigation systems, M a y 2004. For
the Moghan subproject Plusquellec estimates primary and secondary conveyance efficiency to be 90 percent,
tertiary distribution 85 percent, and on-farm application 40 percent.
20. Three treatments (20 ha total) were set up with three repetitions and reference ineach season at Behbahan
and Moghan. The main variable was the interval between irrigations; subsidiary variables included different
field preparations and plant layout.

                                                          14


 are only charged for water by M o E according to the area and crops grown ineach season,
 despite the clear evidence that too much water i s being used.2'

 40.      Maintenanceof facilitiesis well-managedand overheadcosts have beenreduced.
 The highquality o f the engineering o f new and rehabilitated infrastructure is robust and this
 has minimized maintenance costs. And since 1992, the MoEhas created a number o f
 Operation and Maintenance Companies empowered to employ consultants to plan and
 supervise maintenance programs carried out by contractors on the primary and secondary
 irrigationcanals. Tertiary maintenance is normally undertaken by farmers and water users'
 groups under contract to the OMCs using 10 to 15 percent o f the water user fees collected.
 These newly introduced arrangement appear to be working well.

 41.     Environmentalconcernswere addressedbut needto movebeyondstudies.
 Environmental studies successfully heightened awareness o f water quality issues and wetland
 conservation. Agrochemical, surface water and groundwater quality monitoringprograms
 were developed under the MoJA's Agricultural Researchand Education Organization and
 specific wetland and wildlife investigations were undertakenby consultants supervised by
 staffo f the Department o f the Environment embedded with the MoE/MoJA subproject
 implementation teams.22Inall, 24 studies were completed and two - a census o f migratory
 birds and establishment o f a gazelle sanctuary -were cancelled. These programs were
 significantly under-funded by M o E and MoJA (who held the purse-strings), and got o f f to a
 late start (para. 14) because o f their low institutional priority. This meant that most studies
 were completedjust as the project was ending and funds ran out. Inconsequence, none o f the
proposals has been implemented.

 Objective 2: Cropproduction and farmincomes increased

42.      With assured and timely water and improvedagricultural extension services, crop
production increased. Improved agricultural extension was brought about by 4,620 individual
courses that reached 33,500 farmers. Table 3 summarizes project achievements according to
the results o f monitoring studies carried out by the project consultants.

43.      Agricultural researchunder the project demonstrated that higher productivity
increases were also feasible through better management o f fertilizer, pesticides, and
improvedcultivation. The results from six pilot villages (spread over the four subprojects),
where the Agricultural Research and Education organization implemented improved
extension services, show significant income gains (Table 4). However, on a larger-scale,
what is normally experienced is that actual on-farm yield improvements are about halfo f
those found under intense supervision.


21. Eachprovince has standards that relate irrigation fee to crop type and yield with allowances being made for
reduced yields due to pests, drought, or salinity. The fee-setting process i s the responsibility o f the agricultural
extension organization and water fees are collected by project Operation and Maintenance Companies that
subcontract this service to the private sector.

22. Major studies includedMarun FishManagement, and environmental management plans for the 527,000 ha
Shadegan Marshes near Behbahan and the Lake Uromiyeh National Park adjacent to the Zarinneh Roud
subproject.

                                                     15


 44.      Individual farmers and farmers' groups interviewed by OED confirmed that inall
 cases their incomes had increasedas a result o f project interventions (land consolidation,
 leveling, irrigation, and better extension). For example, at Behbahan, farmer Ibrahim, who
 was earlier only able to irrigate a quarter o f his own 7 ha and barely sustain his family, i s
 now irrigating all his land and saving regularly.

 Table 3: Increasedagriculturalproductivity,1993-2003

 Subproject             Area (ha)      Cropping Intensity      Average Yield
                                       Before       After        Increase

 Behbahan                  11,500        88           129           38
 Moghan                   35,600         104          138           49
 Zarrineh Roud            36,000         70           81            90
 Tajan                     7,500         95           117           48
 0veraI!                                 90           I13           64
 Source: Liaison Office of MoJA and Yekom Consulting Engineers, December 2003



 Table 4: Improvedincomewith better extensionservices on pilot farms
                                                                                                 -
                                        Chemical     Herbicide   Pesticide   Yield  Net Increase in


Moghan/Parsabad                Cotton   na           -60         -60        +860    na
                               Silage   -174         -0.7        -1.5       +640    +100,000
MoghanlBileh Savar             Cotton   -84          -.03        -4.8       +I 13   +790
                               Soya     -176         0           -3.0       +920    +I,000,000
Tajan/Joibar                   Rice     -27         -1.8         Not used   +503    +2,650,000
Taian/Sari                     Rice     -225        0            -2.1       +404   +I .500.000

Source: Liaison Office of MoJA and Yekom Consulting Engineers, December 2003

45.     Based on monitoring results conducted for the ICR, the increase innet farm income
ranges from 40 percent to over 200 percent (Table 5). While it is clear that much o f this
increasemay be attributed to the project based on farmers' feedback, the effects o f overall
improvements inthe economy on farming are unknown because o f the lack o f control sites
and monitoringto determine "without project" trends and exogenous influences (para 32).

                                                   16


 Table 5: Farm incomes increased

 Subproject           Before Project      After Project       Increase projected Increase at the
                      (Rials `000)        (Rials `000)        in SAR (%)         end
                                                                                 of the project (YA)
 Behbahan             8,400               29,500              153                251
 Moghan               17,100              36,000              153                110
 Zirrineh Roud        3,500               11,100              346                217
 Taian                7,200               10,100              165                40

 Source: ICR. Annex 7

 Objective3: Capacityimprovementsofsector organizationswasgood at thelocallevel
 butpoor centralcoordinationremainsan issue

 46.      The project provided extensive overseas and local training to improve the capacity of
 sector organizations' capacity as well as providing buildingsand vehicles to subproject
 management facilities - a major issue given Iran's political isolation. As with environmental
 activities, training was initially given a low priority inthe budget allocation process and
 many proposals were delayed or cancelled by the Budget and Planning Office o f the Ministry
 o f Finance. The MoE did not fully utilize the opportunities available to improve
management, engineeringand other technical courses -only 522 staffparticipated against
the 877 planned - and the proposed intemationalshort courses inIranand overseas study
tours were cancelled. Conversely, the central level MoJA staff attended 80 percent more
local short-courses than planned. Like MoE, however, they cut back on overseas fellowships
althoughthey didundertake six study tours. Most importantly, MoJA increased the number
o f local short courses for subproject staff inthe regional offices and utilized 108 staff months
on overseas short courses.

47.       The feedback to the OED missionwas that these courses -particularly those in
agriculture -made a very important contribution to updatingparticipants on advances in
technical, engineering, and managerial knowledge outside Iran. However, the focus of
training and courses was primarily technical and followed the distinctly different interests o f
the M o E andMoJA. The attention given to the cross-cutting and comprehensive water
management issues that involve the social sciences and environmentalmanagement was
minimal. Consequently, capacity-building did little to foster a more coherent approach to
agriculture and water management or facilitate better coordinated planning at the central
level betweenMoE and MoJA.


Efficiency

48.      Overall efficiency is rated substantial. The counterfactual was modified duringthe
ex-post ICR economic analysis by dropping the assumption that agricultural productivity
would have continued to decline inthe absence o f the project; MoJA data showed that yields
remained stable. Onthis assumption and taking account o f agricultural productivity increases
observed (but not water savings or other environmental impacts), the weighted average
economic rate of returnover 25 years was estimated to be about 16 percent. The efficiency o f

                                                 17


  the Zarrineh Roud subproject i s modest at best. It had the lowest ERR o f about 7 percent
 because o f the extensive concrete liningo f most irrigation canals by MoE. However,
  extensive water savings (which were not taken into account inthe ERR)will have significant
  and positive environmental benefits on the Lake Umriah ecosystem. Behbahan is modestly
  economic at about 9 percent primarily because o f its constrained water supply. Moghan and
  Tijan subprojects had ERRSo f 22 and 23 percent respectively. However, the Tijan ERR was
 bolstered by inclusion o f the benefits o f improved extension by the project over 21,000 ha o f
 rainfed area.


 InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

 49.      Institutionaldevelopmentimpactis ratedas modest. While the performance o f
 field-based organizations and formation o f farmers' and water users' groups was excellent,
 capacity-building did little to foster a more coherent approach to agriculture and water
 management or facilitate better coordinated planning at the central level between the
 Ministries o f Energy and the Ministryo f Jihad and Agriculture. Attention given by these
 organizations to cross-cutting and comprehensive water management issues that involve
 social concems and environmental management remains minimal.

 50.      Participatorywater managementwas successfullyintroducedbut is fragile.
 Before the project, farmers were individuallybilled for water by the Provincial Water
 Authorities (PWAs) through their operational management companies that covered about a
 thirdo fprojects classified as modern. OMCs were only accountable to the PWA; their
 income was derived from the center, not the users; and they were only concemed with O&M
 o f the primary and secondary distribution systems. Water fees collected were submitted to
 the central treasury. As noted above (para. 39), there were few incentives for water economy.
 As a result, agricultural production was riskybecause water supplies were irregular and
 sometimes short. Inaddition, some water user groups were reestablished to replace
traditional water groups that had become defunct as modem concrete systems required
nothing from them. Also many believed fees paid to OMCs covered the whole system and
therefore were unwilling to do operation and maintenance activities.

51.      The project addressed these problems intwo ways. First, it set up pilot water user
groups inthe Bebahan and Tajan subprojects. Second, the relationship between the OMCs
and the WUGs and farmers' representatives was made more participatory with
representatives o f the latter groups being representedon various O M C committees. Inthe
north, at Tajan, seven WUGs covering the newly irrigated area o f 647 hecatares have formed
the NomounehTajan Water Users Cooperative Company; another 130 WUGs cover 7,763
hectares o f rehabilitated irrigation systems. Inthe southwest, nine WUGs covering 650
hectares have formed the Behbahan Water Users Cooperative Company. Bothwater user
consumer cooperatives (WUCCs) have legal status and are active. Because both groups
formed late inthe subprojects, they were not involved ineither the planning or
implementation stage and still look to government for leadership.

52.      The Behbahan WUCC, established since 2001, has legally enforceable contracts with
each o f its 161 members for the delivery o f water it receives from O M C and it collects their
fees for OMC. Interviewed farmers report that the WUCC committee works well intheir

                                                      18


 interests. Farmers were very happy with the improvements brought by the project, especially
 the 8,000 hectares o f land leveling and consolidation, and were very positive about the
 impact o f the improved agricultural extension service brought about by consultants training
 M o J A staff who, inturn, trained farmers. A major problem experienced by the WUCC
 committee interms o f upgrading knowledge and management i s that only about 20 percent o f
 farmers have education above the primary level.

 53.     At Behbahan, the WUCC perceives that, incontrast to MoJA, the MoE (represented
 bythe KhudastanWater and Power Authority, KWPA) has no interest intheir concems.
 Water shortages from the secondary canal have led to some unresolved disputes inthe tail-
 end areas. Complaints to MoJA are referred to the KWPA andnothinghappens -this appears
 to be a symptom o f poor cooperation between the two ministries. An informal agreement
 between the W U C C and operation and maintenance company on a share (10 to 15 percent) o f
 irrigation fees to pay for tertiary-level O&M activities fell through because the Regional
 Water Company would not authorize it. While a way around this problemhas been
 temporarily negotiated, it has undercut the Behbahan WUCC's trust inthe KWPA.

 54.     Inthe Tajan subproject, the working relationship with the MazandaranProvince
 operation and maintenance company (MWPA) seems more one o f equals. Inexchange for a
 50-year O&M contact, the MWPA has authorized a 15 percent fee to the NomounehTajan
 WUCC for O&M services andhas given them a 20 percent discount on repayment of capital
 investment costs. Ineach o f its three years o f operation the WUCC has collected 100percent
 o f the water fee. Revenue from all the WUGs within Tajan, however, is not quite as good. In
 2001 it was 65 percent o f billings, 70 percent in2002, and 90 percent is expected in2003.

 55.     Ineach o fthe three subprojects visited, irrigation fees cover about three-quarters o f
the total O&M expenses, the balance being subsidized by the government through MoE.
However, water fees could be increasedwithout hardship to farmers and cover full O&M
costs. The revealed preference o f a randomly selected farmer, farmer Ali Asan (Box l),
shows that he i s willing to pay more than three times the official irrigationtariff.


Box 1. Farmers are willing to cover full costs of operation and maintenance

In Tajan, Ali Asan farms 3.5 hectares of which 3 hectares lies outside the subproject area and the
irrigation this provides. The half hectare inside i s planted with rice that yields about 4 tonha and on
which he pays a 200,000 Rials (US$25) water fee. He irrigates the 3 hectares outside the subproject
area from his own 25-meter deep centrifugally-pumped tubewell that cost 5 millionRials to construct,
has a life o f 5 years, and costs 2.5 millionRials a year to run.H e total annual costs are therefore about
3.5 million Rials or about 1.2 million Rialdha. He grows orchards, cotton, and vegetables on this
land. If he had been billed for receiving water from the subproject he would have paid between
208,000 Rials/ha for cotton and 483,000 Rials/ha for orchard - on average about 300,000 Rialsha.
Thus, his revealed preference is that he is prepared to pay three times the official irrigation tariff for
surface water -providing the supply i s as reliable as his well water.
InterviewDecember 8,2004.



56.      Agricultural extension was rejuvenated and reorganized. In2001, the government
merged the Ministryo f Jihad and the Ministry o f Agriculture. Thus animal services, forest

                                                        19


 fisheries, and natural resources formerly under the MoJ merged with the crops and
 horticulture services provide by the Ministry o f Agriculture (MOA).Subsequently, in2002,
 the MoJA completely reorganized and decentralized research and extension to reduce the
 dominance o f research and give more prominence to extension. Under these changes it i s
 expected that program development will shift from central to provincial level and that
 researchwill become more aligned to farmers' needs. The intention is that field-level
 committees would feed back demand-led research proposals to the provincial programming
 committees. Inturn, this would feed upwards into a national policy committee as appropriate.

 57.      Interviews by OED show that these organizational changes are hard to discern inthe
 field. Research still dominates and receives the lion's share o f budget - some 5,200
 professional staff conduct over 3,000 research activities under 28 national institutes, 53
 researchcenters, and 360 research stations and farms. Most o f the project's funds went into
 equipping research stations and farms and training - and that was at the very end o f the
 project. At the field level, scientific staff are hard to retain because o f relatively poor
 conditions for families, inadequate transport, and uncertain budgets. Lack o f email and
 computers curtails effective networking and development o f synergy from local research.
 While there were significant improvements linkingresearch to extension to farmers inthe
pilot projects, it i s unclear how far this i s being replicated on a larger scale.

 58.      An integrated approach to water resources management is lacking. The
coordination difficulties experienced inimplementing this project remain. Key organizations
-MoE,MoJA, andDOEcontinuetoactindependentlyonkeywaterresourcesmanagement
and conservation issues at the central level. Inthe provinces, there is a more collegial
approach, but M o E and its engineering focus dominates.


Sustainability

59.       Sustainability is likely. Infrastructure engineering and design is o f highquality and
           Farmers are highly motivated because o f their increased incomes and willingly
cooperate with M o E and M o J A on operation and maintenance. Unlikemany countries, the
OED mission saw no tampering or damage to water regulation and diversion structures.
Water fees are sufficient to cover 60 to 80 percent o f the actual operation and maintenance
costs, the balance being met by subsidies from the center. Realized billings exceed 80 percent
inall the subprojects visited and it is reported that they are 100percent inthe Mogham
subproject. The Operation and Maintenance Companies are effective intheir task. Water
users' and farmers' groups are successfully managing the operation and maintenance o f
tertiary irrigation canals.




23. There is one exception. Inthe Berbahan subproject a section o f the main canal (not built by the project) built
over gypsiferous soils and strata collapsed and disrupted irrigation supplies to 4,000 ha assisted by the project.
This is currently under repair.

                                                 20


 OVERALLBANKAND BORROWER              PERFORMANCE

 60.      Bank performance i s rated as satisfactory for both projects. Technical design was
 sound and appropriate, particularly for the Tehran drainage project. More attention could
 have been given to broader issues o f water resources management and conservation, on
 which irrigation depends. However, appraisal o f both projects was hampered by the Bank's
 inexperience inIran and inadequateknowledge o fthe implementing agencies. At appraisal,
 the Bank seemed unaware o f the external perception o f highrisks for foreign involvement in
 Iran and its insistence on international competitive biddingwas problematic and adversely
 affected realistic procurement planning. There was clearly a breakdown o f understanding
 over the study of municipal finances, but technical assistance for tunneling was at the right
 level and appropriate given high local capacity. Inthe irrigationproject there was almost no
 consultation with proposed project beneficiaries and the process was very top-down. The
 Bank over-estimated the implementing agencies' willingness to cooperate and coordinate in
 the irrigation sector and underestimated needed support for environmental management. The
 Bank should have been more demanding o f the borrower, particularly for the irrigation
 project. Following its thorough mid-termreview, duringwhich most o f the initial
 shortcomings were addressed, implementation significantly improved and led to a successful
 outcome. The reintroduction o f water user groups for modern irrigation was very successful,
 as were the pilots to introduce better on-farm water management and agronomic practice.
 Thus, on balance, the Bank's performance i s rated satisfactory.

 61.      Borrower performance was uneven in both projects; overall it is rated
 satisfactory, but only marginally so. The Tehran Drainage project had strong ownership,
 except on issues o f municipal finances. Counterpart funding was both timely and adequate,
as was procurement. On balance, borrower performance was marginally satisfactory because
o f the unwillingness to reform finances.

62.        While project correspondence indicates initial highborrower ownership o f irrigation
project objectives, once the project was approved it became the hostage o f the central budget
organization that had not been involved ineither project identification or appraisal. Inpart,
the budget and planning organization's position was the result o f a substantial increase in
rehabilitated or new irrigation and drainage projects, which rose from 90 in 1988 to 230 in
1997.This lack o f strategic targeting spread financial resources too thinly and, thus, the first
few years o f implementation were dominated by a lack o f adequate counterpart funding and
serious procurement delays over procedural issues. This was exacerbatedby a highturnover
o f key staff inthe M o E and M o J A and very poor central coordination. BothM o E and M o J A
were unable to see beyond their own areas o f interest (primarily engineering and agriculture)
and, as a result, environmental aspects o f the project were sidelined and starved o f funding.
Performance within the M o E and MoJA and their provincial agencies improved duringthe
life o f the project andboth eventually delivered good quality products, meeting most major
engineering, agricultural, and development objectives. At the provincial level, project
ownership i s high and staff are generally effective.

                                                    21


  4. Findingsand Lessons

  Findings

  63.     The Tehran Drainage and Irrigation Improvements Projects supported the
  government's resolve to address water resources and environmental management inIranand
  devolve management to provinces and beneficiaries. While there were significant advances
 inthe provisionofwell-engineered infrastructure to managewater, andthe creation of
 institutions to operate and maintain irrigation facilities, the projects only covered about 20
 percent o f the areas requiring good water management, and much remains to be done. The
 two biggest problems highlighted by the Bank's experience are a lack o f comprehensive and
 integratedplanning and management o f Iran's water resources, and insufficient attention to
 water conservation and pricing. Water conservation inparticular requires more attention to
 awareness raising at the center andprovincial level, and through greater involvement o f
 beneficiaries inwater planning decisions at the field level.

 64.      The lack o f a comprehensive approach means that water resources management i s
 dominated by hydroelectric power and irrigation organizations and that there i s little attention
 to identifying environmental requirements and conserving water. Not only do these
 organizations control water resources planning, they all implement projects, manage cost
 recovery, and regulate. There are clear conflicts o f interest and duplication o f effort. In
 Tehran, this means that the drainage master plan remains unintegrated ina regional water
 strategy and that opportunities to conserve water and minimize costs are ignored. Indeed, the
 M o E is independently trying to address the problem o f highgroundwater levels through
 installation o f drainage wells when there i s spare capacity inthe main collector drain
 constructed by the municipality. Although Tehran's drainage water i s proposed for
 agriculture, neither the need for water treatment nor coordination with the M o J A has been
 thought necessary.

 65.     Inthe irrigation sector, neither MoE nor MoJA show muchconcern for the
environmental impact o f their projects or related ago-ecological issues. Not only does this
lead to inefficient water allocation and use, it diverts attention from watershed management.
Current overgrazing o f rangelands, deforestation, and cultivation o fmarginal lands i s
threatening both water conservation and increasing the risks o f flooding, soil erosion, and
loss o f wetland resources. The government set up a High Council for Water in2001 to
facilitate creation o f institutions for better national water management -perhaps even a
separate Ministryfor Water -but, to date, this has been successfully resisted by the M o E as
it has the most to lose.

66.      Iran is a water-short country and the projects demonstrated there are ample
opportunities for water conservation. Currently, 92 percent o f Iran's developed water
resources are usedfor irrigation, and slightly under half, 3 million hectares, is managed by
the M o E through an extensive network o f diversion dams and reservoirs to supply modem
irrigation to 1.6 millionhectares. Within this area, the M o J A i s actively constructing tertiary
irrigation systems to cover 0.7 millionhectares and undertaking on-farm development o n 0.4
million hectares. Clearly the Bank's Iran experience shows that the first priority is to improve

                                                  22


irrigation infrastructure inexisting projects to increase conveyance efficiency. A second
priority i s to attend to land constraints - land consolidation and leveling - and expand
agricultural extension services to disseminate water conserving practices developed on the
pilot farms. However, untilpricing incentives to improve water conservation are taken
seriously by policymakers, any progress is unlikely.

67.      The Bank's Interim Assistance Strategy (IAS) o f M a y 2001 supported the
government's stated priorities o f economic reforms, social protection, environmental and
natural resource management. The I A S advocated a comprehensive river basin approach to
water resource management and attention to improving the O&M efficiency o f the rural and
urban hydraulic infrastructure. Inresponse, the MENA region is preparing an FY05 project
to introduce an integrated river basin approach to land and water resources management in
the Alborz river basin o f Mazandaran province, where the Government o f Iran is currently
constructing a medium-sized dam. Issues to be addressed include watershed management,
inter-sectoral water conflicts inground and surface water usage, extended support for water
user groups, and environmental and social assessment.

68.      The government was very positive about the Bank's ability and comparative
advantage on knowledge transfer and institutional capacity building. They want more o f this
assistance, especially inintegrated water resources management at the basin level and in
environment and social assessment. From the Bank's side, the combination o f technical
assistance and investments would provide the opportunity to develop its status as a
knowledge institution inline with the Bank's Water Resources Sector Strategy (2003). The
preparation o f the proposed project is fully consistent with the objectives outlined inthe
Country Water Resources Assistance Strategy and the Urban Water Supply and Sanitation
Project under preparation.


Lessons

69.      Experience with this project confirms a number of OED lessons:

    It is essential to understandsector institutions, their governance, incentive structures, and
    interrelationships before finalizing an investment operation. A first step i s to ensure that
    all stakeholders are identified and participate inproject design. Failure to do so risks that
    some objectives will not be fully owned and that lack o f cooperation among key
    organizations willjeopardize their achievement.

    Whatever water infrastructure i s provided or improved, a fundamental requirement for
    sustainability i s buildingadequate technical and beneficiary capacity to allow integrated
    operation and maintenance and a dispute resolution mechanism. This is particularly
    important when management is devolved hierarchically and separated between a public
    service provider and private users groups.

   Many countries have excellent human and technical resources, particularly inthe private
    sector, and good project design needs to carefully balance the type, scale, and use o f
   external and internal consultants. Too much foreign technical assistance undermines local
   ownership and causes resentment; too little risks inadequate capacity-building.

                                             23


0 Water conservation is difficult to achieve ifthe water fee structure i s not linked to
  volumes o f water used. Inturn this requires investment inwater measurement,
  monitoring and recording equipment and a willingness to abandon the crop and area basis
  for charging, as it provides no incentive to farmers to conserve water.


                                             25                                                  Annex A


 Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

 IRAN: TEHERANDRAINAGEPROJECT(LOAN 3479)



                                                Appraisal           Actual or           Actual as % of
                                                 estimate       current estimate      appraisal estimate

 Total project costs                               95.6               111.3                   116
 Loan amount                                       77.0                77.0                   100
 Cofinancing
 Cancellation


 CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
                          FY93      FY94  FY95      FY96       FY97       FY98     FY99       FVOO     F Y O l

 Appraisal estimate         0.3     19.2  41.9      66.5       75.4       76.8     77.0       77.0     77.0
 (US$M)
 Actual (US$M)                                       4.4       18.4       35.0     54.6       73.3     77.0
 Actual as % of                                        6        24         45      70          95       100
 appraisal
~                     ~        ~      -   -      "
 Date of final disbursement: 6/30/2001




                                                        Oriainal                        Actual

 PCD                                                                                    9113/91
 Appraisal                                                                               2/3/92
 Board approval                                                                         5/28/92
 Effectiveness                                          8/4/92                          10/30/92
 MTR                                                    3115/95                         6/22/96
 Closing date                                           12/31/98                        12/31/00




           Stage of Project Cycle                           ActualILatest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                      US$ (`000)
    IdentificationIPreparation                      18.8                            55,000
   AppraisaVNegotiation                             14.1                            44,500
   Supervision                                      95.7                           326,400
   ICR                                                7.0                           25,000
   Total                                           135.6                           450,000

                                      26                                                 Annex A


Mission Data
Stage of Projectsyde-                                                       -~     PetformanceRating
                                 Count            Specialty                   Implementation  Development
                     MonthNear                                                  Progress       Objective
 IdentificationlPreparation
                10/91             3    Sanitary Engineer, Financial
                                       Analyst, Tunnel Specialist
                1192              7    2 Sanitary Engineers,
                                       2 Financial Analysts,
                                       1 Economist, 1 Environmentalist, 1
                                       Tunnel Specialist

AppraisallNegotiation
                2/92              7    2 Sanitary Engineers,
                                       2 Financial Analysts,
                                       1 Economist,
                                       1 Environmentalist, 1Tunnel
                                       Specialist
Supervision
                11/92              2   Sanitary Engineer, Tunnel                   S               S
                                       Specialist
                2/93               I   Sanitary Engineer                           S               S
                5/93               I   Sanitary Engineer                           S               S
                8/93               2   Sanitary Engineer, Financial Analyst        S               S
                1194               2   Sanitary Engineer, Financial Analyst        S               S
                9/94              3    Sanitary Engineer, Financial Analyst,       U               S
                                       Economist
                4/95              2    Sanitary Engineer, Financial Analyst        U               S
                12/95             2    Sanitary Engineer, Financial Analyst        U               S
                6/96              2    Financial Analyst, Sanitary Engineer        U               S
                6/97              2    Financial Analyst, Sanitary Engineer        S               S
                11/97             2    Financial Analyst, Sanitary Engineer        S               S
                9198              2    Financial Analyst, Sanitary Engineer        S               S
                12/98             2    Financial Analyst, Sanitary Engineer        S               S
                5/99              2    Financial Analyst, Sanitary Engineer        S               S
                1100              2    Financial Analyst, Sanitary Engineer        S               S
                7/00              2    Sanitary Engineer, Financial Analyst        S               S
                11/00             I    Financial Analyst                           S               S
ICR
                11/00             I    Economist,                                  S               S
                2101              1    Sanitary Engineer                           S               S

                                             27                                                  Annex A


   Other Prqject Data
   Borrower/ExecutingAgency:
  FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
  Operation                                            Loan no.        Amount             Board date
                                                                     (US$ million)
  Teheran Sewerage Project                              4551             145                5118/00
  Water Supply Sanitation Project                                        279                5/25/04
  Environment Management Support Project                4688              20                 4/8/03



  IRAN: IRRIGATIONIMPROVEMENT PROJECT(LOAN 3570)

  Key ProiectData (amounts in US$million)
                                                Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
                                                estimate        current estimate     appraisal estimate
  Total project costs                             311.7              311.7                   100
  Loan amount                                     157.0              157.0                   100
  Cofinancing
  Cancellation


  CumulativeEstimated andActual Disbursements
                          FY94      FY95  FY96     FY97       FY98      FY99      FYOO       FYOl     FY02
-"
 Appraisal estimate       12.4      38.011_-
                                          61.7      84.1      104.8     123.8     138.2      157.0    157.0
  (US$M)
 Actual (US$M)                      0.2   7.4       18.4       39.0     57.2      103.5      152.2    157.0
 Actual as % of                            11        21         37       46        75         96       100
 amraisal
 Date of final disbursement: 12/31/01




-___-                                                   Original                       Actual
 PCD                                                                                   9130191
 Appraisal                                                                             11111/92
 Board approval                                                                        3116/93
 Effectiveness                                          4/29/93                        4/29/93
 MTR                                                    9110197                        3118/98
 Closing date                                           6/30/01                        6/30/01




  Stage of Project Cycle                                   ActuaVLatestEstimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                     US$ (`000)
 Identification/Preparation                         88.8                               92.5
 AppraisallNegotiation                             322.4                           1,311.1
 Supervision
 ICR                                                10.0                               30.0
 Total                                             421.2                           1,433.6

                                                     28                                                     Annex A


 Mission Data
   Stage of Project Cycle                                                                            Performance Rating
                                              Count       Specialty                           lmplementation      Developmt
                           Monthnear                                                              Progress        Objective
    Identification/Preparation
                     Identification:               2     E,A
                     October 1991 11
                     Preparation:                  6     A, IE, WRS, EX, E, ES
                     Jan./Feb. 1992


    AppraisaVNegotiation
                    Pre-Appraisal:                10     IE, OP, ES, A, S, IL, A, IF,
                    June/July 1992                       EC, EX
                    Appraisal: Oct./Nov.          5      IE, OP, ES, A, S
                     1992


   Supervision
                    June/August 1993               5    IE, IE, P. FN, E                              U               U
                    21
                    December 1993                  2    IE, A                                         U               U
                    July 1994                      2    IE, A                                         U               S
                    October 1994                   1    IE                                            U               S
                    April 1995                     2    IE, ES                                        U               U
                    September 1995                 1    DS                                            U               U
                    November 1995                  2    IE, ES                                        U               U
                    June 1996                      3    IE, A, ES                                     U               S
                    December 1996                 2     A, EX                                         U               S
                    May 1997                      5     OP, IE,A, ES, M&E                             S               S
                    November 1997                 2     IE, ES                                        U               S
                    March 1998 (MTR)              5     IE,A, IE, A, E                                S               S
                    November 1998                 6     IE, A, ES, IE, A, P                           U               S
                    April 1999                    5     IE, DR,A, A, ES                               S               S
                    January 2000                  6     IE, IE, DR, ES, P, A                          S               S
                   June 2000                      3     IE,A, E                                       S               S
                    November 2000                 3     IE, IE, DR                                    S               S
   ICR
                   June. 2001                     2      E. A                                         S               S


AE = Agricultural Economist; E = Economist; EC = Ecologist; ES = Environmental Specialist;
IL = Institutional Legal Expert; S = Sociologist; OP = Operations Officer; P = Procurement Specialist;
IE = Irrigation Engineer; A = Agronomist; DS = Dams Specialist; EX = Extension Specialist;
M&E = Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist; DR = Drainage Specialist; WRS =Water Resources Specialist
I / A joint WB/FAO-CP mission, composed of an Economist and an Agronomist, took place in July 1991 to agree
with the GO1on the concept of an Irrigation Rehabilitation Project.
21 Including project launch workshop

                                        29                                       Annex A


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ONOPERATIONS
Operation                                   Credit no.    Amount          Board date
                                                        (US$ million)
Alborz IntegratedLand &Water Management                    120         01/2005 (proposed)


                                                          31                                      Annex B


Annex B. Iran: Teheran Drainage Project (Loan 3479)


Actual ProjectCosts (local and foreign costs) for different componentsof the

                                    costs us $                  costs US$                   Total Costs
  Project                           (financed by                (Financed by                us $
        _"
         ,,-,,,.I,                  the World Bank)
                                             __l_--.lll.--      ~ - . .
                                                                Municipality)             I

   Tunnel 1           ~    ,,,x     10,241,271                  6,011,784
                                                                       l__,                 16,253,056
   Tunnel 2                         26,023,764                  6,765,458                   32,789,222
   Tunnel 3                         12,946,348                  5,305,881                   18,252,229
   Pipeline                         7,429,463                   4,775,107    ,              12,204,570
   Retention Reservoir              5,029,375                   3,282,166                   8,311,541
  Northern Head Branches            8,346,114                   5,564,076                   13,910,190
  Supervision (Consultant)          3,077,243                   1,374,950                   4,452,193
  T.B.M.                            3,906,421                                               3,906,421
  Total                            77,000,000                   33,079,422                  110,079,422
-_=---*                         --                        -
                                                                                -*(-x_-



Source: Govemmentof the Islamic Republicof Iran

Note: Source The detailed costs given in the above table differ slightly from those presented in the
Preface and Annex A that are derived from the World Bank's databases.

                                   32                               Annex B


EconomicRate of Return(Rls millions)
              Year           95     96     97     98     99    2000 2001-2027
costs
Civil works
Tunnel 1                    4,386  9,649  8,772  3,216 3,216    0
Tunnel 2&3                  1,584  7,394  7,394 19,276 11,619 5,545
Pipeline & Reservoir          0      0      0   14,421 14,421 13,572
Northern head branches        0      0      0    307   2,071  28,298
Supervision (Consultant)     344   898    841    1,576  1,409 2,574
Operation & Maintenance       0      0      0      0      0   2,160   2,160
Total costs(Economic        4325  12289  11649  26575  22423  35723   1480
Cost)
Benefits
Khayam area of Tehran
Buildings                                                      1273   8487
Stocks                                                          76    508
Bridges, sidewalks, streets                                    227    1515
Telephone infrastructure                                        85    568
Sedimentation, debris                                           77    512
removal
Time spent, prep. & clean-                                     243    1617

UP
Traffic distribution                                           1415   9437
Railway station damage                                         107    711
Total benefits, Khayam                                         2230  23354
Shahr-E-Ray
Buildings                                                      1844  12293
Stocks                                                          77    513
Bridges, sidewalks, streets                                    547    3650
Telephone infrastructure                                        44    296
Sedimentation, debris                                          107    711
removal
Time spent, prep. & clean-                                      79    527
UP
Traffic distribution                                            69    461
Properties near canal                                          221    1472
Total benefits, Shahr- e-                                      2988  19922
Ray
Total benefits                                                 3914  32457
Net benefits                -4325 -12289 -11649 -26575 -22423 -37809 30978
Economic Rate of Return     20%

                                     33                         Annex C


 Annex C.Iran: IrrigationImprovementProject(Loan3570)


 Performance Indicators (MOJA)
 Indicators
          i.-_.ll  ----        - ~    - ~ - -  SAR        Actual
A. input indicators
 Total number of contracts                       12         12
 Total disbursement (%)                          44         53
 Counterpart funds                               na         na
     (Rials billion/US$ million)

B. Output indicators
 Number of hectares improved                     na       32,900
 Number of research themes undertaken            na        716
 Number of demo plots                            na        956
 Number of farmers
      Total farmers                           46,000      33,500
      Farmers reached by extension               na       33,500
 Training
     Number of programs                          na       4,620
     Number of participants                     na        92,400
Cropping intensity (%)
     Behbahan                                   112        129
     Moghan                                     122        138




PerformanceIndicators (MOE)
Indicators                                  SAR           Actual
A. Input indicators
Disbursement (%)                            100            100
Counterpart Funds (%)                       100            100
Number of contracts awarded
      Works                                  14             14
     Goods                                    8             7
     Consultancy                              7             7
Contract Value (Rials billion)              385            385

B. Output Indicators
Civil Works
    Length of rehabilitated                 1,132          601
          and new canals (km)
    Length of rehabilitated                 854            504
         And new drains (km)
Areas improved (ha)                    58,000 (at MTR)    54,500
Value of goods purchased                      1            11
    (US$ million)
Training programs
    Number of programs                      81             55
    Number of participants                 1,100          1,100
Studies
    Number of studies contracted             7             11

                                        34                               Annex C


MOE Training Programs
Type of training               Programs    Programs       Number of Participants
                               Proposed    Completed     Proposed      attended
Category I
--- Seminars and workshops           5         2           200             90
    Management courses              18         18          200            118
-- Technical courses
    Engineering courses             24         24          250            218
                                    12         11          220             89
    M. SC.                           -
                                     7                      7              7
        Sub-total                   66         55          877            522

Category II & Ill
combined
- International short                8                     160
- courses study tours
           in Iran
   Overseas                          7                      70




MOA Training Programs
       Type of training             Unit    SAR estimates MTR       Actual
Central Level
Local short-courses                 S/m          120       150        220
Overseas short-courses              S/m          170       188        129
Fellowships                         Sly          24        32          7
Workshops                           No           60        70         46
Study Tours                         No            0         6          6
Sub-projects level
Local short-courses                 S/m          460       460        500
Overseas short-courses              S/m          180       172        108
Fellowships MOJA&MOE                Sly          55        71          2
Workshops                           No           116       96         59

S/m = staff months; Sly = staff years.

