7- /V}            C! (/    Lè    / J
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OI'TICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10480-IRN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
MAY 5, 1992
Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of May 1992)
US$ 1.00    =      Rls 70 V
Rls 1.00    =      US$ 0.0143 V
US$ 1.00    =      Rls 1,400 2/
Rls 1.00           US$ 0.00007 2/
US$ 1.00           Rls 600 3/
Rls 1.00    =      US$ 0.00167 2/
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENT
1 millimeter (mm)                             0.04 inches
1 centimeter (cm)                     =       0.394 incl'es
1 meter (m)                           =       3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                      -       0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (kM2)                      0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                        =       2.47 acres
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)   =        35.310 cubic feet per second
1 million cubic meters (MCM)          =      35.310 million cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CW       -  Civil Works
DC       =  Direct Contracting
EDO      =  Engineering and Development Organization
ERR      -  Economic Rate of Return
GDP      =  Gross Domestic Product
GOI      =  Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran
IBRD     =  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      =  International Competitive Bidding
IFC      =  International Finance Corporation
IS       =  International Shopping
LCB      =  Local Competitive Bidding
MEF      =  Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
PIU      =  Project Implementation Unit
Rls      =  Iranian Rials
SOE      =  Statement of Expenditures
SW       -  Staff-weeks
TECO     =  Technical & Engineering Consulting Organization
TDE      =  Technical and Development Executive
TM       =  Tehran Municipality
FISCAL YEAR
March 21 - March 20
Official Exchange Rate.
Floating Exchange Rate for Free Market Imports.
Competitive Exchange Rate for a Selected List of Imports.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TEHRAN DARATIG  PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(i)
I.     INTRODUCTION
General  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .
Provision of Urban Drainage..
Government Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          2
Rationale for Bank Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          2
II.    THE PROJECT AREA
General  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Physical Setting   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          3
Existing Urban Drainage ................. . .                                          4
Flooding Problems  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         4
Flood Damage   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  5
III.   THE PROJECT
Project Origin   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         6
Project Objectives   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  6
Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         6
Status of Project Preparation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         7
Project Cost and Financing   ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  7
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          9
Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        10
Project Supervision ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  12
IV.    THE BORROWER AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
The Borrower   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Duties and Responsibilities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        14
Organization and Staffing  . . . . .                . . . . . . . . . . .             14
Management and Administration ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  15
The Project Implementing Agency  ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  16
Project Management   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  16
V.     FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Overview   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        18
Financial Managemeitt   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         18
Financial Situation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         20
Future Financial Performance   ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  21
Accounts and Audits  ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
PFage No.
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Least-Cost ALternative  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     24
Project  Benefits    .  .  .  .  .  .     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   ...  24
Environmental and Social Impact ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
Economic Justification  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  26
Project Risks ......e.....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
Acqui.sition of Private Property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . .     29
ANNEXERS 
1.   Tehran Drainage Master Plan and Proposed Project
2.   Cost Tables and Financing Plan
3.   Disbursements
4.   Project Implementation Schedule
5.   Project Supervision Forecast
6.   Project Implementation Program and Monitoring Indicators
7.   Tehran Municipality Organizational Chart
8.   Supporting Consulting Services
9.   Tehran Municipality Financial Data
10.  Economic Analysis
11.  Environmental Analysis
12.  Selected Documents in Project Files
Map No. IBRD 23587 Project Area
Map No. IBRD 23588 Project Location
Approving Regional Vice President:  Mr. Caio Kcch-Weser
Vice President
Approving Director:                Mr. Ram K. Chopra
Director
Approving Division Chief:          Mr. Alastair J. McKechnie
Division Chief
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Iran from February 15 to March 8, 1992. Mission members included Messrs.
Mario A. Zelaya (Task Manager), Arun Banerjee (Senior Operations Officer), Dr.
Ernst BuchL (Consultant) and Mies. Ann Elwan (Senior Economist), Hoveida
Nobakht (Operations Assistant). Peer Reviewers: Messrs. Willem van _1ijl
(EMTAG) and Lars Rasmusson (MN2IN).



ISLAMIC REIUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:     Tehran Municipality
-uaranto:    Islamic Republic of Iran
Beneficiary:  Tehran Municipality
Amount:       US$77 million equivalent
Ter,ms:       17 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate
Proiect:      The objectives of the proposed project are to: (i) provide
DescriWOj  :  stormwater drainage to divert flood waters away from flood-prone
areas of the city for the protection of human life and property;
(ii) transfer appropriate technology for the construction of
tunnels; and (iii) strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Tehran Municipality. The proposed project consists of: (i) an
interceptor and outfall system (Third Outlet) consisting of a
6.3 km tunnel, a 1.6 km open channel, a stormwater retention
reservoir and a 6 km pipe; (ii) a main drain (Khayam Main Drain)
consisting of a 10.8 km tunnel and a 3.7 km pipe; (iii)
provisions for inlet structures and lateral drains; (iv)
provisions for maintenance equipment and spares; (v) the
provision of technical assistance for construction management
and for improving the financial planning and management of the
municipality; and (vi) the acquisition of property and
easements.
Benefits:     The project will yield positive environmental and social
alld Risks:    benefits associated with the reduction of health hazards posed
by flood aftermath and risks to human life. It will benefit
low-income families residing in flood-prone areas who suffer
substantial material losses annually as a result of f'loods. The
main risk will be delays in project implementation due to the
long hiatus in the Bank's working relationship with the country.
However, this concern is being addressed by providing the
necessary expatriate technical assistance and by conducting Bank
seminars on procurement, disbursement and overall project
implementation. Risks associated with floods, wbich may occur
during construction, are being addressed through proper design
and construction measures and close supervision. To reduce
risks associated with the Municipality's finances, technical
assistance will be provided on financial planning and
management.



i li
Estimated P2Joect Coat:
Component                               Local      Foreign,    Total
------- US$ million ------
Khayam Drain Pipe                        0.8         0.5        1.3
Khayam Tunnel                            4.1        31.5       35.6
3rd Outlet Tunnel                        4.7        27.1       31.8
3rd Outlet Channel                       0.4         0.2        0.6
3rd Outlet Pipe                          1.4         0.6        2.0
Storage Reservoir.                       0.2         0.1        0.3
Lateral Drains                           0.5         0.3        0.8
Miscellaneous Structures                 0.1        0.910.
Subtotal, Civil Works                   12.2        60.4       72.6
Land Acquisition                         0.1         0.0        0.1
Equipment & Vehicle                      0.1         0.5        0.6
Project Management                       0.2         1.4        1.6
Technical Assistant                     0.5          1.1       -L6
Total Base Cost                         13.1        63.4       76.5
Contineencies:
Physical                                 1.3         6.3        7.6
Price                                   JLI          7.3       11.5
Total Cost                              18.6        77.0       95.6
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreig      Total
-------- US$ million -----
Government                              18.6                   18.6
IBRD                                     -           7.LQ      7,7.0
Total Financing                         18.6        77.0       95.6
Estimated Dizburssments:
IBRD Fiscal Year
1993    1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Annual                        4.6    19.2   24.2   25.0    3.2    0.4    0.4
Cumulative                    4.6    23.8   48.0   73.0   76.2   76.6   77.0
Rate of Return:   23 percent
Maps: IBRD No. 23587, 23588



ISLAMIC RPUBLIC OE JUN
TEWR DINAGE PRM JCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. IMQP UCTIQE
General
1.01        The Islamic Republic of Iran has an area of 1.6 million square
kilometers (ki2).  Administratively, the country is divided into 24 provine-V.
Iran's population is about 57 million and growing at an annual rate .  3.2
percent. It is a middle-income oil exporting country with an estimated GN!
per capita equivalent to US$2,450 (1990).
1.02        Iran's economic performance during the last decade was mixed, with
growth at around 8 percent per annum in the first half of the decade followed
by a distinct slowdown as a result of the virtual collapse of oil prices, and
severe damage to oil production and export fscilities. Before the decade
closed, Iran began liberalizing the economy, thus laying the basis for the
impressive economic recovery now taking place.
1.03        Since 1988/89, GDP growth has picked up and has been strong: 4
percent in 1989 and an estimated 10 percent in 1990. At the same time the
economy has stabilized considerably, helped in 1990 partly by the fortuitous
increase in oil prices. The government deficit came down from about 9 percent
of GDP in 1988, to 4 percent in 1989, and to an estimated 2 percent in 1990.
As a result of lower deficits, the growth of net credit to the Government and,
correspondingly, that of broad money declined between 1988 and 1990, helping
to Lower inflation, from 20 percent in 1988, to 17 percent in 1989, to around
10 percent in 1990.
ProyisLin of Urban Drainage
1.04        The provision of urban drainage is the responsibility of municipal
governments. Historically, -ities have developed with little comprehensive
planning and thus drainage has developed in a haphazard manner. However,
since the country, except for the Caspian region, is generally characterized
by low rainfall, urban drainage has not been a major concern. For this
reason, cities have been designed with surface drainage systems consisting of
small open channels called "Jubes," which function as street gutters runnis.g
along both sides of streets. Prior to the construction of piped water
systems, jubes were also used for the supply of drinking water taken from
either mountain streams or underground sources called ughanats". These
systems were adequate while cities were small with low population densities,
and before natural drainage ravines had been obstructed by urba.; development.
In cities the size of Tehran, however, these measures are no longer adequate
as flash floods, which occur several times a year, combined with mountain snow
melt, cause significant dAmage to private and public property and
infrastructure and are a threat to human life. Although municipalities are
responsible for the provision of drainage, the Government sometimes intervenes
in the provision of drainage for cities with limited financial resources and
where lives and property have suffered significant losses.



-2-
Government Strategy
1.05        Since the revolution, one of the fundamental policies of the
Gov'.rnmen.. has been to provide assistance to basic infrastrdcture and to
develop support nation-wide to ensure long-term economic gains. In urban
areas, hewever, the Government's strategy has been to entrust all
responsii. ities for providing infrastructure and services within city
boundaries to municipal authorities, and legislation to this effect has
already been enacted.  This policy is also supported by legislation that
enables municipalities to be financially self-sufficient. Government
functions are thus limited to providing only catalytic support through foreign
loan guarantees anci, in exceptional circumstances, through budgetar,
transfers.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.06        The Government of Iran (GOI) is undertaking a major economic
restructuring and reconstruction program to correct economic distortions and
t- restoxe and upgrade infrastructure neglected during the eight-year war or
&-.,&aged by natural disasters (earthquakes and floods). In urban areas,
Co,iernment policy places this responsibility upon municipal governments (para.
1.05). Municipalities, however, are not equipped to implement such a policy
d.,e :o weak administrative capacity for both project planning and
im- Lmentatitn, as well as for managing the increasing responsibilities of
p&-. iding municipa'k services. Although recently enacted legislation would
enable municipalities to mobilize internal resources, financial assistance
would 'te required to cover foreign costs and to manage international
procurement.
1.07        The proposed operation would be the first of its kind to provide
the Tehran municipality, in addition to external currency resources,
assistance in project planning, design and implementation, as well as in
transferring appropriate technology.  Also, since the nature and magnitude of
the proposed works would exceed the capacity of the local construction
industry, assistance would be required for managing international procurement
of major civil works.
1 18        Given the long hiatus in lending to Iran, and considering the
urgent nature of the project, the proposed operation would give the Bank an
opportunity to be responsive to GOI needs while simultaneously deepening its
knowledge of the urban sector in Iran.  In this way, the Bank could develop a
lending strategy focusing on institutional and human resource development and
environment:al planning and management, while reducing infrastructural
constraints to sustainable economic development. During preparation of the
proposed project, Bank assistance has focused on reviewing least-cost
alternatives for tunnel design, construction methods and procurement; on
reviewing social and environmental impacts associated with the proposed works;
and on addressing financial planning and management, revenue enhancement and
the institution building needs of the Tehran Municipality.



II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01        Tehran was established about seven centuries ago (about 1220 A.D)
when the Mongols destroyed Rey, now called Shahr-e-Rey, the former capital
located about five km to the south of the city. Tehran acquired prominence
during the Qajar Dynasty in 1869 A.D. when it was chosen as the capital city;
Today, Tehran expands over an area of about 1,200 km2 and is a bee-hive of
business and industrial activxty. It is connected to the outside world
directly by air and indirectly through land-based linkages (roads and
railways) to the Persian Gulf and to neighboring countries to the north, east
and west.   The population of the city experienced a rapid growth during the
eight-year war with Iraq, primarily the result of immigration. The total
population in the 20 municipal districts increased from about 4.5 million in
1976 to about 6.0 million in 1986, and to about 7.0 million in 1991. The
transient population, commuters and visitors, add an additional 2 million to
that figure.
Physical Setting
2.02        Tgopraphv.  Tehran is located on the southern foothills of the
Alborz mountains and the western slopes of the Sepayeh Mountains. The city is
characterized by steep slopes in the northern area (1 in 20) and mild slopes
in the south (1 in 200), and its elevation ranges from 1,100 m to 1,900 m
above mean sea level.
2.03        Geology.  Tehran is underlain by alluvial deposits, which are
generally well graded, ranging from gravel to clay. The soil formation also
includes boulders of various sizes, some of which are five meters in diameter
and larger. The soil stability is higb, as evidenced by stable excavated
faces and trenches, and the material can be readily excavated by hand or
machine. The alluvial deposits are generally permeable; however, between the
city center and the Alborz mountains, there are outcrops of older deposits
with low permeability due to well cemented soils with high contents of silt
and clay. Groundwater table depth varies from 100 meter in the higher ground
to near the surface in the southern parts of the city.
2.04        Climatg.  The Tehran region is characterized by a Mediterranean
type climate with hot and dry summers and relatively cold winters. Rainfall
in the region generally occurs in the winter and spring resulting from frontal
disturbances associated with low pressure systems moving from the
Mediterranean and Black Sea areas. The average annual rainfall over the north
of Tehran is approximately 400 mm, whereas that over the south of the city is
about 200 mm. Rainfall intensity follows a similar pattern., Average annual
daily precipitation varies from about 44 mm in the high grounds to about 24 mm
in the low lying areas. Rainfall, however, is generally characterize4 by high
intensity and short duration storms (about 20 mm/30 min.).
2.05        Mean monthly temperatures vary from 3.60 C (380 F) in January to
29.60 C (860 F) in July. Msan daily maximum and minimum temoeratures range
from 8.50 C (450 F) to -1.30 C (30.30 F) in January and 36.50 C (97.7∞ F) to
22.70 C (72.80 F) in July, respectively. Relative humidity varies from about



- 4 -
60 percent in winter (December/January) to less than 25 percent in summar
(June-September).
2.06        Generally winds are fairly constant throughout the year from all
different directions. Wind speeds vaxy from 5 to 10 km/hr between midnight
and noon and between 1600 hours and midnight with meximum speeds of up to 25
km./hr between noon and 1600 hours. Annual rotal evaporation rate (Class A
pan) is about 1674 mm with a peak month rate of about 250 mm/month in summeL.
2.07        Hydrogrspj.y.  There are a number of perennial rivers and streams
overflowing the Greater Tehran area. Several ephemeral streams and numerous
small torrents discharge to and, in some cases, through the city. As Tehran
has expanded in a northerly direction, natural streams have been either
blocked by urban development or enclosed. Flash floods, which result from
high intensity and short duration storms combined with steep and rocky slopes
in the watershed of mountain st:eams, have become a major hazard as the
natural drainage streams have been obstructed.
Existing Urban Drainage
2.08        The surface water drainage essentially consists of open channels
called jubes, which run along the curbs of streets and discharge in main
intercepting canals, diverting surface waters to natural drainage ravines.
The method of construction of jubes varies considerably throughout the city.
The majority are formed by either precast concrete sections or cast in situ,
or a combination of both. These are usually free from obstruction except for
driveway culverts and trees that are planted within the channel.  Prior to the
construction of a piped-water supply system, jubes were used to convey water
from mountain streams and ghanats (groundwater infiltration pipes).
2.09        Over the past 15 years, the municipality has been implementing a
drainage master plan, and some tunnels and open channels have already been
built (Annex 1). Other tunnels are under design and construction with the
purpose of collecting surface waters at various intervals to reroute them
outside the city boundaries.
Flooding Problems
2.10       1T   Abe system was not designed as a major surface water drainage
system, and i.  .ny places the downstream sections have reduced hydraulic
capacity.  Yersi ago, while the city was still small, this system functioned
effectively for water supply and surface drainage. However, now that the city
has increased in population density and area--particularly in its growth
toward the north--and natural drainage ravines hazving been replaced with
streets without making provisions for drainage, such a system is inadequate.
The proposed measures consisting of tunnels and open channels to collect and
divert surface waters, when fully implemented, will provide relief to the
extensive flooding of streets, particularly at major intersections, and of low
lying areas in the southern part of the city. Flooding of the northern areas
is less common due to high ground elevation and steep slopes, except for those
areas along former natural drainage ravines, which have been reduced in
capacity by the construction of roads and buildings. Damage to buildings and
infrastructure by water, sediment and boulders -s extensive in these places.



2.11        Because of its location, the town of Shahr-e-Rey to the south of
the city, is subject to flooding whenever there is rain in Tehran. The
sections of Shahr-e-Rey that are near the Firouzabad canal--the main drainage
canal receiving surface water slows from the jube system in central and
western Tehran--are particularly prone to flooding.
2.12        At present, because of the lack of a sewerage Fystem in the Tehran
area, storm water flows contain some domestic sewage and wastewater from
commerce and small industry. Flooding spreads the danger of contamination of
pollutants in the wastewater and is a substantial health risk. These flows
are also used on vegetable crops in the TAh. -n area, constituting a
substantial health risk to consumers.
Flood Damage
2.13        Flash floods occur in the Tebran area with every major rainfall.
Due to the urpredictable nature of these events, the risk to human life is
very high. Deaths associated with flash floods have been reported in some
areas of the city.  Sections of the central part of Tehran (Map No. 23588) are
flooded several times a year; traffic is disrupted for periods averaging about
three hours; and underground utilities, such as telephone and electricity
service, are interrupted for several hours. Economic activity is interrupted
as property owners are occupied in emergency activities, such as filling
sandbags, moving goods and furnitu:re out of danger, and cleaning up sediment
and debris after flood events. The railway station area in south central
Tehran is also subject to flooding several times a year. The municipality's
expenditures on repairs and clean-up costs to remove large amnunts of gravel,
sand and boulders are very high. Although the duration of flooding is
comparatively short, the risk posed to public safety and health, the cost of
public and private property damages, and the interruptions to traffic and
other public services, is unacceptable for a city as large and modern as
Tehran.
2.14        The rapid development of Tehran has resulted in increasingly heavy
flows in the Fir. zabad canal and overspills into the surrounding sections of
Shahr-e-Rey, a low-income historical town to the south of Tehran. Floods
occur 6 or 7 times a year, on average, and cause 5 to 10 hours of total
disruption in the town; they damage buildings, roads, and infrastructure each
time they nccur. They also cause substantial damage to agricultural crops in
the area. rhe Firouzabad canal has been reinforced over a large portion of
its length, and sections i& Shahr-e-Ray are now in underground box culverts.
The canal scructure is seriously eroded, and there has been substantial damage
to numerous buildings along its length. Buildings in top of the underground
box culvert section of the canal, some of them loca.4d within the main large
roundabout in the center of Shahr-e-Rey, are beginning to collapse.



- 6 -
III. THE MOUNT
kro] ect O.ign
3.01        The Ministry Economic Affairs and Finance (MEF) first requested
Bank assistance for the proposed project in May 1991. An identification
mission visited the country in August 1991, during which time agreement was
reached on the composition of the proposed project and the plan of action for
project preparation. Subsequently, two preparation missions visited Iran in
October 1991 and January 1992.
Project Obiectives
3.02        The objectives of the proposed project are to: (') provide storm
water drai.nage to divert flood waters away from flood-prone areas of the city
for the protection of human life and property; (ii) transfer appropriate
technology for the construction of tunnels; and (iii) strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Tehran Municipality through technical assistance
fo; project planning and implementation and for sound municipal finance
management. The project will reduce the health risks posed by sewage
overflows onto streets and will minimize water logging and flooding problems
in the low-income areas to the south of the city.
Prolect Descrigtion
3.03        The proposed project consists of providing a storm water
collection and disposal system in the city of Tehran, which represents a part
of a city-wide drainage infrastructure master plan (Annex 1). The project
includes two major subcomponents; namely, a trunk tunnel (Khayam Main Drain)
along Khayam street; lateral drains and appurtenances, which are required to
intercept rainwater runoff collected in the Jubes in the central part of
Tehran; and a main interceptor and outfall system (Third Outlet) consisting of
a tunnel, an open channel, a retention reservoir and a pipe outfall to the Kan
river. This system will protect the central part of Tehran and the low-lying
areas to the south of the city from frequent floods. The project location and
site specific works are shown in maps I'-RD No. 23587 and IBRD No. 23588.   A
detailed description of the proposed project is given below:
(a)   the provision of a main drainage interceptor and outfall
system, the Third Outlet, consisting of: (i) a 6.3 km
concrete-lined tunnel, 4.80 m inside diameter; (ii) a 1.6 km
trapezoidal shape concrete-lined open channel; (iii) a
600,000 m3 net capacity retention reservoir; (iv) a 6.0 km,
2,000 mm inside diameter reinforced concrete pressure pipe;
and (v) about four diversion structures;
(b)   the provision of a central surface water collector system,
Khayam Main Drain, consisting of: (i) a 10.8 km concrete-
lined tunnel ranging in size from 2.80 to 3.30 m inside
diameter; and (ii) a 3.7 km pipe ranging in size from 1,400
mm to 1,600 mm Inside diameter;



(c)   the provision of a 3.0 km, 1,400 -m inside diameter pipe for
lateral drains; manholes; inlet structures and
appurtenances;
(d)   the provision of maintenance equipment and spares;
(e)   the provision of technical assistance for: (i) construction
management; and (ii) municipal revenue and financial
management studies (Annex 8); and
(f)   the acquisition of property (about 14 ha) for construction
of the retention reservoir, tunnel access shafts and
pipelines easements.
Status of 'roject Preparation
3.04        Project preparation has been carried out by local con.sulting
engineers assisted by expatriate experts. During the course of project
preparation several alternatives were considered1, and those selected represent
the least-cost solution (Annex 1). Detailed design and tender documents are
well advanced, and most contract packages are expected to be announced for
tenders in July 1992.
Project Cost and Financine
3.05        The project cost is estimated at about Rls 133.6 billion (US$95.6
million equivalent), of which about Rls 107.7 billion (US$77 million
equivalent) or abcut 80 percent will be foreign cost. Investments will be
free of duties and taxes. Project costs, detailed in Annex 2, are summarized
by component in Table 3.1 below:



ul ~-8
JI&I 3.1! Projget Cost Summary
Comoneng                Lgtal    .4g5 Totalg            Local Egfraign Ital
- Rls billion .                ----- -US$ million----
Khayam Drain Pipe          1.2    0.7     1.9             0.8    0.5    1.3
Khayam Tunnel              5.8   44.2    50.0             4.1   31.5   35.6
3rd Outlet Tunnel         6.5   38.0    44.5             4.7   27.1   31.8
3rd Outlet Channel        0.6    0.3      0.9             0.4    0.2    0.6
3rd Outlet Pipe            1.9    0.8     2.7             1.4    0.6    2.0
Retentiotu Rescrvoir       0.3    0.2     0.5             0.2    0.1    0.3
Lateral Drains             0.7    0.4     1.1             0.5    0.3    0.8
Misc. Structures         ..Q.    .L.    -Qa               QA   UQ_1    Q.Z
Subtotal, CW       17.2   84.7   101.9            12.2   60.4   72.6
Land Acquisit.            0.1    0.0      0.1             0.1    0.0    0.1
Equipment & Veh.          0.1    0.6      0.7             0.1    0.5    0.6
Proj.Management           0.2    2.0      2.2             0.2    1.4    1.6
Technical Assist.        A.ll   -Li       2.2             0.$   -L.1   1.6
Total Base Cost    18.3   88.8   107.1            13.1   63.4   76.5
Contingencles:
Physical                   1.8    8.7    10.5             1.3    6.3    7.6
Price                     _LI   10.2    16.0             4.2     7. LI   1L1
Total Project Co08 25.9  107.7   133.6            18.6   77.0   95.6
3.06        Cost estimates for civil works are based on a bill of quantities,
February 1992 market prices for labor and materials, an analysis of unit costs
of major items of work carried out by the project consultants, supplemented by
bid prices for contracts awarded recently for similar work in the project
area, and Bank appraisal mission estimates.  Cost estimates for equipment are
based on unit prices for similar equipment procured recently in Iran and on
price quotations requested from suppliers. Local costs (in rials) were
calculated independently from foreign costs (in US$ equivalent). Total costs
(in equivalent currencies) were calculated by converting foreign costs
(estimated in US$ equivalent) into rials equlvalent by using the "floating
exchange rate," and by converting local costs estimated in Rls into US Dollar
equivalent using the same exchange rate. Allowances for physical
contingencies have been provided as follows: 10 percent of the base cost for
all civil works and 5 percent for all other project components. Price
contingencies have been calculated on the basis of a 3.7 percent annual
increase from 1992 to 1998 for the foreign cost; local costs have been assumed
to increase at a rate of 12 percent in 1992, 10 percent in 1993, and 8 percent
thereafter through 1998 when the project is scheduled to be completed
(purchasing power parity is assumed).
3.07        The financing plan consists of a contribution by the Tehran
Municipality of about Rls 25.9 billion (US$18.6 million equivalent) to cover
the entire local cost, plua a Bazk loan of about US$77 million equivalent, or



. 9 -
100 percent of the foreign cost requirements. Agreement was reached during
Sot.fiBIi9D: on the financinglan for the roject.
PXQgcurem2gt
3.08        Procurement of civil works for tunnels, due to the highly
specialized nature of the work, will be tendered following International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures with prequalification of bidders in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines; procurement of the Khayam drain
pipe, the retention reservoir, the Third Outlet pipa, lateral sewers, inlet
structures and appurtenances, which are smaller iai size and will not be of
interest to international bidders and on which local bidders will have a
competitive advantage, will be procured following Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures, which have been reviewed and are acceptable to the Bank. A
limited amount of goods procurement will be done using international shopping
and direct contracting procedures. Procurement arrangements are shown in
Table 3.2 below:
Table 3.2: Procurement Arrangements v
Procurement Method (USSM)
Proiect Com-onents         ICB      LCB       IS      DC        OTHER     Total
1. Civil Works           83.4       7.5               ---        ---      90.9
(70.5)    (3.0)              ...        ---    (73.5)
2. Equipment               ---      ---     0.6      0.1         ---       0.7
----    (0.5)    (0.1)      ---     ( 0.6)
3. Technical Assist.       ---      -       --        ---        3.9       3.9
Training & Proj.        .. *--        ---     ---.           (2.9)    ( 2.9)
Management
83.4      7.5     0.6      0.1         3.9      95.5
Total                 (70.5)    (3.0)   (0.5)    (0.1)       (2.9)    (77.0)
1J    Excluding Land Acquisition.  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to
be financed under the Bank loan. Other procurement method includes
procurement of consultants.
3.69        The civil works for ICB will be grouped in a single contract
package, which represents about 90 percent of the total civil works cost.
Civil works contracts that will be awarded under LCB ptocedures will be
consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the
project. Also, under thece procedures, foreign contractors will be allowed to
bid and all bidders will be treated equally in terms of eligibility for
furnishing bid and performance bonds.



- 10 -
3.10        All civil works contracts with construction periods exceeding one
year will be subject to local cost escalation. Documents and awards for the
ICB contract and the first LCB contract will be subject to prior review by the
Bank. Other LCB contracts exceeding US$1.0 million equivalent will be subject
to post-award reviews. LCB contracts below US$1.0 million per contract will
be subject to selective post-award review. One set of a sample bidding
document for LCB procurement will be submitted to the Bank for clearance.
3.11        Contracts for the supply of maintenance equipment, vehicles and
miscellaneous supplies and spares, which are small (up to US$0.5 million
equivalent in the aggregate), will be procured based on comparing at least
three price quotations from at least two countries through International
Shopping (IS) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement of spare parts
for existing equipment amounting to US$0.1 million equivalent in aggregate,
for reasons of standardization and compatibility, will be done following
direct contracting (DC) procedures.
3.12        Local consultants have already been retained by the implementing
agency to assist the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and are considered
competent for carrying out design. During construction, foreign consultants
will be needed to assist the local consultants on procurement and construction
management. These consultants will be recruited in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Bank financing will be limited to the foreign cost of such
services, which are estimated to cost US$2.0 million equivalent. The
qualifications, experience, contract terms and conditions of the local
consultant financed by the implementing agency are acceptable to the Bank.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that 3DE will retain local and
foreign consultants in accQrdance with arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
throughout project execution.
3.13        Expatriate consultant assistance will also be necessary to
complement local consultants already carryii.g out a financial management and a
municipal revenue study (Annex 8). These experts will be recruited in
accordance with Bank guidelines and terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
Bank financing will be limited to the foreign cost of all consultant services,
which are estimated at about US$0.9 million equivalent (para. 5.07 and 5.12).
Dlabursem=n
3.14        The proposed Bank loan in the amount of US$77 million equivalent
will be fully disbursed in six and half years (including six months beyond
project completion) against the categories and at rates shown in Table 3.3
below:



i 11 -
Table 3.3: Disbursement Categorles and Amounts
Category          Description of           Amount            X Expenditures
Numbor            Goods or Services        USS Millio        To Be Financed
1.                Civil Works              68.0              100X of foreign
Expenditures
2.                Equipment                 0.6              100X of foreign
cost
3.                Consultants' Services,   2.9               1001 of foreign
Studies                                    cost
9.                Unallocated               5.5
Total                   77.0
3.15        Disbursements against all items will be based on full
documentation, except for contracts below US$100,000 equivalent, which will
require only statements of expenditures (SOEs). It is estimated that total
procurement under SOEs will be about US$1.0 million (about 1.3 percent of the
loan amount). Supporting documents for SOE claims will not be submitted for
review by the Bank but retained by the project implementation agency and made
available for inspection by Bank supervision missions and auditors.
3.16        A special account may be set up for the Borrower to finance
eligible expenditures under the Bank loan and will follow standard Bank
procedures in this regard. The special account will be set up in a commercial
bank to be designated by the Central Bank of Iran to which the Bank will make
an inltial deposit of up to US$2.0 million. Aereement was reached during
neagtiations that the Technical and DeveloDment Executlve (TDE) may. for the
ourposes of the project. open and maintain a sDecial account in US dollars on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.17        Most withdrawals from the proceeds of the loan are erPected to be
handled through disbursement applications and letters of credit. However, the
Bank will accept requests for special commitment and withdrawal applications
for a minimum of US$100,000 for direct payment in accordance with Bank
disbursement procedures.
3.18        Given the long hiatus in lending to Iran, there is no disbursement
profile for the country. The implementation period for this project is
estimated at six years (July 1992-June 1998) as shown in Annex 4, based on the
duratlon of contracts and construction methods specified, the spread of the
work) lnvolved and the time-cost relationship. It is anticipated that
disbursements will be completed by December 31, 1998, about six months after
scheduled project completion. A schedule of estimated disbursements is
detailed in Annex 3, and summarized in Table 3.4 below:



- 12 -
Table 3.4: Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Annual                   4.6   19.2   24.2   25.0    3.2    0.4    0.4
Cumulative               4.6   23.8   48.0   73.0   76.2   76.6   77.0
Prol ect SuDervision
3.19        Progress reports will be submitted by the implementing agency
within thirty days after the ond of each quarter during each year of project
implementation. They will focus on the progress achieved during the reporting
period and progress up to date for: (a) the bidding process by contract for
procuremenc of major items of civil works and equipment; (b) the physical
progress by contract for civil works and delivery of equipment; (c) the status
of technical assistance and required studies; (d) the annual work program and
budgetary requirements for counterpart funds (March report only); (e) the
status of Bank disbursements, including pending withdrawal applications and
projected disbursements for the following six months (Decerber and June
reports only); (f) the status of legal covenants, accounts and audit and staff
training; and (g) a summary of the issues raised by Bank supervision missions
and their resolution. A brief explanation will be added giving reasons for
any shortfalls under any contract and of the actions taken to improve
progress.
3.20        Normally, two supervision missions per year (three weeks of Bank
staff time each for combined missions) and one supervision mission in the last
year (four sw) will be required during the implementation period. Supervision
missions will be generally staffed by a civil/sanitary engineer, a financial
analyst and consultants, as required to provide expertise in tunnel
construction. In the first three years, four man-weeks per year of an expert
on tunneling will also be required. Initially, four sw of Bank staff will
also be required to familiarize the project staff with Bank procurement and
account, audit and disbursement guidelines. On arrival, mission briefing
meetings will be held first with the MEF and, subsequently, with the Deputy
Mayor of the Tehran Municipality, the head of the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) and key staff members (para. 4.09), and project consultants. The
supervision missions will make field visits as appropriate. Wrap-up meetings
will be chaired by a representative of the MEF and attended by representatives
of the implementing agency. A tentative project supervision plan is shown in
Annex 5, providing for 13 supervision missions, including a mid-term review.
A total of about 40 Bonk sw or about US$240,000 (based on an average cost of
US$6,000 per sw per mission for combined missions) are estimated for
supervision over the life of the project, including the completion report.



- 13 -
3.21        A mid-term review of all project activities will be conducted
jointly by the implem.snting agency, the HEP and the Bank. To facilitate this
review, the implementing agency will prepare a detailed report covering all
aspects of the project and submit it to the Bank through HEF by January 15,
1995 for a joint review by March 15, 1995. The project completion report will
be prepared by the implementing agency with assistance from the project
consultants and submitted to the Blnk through the MEF not later than six
months after loan closing. Aereement was reached during negotiations that TDE
will submit through the MEF:  (a) auarterly urogress reRorts within 30 day  of
the closing of each quarter: (b) a detailed prore2ss preort for a mid-term
review by January 15. 1995: and (c) a project completion report within six
months after loan closing.



- 14 -
IV. THE-BORROWER AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
The Borrower
4.01        The proposed loan will be made to the Tehran Municipality, which
was established uider the "Municipality Law" dated July 1, 1955. The
municipality covers an area of about 1,200 km2 with a resident population of
at-'sut 7 million people plus a transient daily population of about 2 million
workers and visitors.
Duties and Responsibilities
4.02        The Municipality is empowered to levy taxes on property and
business and professional activities carried out within the city; charge fines
for violations of municipal regulations; and charge fees for licensing
business and construction activities and for services rendered. It also
collects various indirect taxes, e.g., on the sale of oil, gasoline, matches,
alcohol and airplane tickets; on the use of telephone and water; and on the
issuing of passports, etc. The Municipality provides many of the basic public
services normally associated with municipal government. These include:
spatial planning, zoning and building regulation; traffic management;
regulation and licensing of public transport (including taxis); bus services
and bus terminals; fire fighting and security; parks and open spaces;
cemeteries; wholesale markets; city beautification; cold storage facilities;
solid waste managemernt; street cleaning and lighting; and drainage.
Organization and Staffing
4.03        The principal authority of the Municipality is the Tehran
Municipal Council. It comprises 30 members elected for a 4-year period. It
is the Municipality's principal forum for debate and discussion. More
specifically it approves: the annual budget; the raising of loans; the setting
of taxes, fees and charges; and matters of significant policy. In addition to
its role as the quasi-legislative body for Tehran, the Municipality also
serves as the shareholders' body for various autonomous municipal
organizations.
4.04        Recently, the Municipality, as a matter of policy, has been
establishing an increasing number of autonomous organizations, which are set
up and regulated under Iran's commercial law rather than its public sector
law. This gives greater opportunity to deliver services with less
bureaucratic encumbrance and to employ staff on more flexible and attractive
terms. Indeed, even within the Municipality, there are provisions for the
employment of staff on terms more consistent with those of the private sector
than of the civil service. Total staffing of the Municipality is as follows:



- 15 -
Permanent Staff                 7,144
Contractual Staff               2,858
Permanent Manual Workers       18,344
Seasonal Labor                  4.056
Total                    32,402
Management and Administration
4.C5        Reporting to the Municipal Council is the Mayor of Tehran, who is
appointed by the Municipal Council with the approval of the Minister of
Interior. An organizational chart of the Tehran Municipality is in Annex 7.
The Mayor is the Municipality's chief executive, controlling its day-to-day
affairs and managing the staff. The Mayor has 1,185 officials directly under
his control, in various departments and offices, dealing with such matters as:
official municipality policy; inspection of accounts and internal audit;
security; public affairs; and overall staff welfare. There is also an
official "ombudsman." Detailed administration is delegated to six "Deputy
Mayors," each of whom manages a separate "Executive," as follows:
a.    Coordination and Programming Executive - responsible for:
administration and training; planning and budgeting; cooperative
and welfare; computer services; study and programming; revenue
sources investigation; and manpower planning. (301 staff)
b.    City Services Executive - responsible for: firefighting and
security; parks; cemeteries; wholesale markets; beautification;
cold storage; solid waste management; and vehicle services.
(1,924 staff)
c.    Building Codes and City Architecture Executive - responsible for:
city building and architecture; city planning and design; zoning
regulation; and property management. (322 staff)
d.    TransRortation and Traffic Executive - responsible for: the public
bus company; traffic management; taxi regulation; bus terminals;
and traffic police. (1,618 staff)
e.    Technical and DeveloRment Executive - responsible for: the
coordination of organizations and districts; administration and
finance; the geotechnical laboratory; the coordination of planning
and budgeting; technical and engineering consulting; and
engineering and development. (490 staff)
f.    Finance and Administration Executive - responsible for: personnel
management; financial management; revenue management; pension fund
management; central purchasing; and offices dealing with general
administration, legal services and the management of public
buildings. (1,063 staff)



- 16 -
4.06        In several of the Executives, municipal "organizations" or
"companies" have been established to deal with specific functions or services.
Much of the routine operation, maintenance and administration of the
Municipality id carried out in 20 districts. Each has a district (deputy)
mayor as its managerial head. A typical district has departments dealing
with: finance ard administration; building and architecture; technical and
development; transportation and traffic; and city services. The district
administration includes some 3,000 salazied staff, as well as over 22,000
manual workers.
The Proiect Implementing Agency
4.07        The project implementing entity will be the Municipality's
"Technical and Development Executive" (TDE). This is controlled by one of the
deputy mayors.  It provides technic-' and development services for the
Municipality, its various subsidiaL    and for other appropriate interests.
It also has a division for the cooru-.iation of technical and development work
to be performed at the district level, usually of a relatively minor nature.
Larger schemes, including those covering several districts, will typically be
executed by the TDE. The TDE has a department for Administration and
Financial Management, employing about 75 staff. It also has a separate
division for the Coordination of Planning and Budgeting, with an additional 65
staff. Funds are allocated to the TDE from the Municipality's general budget,
following standard procedures, in response to TDE requests.
4.08        Within TDE, there are two autonomous "Municipal Organizations."
One deals with "Technical and Engineering Consulting" (TECO) and the other
with "Engineering and Development" (EDO). These two entities act on behalf of
the TDE--and for the Municipality as a whole--to design and supervise projects
and to implement them through construction. The Technical and Engineering
Consulting Organization employs approximately 100 staff and operate like a
planning and design consulting firm. The Engineering and Development
OrganizatLon employs about 135 people and operates like a firm providing
construction management services. The permanent staff of both these
organizations serve as a core group and they augment their resources using
outside consultants and/or contractors, as required.
Project Management
4.09        Project management will be carried out by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Engineering and Development Organization
(EDO). Overall project management supervision and coordination with the Bank
will be carried out by the MEF. The MEF is staffed with procurement experts
familiar with Bank procurement guidelines who will provide support to the PIU.
The PIU will be headed by the Chief of the EDO Projects Department and will be
strengthened by technical, administrative and finance staff from the Technical
and Development Executive (TDE) of the Tehran Municipality, as assisted by
consultants (para. 3.12). The PIU will monitor and evaluate project
implementation, and, to this effect, it will collect and process data about
the project's physical and financial performance into a form usable for



- 17 -
project management for assessing whether schedules and targets set out in the
project were being met (Annex 6).  The unit will quantify changes from the
appraisal estimate over the life of the project and recommend introducing
changes in project features when necessary. The head of the PIU will
supervise project monitoring And evaluation and will establish a system for
communicating results to the Bank, the deputy mayor and the concerned section
in MEF. The reporting requirements for the PIU are discussed in para. 3.18
and 3.20.   Agreement was reached during negotiations that the TDE will
strengthen the PIU within its EDO Projects Department and undertake a Project,
Monitoring and Evaluation Program as indicated in para. 4.09 and as detailed
in Annex 6.



- 18 -
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Overview
5.01        The operations and management of the Tehran Municipality have been
undergoing changes in the last three years, i.e., the period since the end of
the war. Large increases in the Municipality's financial resources, and the
manner in which these resources are budgeted, managed and accounted for, have
characterized these changes. The new management of the Municipality is
effectively addressing this situation. In addition to the financial
assistance from the Bank, the Municipality has expressed a desire to work with
the Bank towards improving its accounting, financial planning and management
capabilities. The following analysis of the financial situation takes account
of this changing environment and charts a way to enable the Municipality to
achieve its desired objectives.
Financial Management
5.02        Different parts of the Municipality's financial management system
are under the control of separate "Executives" (para 4.05). In the Finance
and Administration Executive there are separate divisions dealing with
financial management, revenue management, and pension fund management.
Central purchasing, sometimes considered a financial function, is also in this
Executive. The Coordination and Programming Executive includes the planning
and budgeting function. The Development and Engineering Executive also has
its own financial department. There are branch financial management and
revenue offices at the district level in each of the 20 districts.
5.03        Within the Finance and Administration Executive, the Finance
Division is responsible for accounting, payroll processing, cash management
and debt management. It also deals with expenditure management in at least
two principal ways. First, it is responsible for the direct payment of
expenses incurred by the Municipality headquarters operations. Second, it
disburses budgetary funds, on a lump-sum basis, to the various Executives,
departments, districts, organizations and companies. The Records Division is
the principal evaluator and custodian of documentation used to support
disbursements. The Revenue Division is responsible for the detailed
procedures for the collection of revenues, ultimately transmitted for
management by the Finance Division. This division also supervises the work of
revenue collection in the districts.
5.04        The annual budgeting process is coordinated by the Planning and
Budgeting Division of the Coordination and Programming Executive. The budget
is submitted by the Mayor to the Municipal Council. After approval, budgetary
management is decentralized to the deputy mayors, district mayors, and the
heads of organizations and companies in which the Municipality has a
shareholding.



- 19 -
5.05        The Financial Department in the Technical and Development
Executive is largely responsible for managing and controlling the capital
budget of the Tehran Municipality, since this Executive has the overall
responsibility for design, supervision and implementation of all projects
financed by the Municipality. Once the projects are completed, the operation
and management of the facilities is handed over to the respective division in
other parts of the Municipality.
5.06        Given the scale, complexity, and the anticipated growth of
municipal operations, the financial planning and management capability of the
Municipality needs significant improvement. Its accounting system needs
refinement, streamlining and automation. Part of the problem is undoubtedly
systemic. The other part of the problem, and perhaps a more significant one,
is a consequence of the recent history of the Municipality. During the war,
the Municipality's resources became severely constrained and, consequently,
the quality of its operations and management declined significantly. In spite
of rapid inflation, charges and levies for services remained unchanged;
collections fell and were sparingly enforced; municipal assets were left
unmaintained, and there were practically no new investments. While the
population of the city almost doubled, the Municipality's resources and
ability to deliver the necessary services were insufficient to meet the
growing demands. It is also clear, however, that since the end of the war,
the situation has improved dramatically. This is evicent from the fact that
municipal revenues have quadrupled in the last four years, and in 1991 the
revenues are expected to be about 85 percent h3'yher than in 1990. The
Municipality has P' =mbarked on a comprehensive long-term plan to improve
and expand its F-'-'- is.
5.07        The management of the Municipality is aware that in order to
achieve its goals, it must improve the planning and management of all aspects
of its operations and must consider new approaches for service delivery (e.g.,
the privatization of solid waste collection, bus service, city beautification,
the maintenance of markets, parks, cemeteries, etc., is being considered).
While some of these improvements will take time, as a first step, the
Municipality has given a high priority to improving the financial management
aspects of its operations and has requested Bank assistance in this regard.
Accordingly, draft terms of reference have been prepared to carry out a study
to improve the financial management of the .Municipality (Annex 8), and funds
have been provided in the loan to cover the foreign costs of consultants to
carry out this study. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the
!4unicioality will: (a) complete a study to imRrove the financial management of
the Tehran MuniciRality. using consultants acceRtable to the Bank. by
September 30. 1993: and (b) after reviewing the recommendations of the
consultants with the Bank. implement the agreed recommendations consistent
with applicable regulations.



- 20 -
Financial Situation
5.08        The detailed revenues and expenditures of the Municipality are in
Annex 9. The following table summarizes the financial situation of the
Municipality in the last few years:
Tehran MuniciRality - Revenues and Expenditures
(Billions of Rials)
Current             Capital
Year      Revenue      Exenditres         Exenditures
1988 (Act.)    62.8          47.1                15.7
1989   n       69.6          51.2                18.4
1990   n      167.1          61.5               105.6
1991 (Proj.)  309.8         116.2               193.6
5.0S        The Municipality's revenues comprise an assortment of taxes on
business, utilities, construction activity, vehicles, etc. together with fines
and penalties. There are also a number of "indirect taxes" collected by the
GOI and handed over to the Municipality, such as taxes on fuel, matches,
alcohol, air tickets, passports, air freight, etc.
5.10        Property taxes and charges consist of direct property tax and fees
for building permits. Direct property tax, the customary source of local
government revenue, provides a small, though relatively stable, contribution
to municipal revenues. In the last four years, it has remained in the range
of Rls 7-8 billion. This is largely due to the fact that property values and
tax rates have not been revised for a long time. The Municipality is in the
process of revaluing all properties. By contrast, in 1990 almost Rls 100
billion was raised from taxes that relate to approvals for new building
construction or changes of land use. While welcome as Municipal revenues,
they depend significantly upon accelerated economic development and related
construction activity. Although there is ample evidence and justification to
believe that this source of revenue will continue to be significant in the
foreseeable future, it also has the potential to be unstable in both amount
and availability. These taxes are, therefore, not an altogether reliable
source of revenue on which to base the Municipality's expenditures for the
operation and maintenance of ongoing services. Another significant and
relatively stable tax has been the tax on motor vehicles, which is expected to
go up substantially. The professional taxes are also expected to go up
sharply since the Municipality has deleted many of the minor taxes it used to
collect and combined them into the professional tax. However, the
Municipality's heavy dependence on the building construction fees suggests the
need for a significant review and potential overhaul of the revenue system and
sources.
5.11        An analysis of expenditures shows that the current budget of the
Municipality increased fairly stable. Salaries and benefits, which had not
been adjusted for many years, were increased in 1991. Rents in Tehran are



- 21 -
some of the highest in the world and they have gone up recently. As revenues
have grown, the Municipality increasingly finds itself in a position to
contribute to many public and civic activities in a more substantial way than
before. This shows up as "Aid and Grants" to both the public and private
sector and consists of contributions made for the construction of public
facilities like libraries, gymnasiums, schools, health centers, etc.
5.12        When the revenue base of the Municipality was small, it received
small contributions from the GOI. These contributions have stopped entirely.
As revenues have grown, the Municipality has used the excess revenues to carry
out development projects. Borrowing by the Municipality has been relatively
modest. Loans raised during the last 4 years have totalled a little over Rls
17 billion (about US$12 million). However, given the substantial investments
the Municipality plans to undertake in the near future, it is not clear that
significant additional borrowings could be supported without substantial steps
leading to revenue enhancement and stabilization measures and improved
management of financial resources. The Municipality is aware of this
situation and has already established a committee consisting of its own
financial staff and outside local experts to study and advise the Municipality
on mitigative measures. It has also requested Bank assistance to this
committee in carrying out its task. Accordingly, draft terms of reference
have been prepared to carry out a municipal finance study (Annex 8) that will
advise the Municipality to develop and promulgate a revised system of taxes
and service charges, so as to provide the Municipality with a stable and
growing revenue base, enabling it to carry out its responsibilities in an
equitable and cost effective manner. Funds have been provided in the project
to finance the foreign cost of consultants for the study. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that the MuniciRalitv will: (a) carry out a
municigal finance study. nsing consultants acceRtable to the Bank. by December
31. 1993: and (b) review the recommendations of the study with the Bank and
agree on a plan of action fox their imnlementation consistent with applicable
regulations.
Future Financial Performance
5.13        The following table provides the Municipality's estimates of its
revenues and expenditures for the next five years:
Tehran MuniciRality
Anticipated Reyenues and Expenditures
(Billions of Rials)
Exipenditures8
Year        Revenues       Operatlal           Capital
1992           336               140             196
1993           341               141             200
1994           392               162             230
1995           457               187             270
1996           515               215             300



- 22 -
5.14        Given the inherent uncertainties in municipal revenue forecasting.
any analysis of future financial performance can only be indicative at best.
Moreover, investment plans based '%n uncertain future revenues and loan
financing, which is yet to be secured, can only be tentative.  Nevertheless,
in reviewing the Municipality's forecasts, judgements can be made as to
whether they are reasonable or not. Given the fact that revenues in 1991 are
expected to reach almost Rls 310 billion (para. 5.08), the 1992 revenue
estimates seem reasonable. In the following four years, the Municipality has
projected both revenues and operational expenditures to grow by an average of
about 11 percent per annum. This also seems reasonable if one considers
inflation and assumes certain improvements in collection and financial
management.  If anything, operational expenditures might increase somewhat
faster than projected.  It is interesting to note, however, that the
Municipality plans to spend almost 60 percent of its revenues for capital
expenditures and debt service. This is due to the fact that while approving
many of the taxes, the Tehran Municipal Council also prescribes the proportion
of the revenues collected from these taxes that the Municipality is required
to spend on either recurrent or capital expenditures. Due to these
limitations, on average, the Municipality is required not to spend more than
60 percent of its revenues for recurrent expenditures, while it can spend more
than 40 percent for capital expenditures.  While this appears to be a very
prudent approach to budgeting and planning, the fact that the revenue
projections are based on relatively recent revenue growth should make the
Municipality more cautions when major investment decisions are involved. It
also highlights the need for continuous and close monitoring of the investment
planning process within the Municipality.
5.15        The expected improvements in financial management (para. 5.07) and
stabilization of revenues (para. 5.12) will help mitigate this situation.
However, given the ambitious investment plans of the Municipality, it is of
the utmost importan^e that its budgeting system is refined and kept under
close review so that the financial implication of all investment decisions are
clearly recognized and the financial health of the Municipality remains sound.
Agreement was reached during negotiations. therefore. that the Municigality
will: (a) starting with its fiscal year beginning on March 21. 1993 and for
each fiscal year thereafter. submit to the Bank the estimate of its revenues
and its recurrent and capital exDenditures for the fiscal year:
(b) starting in fiscal year be8inning on March 21. 1993 and in each fiscal
year thereafter the revenues of the MuniciRalitv will be sufficient to cover
its recurregnt ex2enditures. including debt service, and the Municibality's
contribution to the capital expenditure reauirements: and (c) if in any fiscal
year the revenue projections show that they will not meet the reguirements in
(b). the MuniciRalitY will take all necessary measures. including adjustments
in the structure or levels of its rates. in order to meet such requirements.
Accounts and AudLt
5.16        Until the end of the last fiscal year (ending March 20, 1991), the
accou-ts and the annual financial statements of the Municipality were audited
by a nominee of the Mayor, approved by the Municipal Council, who was assisted



- 23 -
by accountants and auditors from both within and outside the Municipality.
This is the usual practice in municipalities all over Iran. However, the
Tehran Municipal Council has instructed the management of the Tehran
Municipality to have the Municipality's accounts audited by outside
independent auditors. Accordingly, the Municipality has approached the
"Auditing Organization" for this task. The "Auditing Organization" is an
independent agency under the MEF that carries out audits of all revenue
earning entities of the Government. Its staff is qualified, and the quality
of its audit is satisfactory. The Municipality has already agreed that the
"Auditing Organization" will carry out the first audit of the municipality's
accounts starting with the fiscal year ending March 20, 1992. The first audit
report is expected to be available within four months after the end of the
fiscal year.
5.17        Accounting standards within the TDE are presently not entirely
suitable for financial monitoring of projects. To overcome this problem,
separate accounts will be set up for all financial transactions related to the
Bank financed project, including the Special Account. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that: (a) starting with the Municigality's fiscal year
ending March 20. 1992 the annual financial statements of the Municipality will
be preRared and presented accordin6 to standard municinal accounting
practices: (b) starting in the same fiscal year and for each fiscal year
thereafter. these statements will be audited by indeRendent and experienced
auditors acceptable to the Bank: (c) the auditors will. in addition to the
overall audit reDort for the Municipality. RreRare and submit a seDarate
opinion on the accuracy and appropriateness of the project accounts to be
maintained by the TDE: and (d) the audit renort and the report on the oroject
accounts will be submitted to the Bank within six months from the end of each
fiscal year.



- 24 -
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATIO
Least-Cost Alternative
6.01        The proposed project components are the least-cost solutions for
reducing the risk of flood damage both in the central area of Tehran and the
low-lying areas to the south (para. 2.13-2.14). Alternative methods of
construction were studied to determine the economic impact during
construction, as well as cost-effective methods (Annex 1). Although the
tunneling methods selected (shield machine and road-header) were demonstrated
to be the least-cost for different soil conditions, the bid documents would
provide for alternative methods to be considered.  The routing of tunnels and
pipes was determined by topographical conditions, as well as by the right-of-
way of major public roads, to minimize the need for acquiring private
property. The design of the Third Outlet was determined by the limited
hydraulic capacity of the Kan river; this resulted in proposing a reservoir to
retain peak flows for gradual release to the Kan river. This solution
permitted the use of spoils from tunnels for the construction of embankments,
thereby reducing the disposal cost. Also, the outlet pipe from the reservoir
was determined to be more economical than an open channel (only one buried
pipe would be needed, located mostly within road right-of-way), as the latter
would not only require the purchase of land (about 12 ha) but would create
social problems by dividing private parcels of agricultural area into
irregular sections. Also, to reduce the disposal cost of spoils from tunnel
work, the surplus material not used for the retention reservoir will be used
for landscaping reclaimed land converted into city parks.
Prolect Benefits
6.02        The main project benefits are a reduction in the risk to human
life and a reduction in flood-related damages, primarily in the heavily
populated Khayam area of Tehran and in Shahr-e-Rey, a low-income area.
Tangible benefits include savings in the costs of: (i) flood damage to
buildings and infrastructure, including substantial damage at the Tehran
Railway Station; (ii) damage to utilities (water, telephone and electricity);
(iii) disruptions to traffic and interruptions in economic activity; (iv)
manpower for emergency response programs and assistance to the affected
population; and (v) losses to crops in Shahr-e-Rey. An additional benefit is
the value of buildings along the Firouzabad canal that would collapse if the
project were not undertaken.
Environmental and Social Imnact
6.03         On the expectation that environmental impacts from the project
would be limited in extent and amenable to mitigation, the project was
classified under environmental category B at the Initial Executive Project
Summary (IEPS) stage and subjected to the environmental analysis by Iranian
consultants described in Annex 11. This analysis concluded that the proposed
project will have a positive impact on both the natural environment and



- 25 -
cultural beritage in the project area. There are no fauna, flora or known
sites of cultural importance within the routes of the proposed tunnels, pipes
or the retention reservoir. The potential negative environmental impact that
could result from the transfer of flood waters and related water pollution to
the Kan river flood plain will be mitigated by the provision of a retention
reservoir. This reservoir will retain peak stormwater flows and will capture
settleable solids carried by these waters. It will enable releases of flood
waters gradually within the hydraulic capacity of the Kan river. Also, the
use of surplus excavated material from tunnels for reclaimed land for parks
(following proper methods to be included in the contract documents) will avoid
any potential negative impacts that could result from improper disposal
practices. Provisions will also be made during construction for a close
supervision of excavation works by the Cultural Heritage Organization to
ensure that any sites of cultural importance, which might be uncovered might
be given proper protection.
6.04        The project will have a significant social impact by protecting
the lives (deaths associated with flash floods have been reported in these
flood-prone areas) and property of about 45,000 people residing in low-income
households in the Shahr-e-Rey area, a historical town over a thousand years
old, and about 160,000 people living in the Khayam area of Tehran. Storm
water flows will continue to increase as Tehran continues to develop; the
existing Firouzabad channel has deteriorated substantially and is unable to
contain the flows that already occur several times a year. In the absence of
the project works to divert the flows away from Shahr-e-Rey, permanent
evacuation of the flood-prone areas of Shahr-e-Rey will eventually be
necessary, at enormous financial cost and human suffering. Short-term
solutions will merely postpone the necessary investments by shifting the
problem to other areas of the town. The project will not affect downstream
agricultural areas as only the stormwater in excess of the base flow in the
existing drainage channels will be diverted to the Third Outlet conveyor.
6.05        At present, because of the lack of a sewerage system in the Tehran
area, storm water flows contain sewage and wastewater from commerce and small
industry. Flooding spreads the danger of contamination of pollutants in the
wastewater and is a substantial health risk. The water from the Firouzabad
canal, which is known to contain many kinds of pathogens and some heavy
metals, as well as sludge extracted from a local "informal" drying pond using
polluted storm water drainage, is used on vegetable crops in the agricultural
area near Shahr-e-Rey. Since many of these vegetables are consumed raw
(lettuces, radishes, etc.), this is an extremely unhealthy situation. The
diversion of the major storm water flows away from the area will substantially
reduce the health risk to the population subject to flooding, and to the
consumers of these vegetables in Tehran and other areas.
6.06        Several historical sites lie within or adjacent to the areas that
will be susceptible to damage from flooding, if the proposed drainage works
are not implemented. In central Tehran, these include the Cholestan and
Marble palaces, some buildings in the bazaar area and the Hasan Abaad square
and Shams Al Emoreh. In Shahr-e-Rey, these include the Shrine of Abdul Azim,



- 26 -
which is over one thousand years old, the Shrine of Imam Abdulla and ar
adjacent cemetery, and several picturesque old buildings in the bazaar area.
In all, an estimated 10-20 ha of old buildings in the town will risk flood
damage over the next few decades, if the project were not implemented.
6.07        The project will contribute indirectly to improved water resources
management in the Tehran area. The project will allow future use to be made
of the storm water runoff to be diverted to the west, where there is the
possibility of artificially recharging other parts of the plain west of Tehran
through the Karaj riverbed.
6.08        Potential use of the proposed project tunnels would be to convey
the excess groundwater in the southern areas of Tehran in the vicinity of the
Khayam tunnel to irrigate about 10,000 hectares of fertile, arable land,
formerly irrigated by water from the Karaj River, which is located in the
Shanrijr and Robot-Karim area, about 30 km southwest from Tehran. Irrigation
has ceased in the Shahriar and Robot-Karim area since the construction of a
dam to increase Tehran's water supply, and crops now have to depend on
rainwater; this has resulted in decreased agriculture yield. There are now
plans to convey groundwater from sources in eastern Tehran, where the
groundwater table is high, to this agricultural area. Using the project
tunnels during dry weather periods, instead of constructing a conveyor tunnel
in a westerly direction across Tehran (the original plan), would result in
substantial costs savings. Under this arrangement, the project tunnels would
convey the water to within 20 km of the agricultural area, and an open channel
would be constructed for the remaining distance. Should this arrangement
materialize, the cost savings (the total cost of the originally planned
conveyor, minus the cost of the 20 km open channel) for the future conveyor
project would be substantial.
Economic Justification
6.09        Cost streams included in the calculation of the economic rate of
return include those related to land acquisition, civil works, equipment and
vehicles; design, supervision and project management; and operation and
maintenance over the life of the project (50 years). Physical contingencies
are included at 10 percent for civil works and 5 percent for vehicles and
equipment, etc. Cost streams are net of taxes; foreign costs are converted to
rials at the economy-wide shadow exchange rate of 920 Rls/US$.
6.10        The quantifiable benefits attributable to reductions in flooding
in the heavily populated sections of both the Khayam a-ea of Tehran and Shahr-
e-Rey include the savings in costs related to: flood damage to buildings and
infrastructure, disruptions in normal economic activity, and manpower for
emergency preparation and clean-up. The costs of flood damage to the Tehran
Railway Station in the southern part of the Khayam area also constitute a
benefit. In Shahr-e-Rey, additional benefits are associated with the costs of
the damage sustained by buildings along the Firouzabad canal, and of damage to
agricultural crops during flooding. Quantifiable benefits encompass a
reduction in the following:



- 27 -
(a)   damage to houses and other buildings;
(b)   damage to warehouse stocks;
(c)   damage to bridges, sidewalks and streets;
(d)   costs associated with removing sediments and debris;
(e)   damage to telephone infrastructure;
(f)   time spent in preparing for floods and in clean-up operations;
(g)   damage to the Tehran Railway Station;
(h)   damage to properties along the old Firouzabad canal!
(i)   damage to crops in Shahr-e-Rey; and
(j)   disruption in normal economic activity.
6.11        Details on the assumptions for the calculation of economic costs
and benefits are included in Annex 10. Since only these direct benefits are
included in the calculation of the economic rate of return (ERR), the
calculated ERR of about 23 percent is considered a very conservative estimate.
6.12        Sensitivity Analysis.  The ERR is very robust; a one-year delay in
benefits reduces it to better than 18 percent; and a 20 percent reduction in
benefits combined with a 20 percent increase in costs gives a return of about
16 percent. The use of the competitive exchange rate of 600 Rls/US$ would
give an ERR of over 28 percent.
Project Risks
6.13        Three types of project risks are foreseen: namely, those
associated with the TDE project implementation capacity and lack of knowledge
of Bank guidelines and regulations, particularly those related to procurement;
those associated with the financial management of the Tehran Municipality; and
those associated with the normal construction of works of this nature,
particularly construction during the flash flood season. To address the first
concern, local consultants will be strengthened by expatriate experts familiar
with project implementation and Bank guidelines and regulations, and Bank
seminars will be conducted at an early stage of project implementation on
procurement, disbursement and other aspects of Banks' modus ogerandi. To
address the second concern, provision has been taken under the project to
expand the scope of the ongoing studies for financial management and revenue
base enhancement and to strengthen the local consultants with the support of
expatriate experts. To address the third concern, special attention has been
paid to design provisions and tender documents to ensure that, throughout
construction, measures are taken at all times for the safety of the general
public, workers, equipment and work in progress.
Acauisition of Private Property
6.14        The project will be built mostly underground and along existing
streets and road rights-of-way and will entail the acquisition of only about
12 ha of barren land classified for agriculture (for a retention reservoir),
1 ha of land in the city (about 20 small plots for tunnel access shafts), and
about 1 ha of land for pipe easements. The project, however, will not require
any resettlement. The acquisition of maintenance easements for the Third



- 28 -
Outlet pipe rlght-of-way will also be required at various places; this pipe
will be located mostly in public roads and will not affect populated or
agricultural areas. The Municipality lntends to acquire private property
based on legislation which provides for purchase at the market value
prevailing at the time of acquisition. However, measures will be taken to
compensate people in kind to ensure no hardships are caused to affected
families. These arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank. Aceemeng WAS
reached durinj negotlations that the acquisition of land and relocation of
people. if anv. will be madg in acgordance with arrangements satisfactory to
tha Baank



- 29 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01        During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on the
following:
(i)    the financing plan for the project (para. 3.07);
(ii)   the TDE will retain local and foreign consultants in accordance
with arrangements satisfactory to the Bank throughout project
execution (para. 3.12);
(iii)  the TDE may, for the purpose of the project, open and maintain a
Special Account in US dollars on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.16;
(iv)   the TDE will submit (a) quarterly progress reports withi' 30 days
of the closing of each quarter; (b) a detailed progress report
for mid-term review by January 15, 1995; and (c) a project
completion report within six months after loan closing
(para. 3.21);
(v)    the TDE will strengthen the PIU within its EDO Projects
Department and undertake a monitoring and evaluation program
(para. 4.09);
(vi)   the Municipality will: (a) complete a study to improve the
financial management of the Tehran Municipality, using
consultants acceptable to the Bank, by September 30, 1993; and
(b) after reviewing the recommendations of the consultants with
the Bank, implement the agreed recommendations consistent with
applicable regulations (para. 5.07);
(vii)  the Municipality will: (a) carry out a municipal finance study,
using consultants acceptable to the Bank, by December 31, 1993;                -
and (b) review the recommendations of the study with the Bank
prior to their implementation consistent with applicable
regulations (para. 5.12);
(viii) the Municipality will: (a) starting with its fiscal year
beginning on March 21, 1993 and for each fiscal year thereafter,
submit to the Bank the estimate of its tevenues and its recurrent
and capital expenditures for the fiscal year; (b) starting in
fiscal year beginning on March 21, 1993 and in each fiscal year
thereafter, the revenues of the Municipality will be sufficient
to cover its recurrent expenditures, including debt service, and
the Municipality's contribution to the capital expenditure
requirements; and (c) if in any fiscal year the revenue
projections show that they will not meet the requirements in (b),
the Municipality will take all necessary measures, including



- 30 -
adjustments in the structure or levels of its rates, in order to
meet such requirements (para. 5.15);
(ix)   that: (a) starting with the Municipality's fiscal year ending
March 20, 1992, the annual financial statements of the
Municipality will be prepared and presented according to standard
municipal accounting practices; (b) starting in the same fiscal
year and for each fiscal year thereafter, these statements will
be audited by independent and experienced auditors acceptable to
the Bank; (c) the auditors will, in addition to the overall audit
report for the Municipality, prepare and submit a separate
opinion on the accuracy and appropriateness of the project
accounts to be maintained by the TDE; and (d) the audit report
and the report on the project accounts will be submitted to the
Bank within six months from the end of each fiscal year
(para. 5.17); and
(x)    that the acquisition of land and relocation of people, if any,
will be made in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 6.14).
7.02         Agreement having been reached on the issues referred to in
Chapter III through VI of this report and summarized in para. 7.01 above, the
proposed project will be suitable for a Bank loan of US$77 million equivalent
to the Tehran Municipality of the Islamic Republic of Iran under the Bank's
standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 17 years, including five
years of grace.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHEAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
Tehran Drainage Master Plan and Proposed Project
Introduction
1.          The first comprehensive study of the Tehran drainage system was
completed by expatriate and local consultants in July 1975 and updated by
local consultants since 1979 as the various stages were being implemented.
These studies have analyzed hydrologic data and drainage problems in the city
and have recommended a design criteria :;nd a program of measures for
implementation in stages. This note presents a brief outline of this program
and a status of its implementation.
Nature of ainage Problems
2.          The nature of drainage problems can be categorized in three types;
namely, flooding of streets and property within the city itself; flooding of
low-lying areas to the south (Shahr-e-Rey town and vicinity); and high erosion
of unstable and steep slopes in the mountain streams to the north which carry
large loads of sediment and boulders creating downstream cleaning and flooding
problems. These drainage problems are being addressed by the Tehran
municipality for the last fifteen years.
Design Criteria
3.          The design criteria is based on an analysis of rainfall data
collected from 20 rain gage stations placed at strategic sites throughout the
city and mountain catchments during the course of the study (in the early
1970s), and correlated with 64 years of rainfall records collected at the
International Airport. Rainfall precipitation and frequency analysis were
therefore based on the airport records. Adjustments were made for rainfall
characteristics at different altitudes, and the following equation and values
were obtained:
I - cT-0.646
where I is the rainfall intensity in mm/hour,
T is the duration of the storm event in minutes, and
c is a constant for a given return period and altitude.
values of c at 1000 meters above mean sea level were calculated
and summarized in the table below:



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
Return Period -Year      2     5     10     20
c          122   182    223    263
Storm profiles were also calculated based on the following
formula:
I - k e-0.25(tO.75)
where I represents the intensity of the storm i.n mm/hour,
t represents the duration time in minutes, and
k represents 4 factor for a 1000 meter elevation above mean sea
level for various return periods as shown below:
Return Period - Years    2      5     10     20
c           36.7  54.7   67.1   77.0
4.          It was recommended that secondary drains be sized to carry flows
generated by storms with 1:5 years frequency, while major drains be sized for
events occurring 1:20 years frequency. The tunnels were designed to normally
function as open channels, however, they have a larger carrying hydraulic
capacity (1:30 years frequency) due to construction conditions (minimum
dimensions) and because such structures would be totally enclosed to function
as a closed conduit under extreme circumstances.
5.          Runoff from local drainage areas were estimated based on the
rational method. Major drains, however, were designed using synthetic unit
hydrography method. Hydrography analysis included a detailed analysis of
stream flow and rainfall records of Jaj-e-Rud (Jaj river) which is located in
the same hydrographic area and with similar rainfall precipitation
characteristics as those experienced in Tehran. Detailed calculations are
available in the project file.
Overall Drainage Program
6.          The main drainage system master plan consist of: (i) tutnels and
open channels to collect rainwater runoff within the city and divert such
flows to natural drainage river courses; (ii) open channels and culverts to
intercept mountain streams and divert them around the city to existing river
courses; and (iii) lateral drains, manholes, inlet structures and
appurtenances to relieve the jube system as required and divert such surface
waters into tunnels and open channels.
7.          The city is subdivided in ten major catchment areas; namely,
Western (between Karaj and Kan rivers); Kan river and Western Diversion Canal
(between Kan river and Firouzabad canal); Southwest; Firouzabad Canal; Khayam;
Municipal Tunnel; Shahrivar (to the west of Sorkhe Hessar canal);
Southeastern; Northern (several mountain streams to the north draining into
Sorkhe Hessar canal); and Eastern (mountain streams to the east draining into



- 33 -
Page 3 of 4
Sorkhe Hessar canal). The first two catchments drain toward the Karaj and Kan
rivers respectively; the central catchments (Firouzabad and Khayam) drain to
the south into the Firouzabad canal; while the remaining catchments including
the Municipal tunnel drain towards the Sorkhe Hessar canal. It is the central
catchments that cause major problems e..: these areas are densely built-up and
the natural drainage channels have been obstructed by urban development.
8.          The Firouzabad canal is already hydraulically overloaded and two
tunnels have been considered to provide relief; the Navab street tunnel now
under construztion and the Khayam street tunnel being considered under the
proposed project. These tunnels and the Firouzabad canal (storm water
overflow) are to be intercepted by the Third Outlet conveyor to divert flood
waters to the Kan river away from Shahr-e-Rey area.
9.          The Municipal tunnel built over ten years ago, provides relief to
a part of the eastern catchments by diverting such waters towards the Sorkhe
Hessar canal.
10.         Secondary drainage systems consisting of lateral drains and
appurtenances are gradually implemented as the city develops and as required
to complete projects under the major drainage program.
11.         Upon completion of the proposed project (para. 12), the Khayam
Main Drain and Third Outlet, the only remaining major work would be the
erosion control of northern mountain catchments and sediment transport
control. The latter component is currently under design for implementation in
the near future.
ProRosed Project
12.         The proposed project consists of providing a surface water
collection and disposal system in the city of Tehran, which represents a part
of a city-wide drainage infrastructure master plan. The project would consist
of two major sub-components, first, a trunk tunnel (Khayam Main Drain) along
Khayam street, and lateral drains and appurtenances which are required to
intercept rainwater runoff collected in the Jubes in the central part of
Tehran; and, second, a main interceptor system (Third Outlet) consisting of a
tunnel, an open channel, a storage reservoir, and a pipe outfall to river Kan.
This system is required to protect the central part of Tehran and the low-
lying areas to the south of the city from frequent floods (Shahr-e-Rey). The
project location and site specific works are shown in maps IBRD No. 23587 and
23588. A description of the proposed Tehran Drainage Program is given below:
(a)   the provision of a main drainage interceptor system, Third Outlet,
consisting of: (i) about 6.3 km long concrete lined tunnel, 4.80
m. inside diameter ; (ii) about 1.6 km long and 8.00x3.00 m
concrete lined open channel; (iii) about 600,000 m3 net capacity
storage reservoir; and (iv) about 6.0 km long and 2000 mm inside
diameter reinforced concrete pressure pipe;



- 34 -
Page 4 of 4
(b)   the provision of a central surface water collector system,
Khayam Main Drain, consisting of: (i) about 10.8 km. long
concrete lined tunnel ranging in size from 2.80 to 3.30 m.
inside diameter; and (ii) about 3.7 km long reinforced
concrete or asbestos cement pipe ranging in size from 1400
mm co 1600 mm inside diameter;
(c)   the provision of about 3.0 km, 1400 mm inside diameter
asbestos cement pipe for lateral sewers; manholes; inlet
structures and appurtenances;
(d)   the provision of maintenance equipment and spares; and
(e)   the provision of technIcal assistance for: (i) construction
management; (ii) municipal revenue study; and (iii)
financial management study.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
Islamic Republic of Iran
Tehran Drainage Project
Summary Accoumts Cost Swuary
Rials                                      US s
..............................................................  ...........................
Local   Foreign       Total           Local  Forefgn        Total
..............................           .................................................................................... ..
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................. .................. 
A. Civil Works
1. Khayam Drain PIpe                   1177.2       653.8      1831.0              0.8        0.5        1.3
2. Khayam  Tunnel                      5769.6   44188.4   49958.0                  4.1       31.6       35.7
3. Third Outlet Tunel                  6517.7   38024.3   44542.0                  4.7       27.2       31.8
4. Third Outlet Chanmel                 616.0       264.0        880.0             0.4        0.2        0.6
5. Third Outlet Pipe                   1939.0       831.0      2770.0              1.4        0.6        2.0
6. Storage Reservoir                    322.0        138.0       460.0             0.2        0.1        0.3
7. Laterals                             726.5       418.5      1145.0              0.5        0.3        0.8
8. Miscellaneous Structures             154.0         66.0       220.0             0.1        0.0        0.2
................. iii.......................... .................. ;:......... :................ ~..
Sub-Total                                17222.0   84584.0  101806.0                  12.3       60.4       72.7
B. Land Acquisition                          20.0          0.0        20.0             0.0        0.0        0.0
C. Equipment A Vehicles                      72.1       648.9       721.0              0.1        0.5        0.5
D. Project Management                       244.0       576.0       820.0              0.2        0.4        0.6
E. Technical Assistance                     722.0      2888.0      3610.0              0.5        2.1        2.6
,..............................    ................... I...... ...................
..............................           ................................................ .............
Total BASELINE COSTS                      18280.1    88696.9  106977.0                13.1       63.4       76.4
Physical Contingenefes                 1776.1      8664.0    10440.1               1.3        6.2        7.5
Price Contingencies                    5849.5    10230.5    16080.0                4.2        7.3       11.5
..............................           .............................................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                     25905.7  107591.4  133497.1                  18.5       76.9       95.4
Vaaauuesan                   n oun Scaled by 10000.0 - 316:4
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 -   3/24/1992  16:40



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
Islamic Republic of Iran
Tehran Drainage ProJect
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
Rials
92/93     93/94     94/95      95/96     96/97     97/98      98/99     Totat
*---uau==uuu.u==B-a-auu#nauua----u--a-----u---u-z-u-= uU3ZUUU=====e=U=S
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
1. Khayam Drain Pipe                 0.0     426.7    1548.6      445.7       0.0        0.0       0.0    2421.0
2. Khayam Turnel                  3536.5   15768.8   19974.0   21273.6    1016.2         0.0       0.0   61569.1
3. ThIrd Outlet Tunnel            3382.2   14210.9   17482.2   17938.1    2135.3         0.0       0.0   55148.8
4. Third Outlet Channel              0.0       0.0      160.0     897.8     198.1        0.0       0.0    1255.8
5. Third Outlet Pipe                 0.0       0.0      519.9    1710.0    1798.2        0.0       0.0    4028.1
6. Storage Reservoir                 0.0       0.0      133.3     456.0      61.0        0.0       0.0     650.3
7. Laterals                          0.0       0.0        0.0      64.1     682.8      868.3     179.1    1794.3
8. Misceltaneous Structures          0.0       0.0        0.0      14.3     182.9      130.4      17.4      345.0
Sub-Total                            6918.6   30406.4   39818.0  42799.6   6074.4         998.7     196.5  127212.2
B. Land Acquisition                     0.0       0.0       27.7       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       27.7
C. Equipment & Vehicles                 0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0     924.1        0.0       0.0      924.1
D. ProJect Management                 108.7      172.3     156.5     164.6      173.3     182.4      71.1    1028.7
E. Technical Assistance               350.5    1191.4    1345.8      812.0     425.9      178.8       0.0    4304.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                  7377.8  31770.1   41347.9  43776.1    7597.7    1359.9         267.6  133497.1
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  3/24/1992  16:40
Islamic Republic of Iran
Tehran Drainage Project
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
US S
.................................................................................
92/93     93/94     94/95      95/96     96/97     97/98      98/99     Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. Civil Works
1. Khayam Drain Pipe                 0.0       0.3        1.1       0.3       0.0        0.0       0.0        1.7
2. Khoyam Tunel                      2.5      11.3       14.3      15.2       0.7        0.0       0.0       44.0
3. Third Outlet Tumel                2.4      10.2       12.5      12.8        1.5       0.0       0.0       39.4
4. Third Outlet Channel              0.0       0.0        0.1       0.6       0.1        0.0       0.0        0.9
5. Third Outlet Pipe                 0.0       0.0        0.4       1.2        1.3       0.0       0.0        2.9
6. Storage Reservoir                 0.0       0.0        0.1       0.3       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.5
7. Laterals                          0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.5        0.6       0.1        1.3
8. Niscellawus Structures            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.1        0.1       0.0        0.2
Sub-Total                               4.9      21.7       28.4      30.6        4.3       0.7       0.1       90.9
8. Land Acquisition                     0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.
C. Equipment & Vehicles                 0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.7       0.0       0.0        0.7
D. Project Management                   0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.7
E. Techneal  A"istance                  0.3       0.9        1.0       0.6        0.3       0.1       0.0        3.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                     5.3      22.7       29.5      31.3        5.4       1.0       0.2       95.4
.................................................................................................................
Vatues Seated by 1000000.0  3/24/1992  16:40



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
Islamic Republic of Iran
Tehran Drainage Project
Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange / Local / Taxes
US S
World Cank  Government        Total
....................................
Amount      Amount       Amount
I   Foreign                          76.9          0.0        76.9
11  Local (ExcL. Taxes)               0.0         18.5        18.5
III Taxes                             0.0          0.0         0.0
....................................
Total Project                        76.9         18.5        95.4
.................................................................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/24/1992 16:40
Islamic Republic of Iran
Tehran Drainage Project
Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
us S
World Bank        Government          Total                   Local
............................... ....................    For.    tExc.  Duties
Amount     X      Amount     X      Amount     %       Exch.   Taxes)   & Tax.
A . Civil Works                       73.4    80.8      17.5    19.2      90.9    95.3       73.4     17.5       0.0
B . Consultants & Studies              2.9    75.8       0.9    24.2       3.8      4.0       2.9      0.9       0.0
C . Equipment                          0.6    88.0       0.1    12.0       0.7      0.7       0.6      0.1       0.0
D . Land                               0.0      0.0      0.0   100.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Disbursement                    76.9    80.6      18.5    19.4      95.4   100.0      76.9      18.5       0.0
............................................................................................................
Vatues Sceled by 1000000.0 3/24/1992 16:40



- 38 -
ANNEX: 3
Islamic Republic of Iran
Tehran Drainage Project
Disbursement by Financier by Semester
us S
World   Governm
Bank     ent      Total
....................
Amount   Amount   Amount
Semester
1      2.3      0.4       2.6
2      2.3       0.4      2.6
3      9.6       1.7     11.3
4      9.6       1.7     11.3
5     12.1       2.7     14.8
6     12.1       2.7     14.8
7     12.5       3.1     15.6
8     12.5       3.1     15.6
9      1.6       1.1      2.7
10      1.6       1.1      2.7
11      0.2       0.3      0.5
12      0.2       0.3      0.5
13      0.0       0.1      0.1
14      0.0       0.1      0.1
......... ..............
TOTAL          76.9     18.5      95.4
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/24/1992 16:40



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
No. of     Procurement   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   199 /96   1996/97   1997/98
PROJECT COMPONENTS             Contracts      Method     Ö_Ö_
1   2     1   2     1   2      1   2     1   2     1   2
A.  Civil Works
1.  Khayam Tunnel                   1           ICB       0000 0000
2.  3rd Outlet Tunnel                .          ICB       0000 0000
3.  3rd Outlet Open Channel                                                                                                w
pipe and Reservoir            1           LCB       0000 0000
4.  Lateral Drains                 N.A.         LCB                  0000
5.  Inlet Structures               N.A.         LCB                 0000
6.  Land Acquisition               N.A.         DC        0000
B.  Equipment                          N.A.        IS/DC                 0000 0000
C.  Project Management                 N.A.        DC/OTH     0000
D.  Technical Assistance and
Training                         N.A.        DC/OTH               0000
oooo - Procurement
-  Implementation, 4elivery
t'2



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
Project Sugervision Forecast
Bank Fiscal Year         Staff/Consultant SReciality          Staff Weeks
1993              Civil/Sanitary Engineer                     4
Financial Analyst                          2
Tunneling Consultant                       4
1994              Civil/Sanitary Engineer                     4
Financial Analyst                          2
Tunneling Consultant                       4
1995              Civil/Sanitary Engineer                     4
Financial Analyst                          2
Tunneling Consultant                       4
1996              Civil/Sanitary Engineer                     4
Financial Analyst                          2
1997              Civil/Sanitary Engineer                     4
Financial Analyst                          2
1998              Civil/Sanitary Engineer                     4
Financial Analyst                          2
1999              Civil/Sanitary Engineer                     2
Financial Analyst                          2



- 41 -
ANNEX 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN DPAINAGE PROJECT
Project Implementation Program and Monitoring Indicators
Proiect Imnlementation Program
Actions                                       Tar8et Date        Done by
1.  Complete First Package of Tender Documents  July 31, 1992         TDE/MEF
2.  Strengthen the PIU                             Aug. 31, 1992       TDE/MEF
3.  Submit to Bank Land Acquisition Program        Sep. 30, 1992      TDE/MEF
4.  Submit First Progress Report                   Dec. 31, 1992       TDE/MEF
5.  Provide Bank Report on Projected Revenues   Feb. 21, 1993         TDE
and Expenditures
6.  Complete Land Acquisition                      Dec. 31, 1993       TDE
7.  Provide Bank Financial Management Study        Sept. 30, 1993    TDE/MEF
8.  Provide Bank First Annual Audit Report         Sept. 30, 1993    TDE/MEF
9.  Submit Mid-Term Progress Report                Jan. 15, 1995       TDE
10. Provide Bank Municipal Finance Study           Dec. 31, 1993      TDE/MEF
11. Submit Project Completion Report               March 31, 1999    TDE/MEF
Monitoring Indicators
Indicator                                                 e
1. Contract Awards/Signing (Major Contracts)
(a) Tunnels                                        June 30, 1993
(b) Third Outlet Structures/Pipe/Channel           July 31, 1993
2. Completion of Major Contracts:
(a) Tunnels                                        June 30, 1997
(b) Third Outlet Structures/Pipe/Channel          Apr. 30, 1997
3.  Start Implementation of Financial Management            March 21, 1994
and Revenue Enhancement Program
4.  Complete all Contracts                                  June 30, 1998



-42-                                                 ANNEX  7
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
Tehran Municipality Organizagional Chart
T CflY  ~1ACITY COUNCIL
IJ                ~       I
MA OR
COINSPECTION ORGRZAT.ON                                                   M      CYTY SE VICE
|   SECURlTY         IFIREDEARMNT
PUBMM                                                                    UDSMANDL
RVINERNATIONALAffAIRS                                                    Oml 
CotaissioN FMC Y                                                PARKSDEPARTPMENT
ß   TO CITY PiJNNS                     OMSIAN                          C EXPANSITNE
|   MUNICIPALITY OIS YRICrWT YIRO PRi                               8      EATCOIINCILFOR
MANPOWER PLANININGPUM1LICSTRRELATIONSTRAFFIC PRORAG
DEPUT MAoROlNllwNYOR                      MAYOR                            DEPYtTY MAYOR
TRFIiATINSP   & PR~OGRM              PIANENADION CUND                            VEHICES
| OMPUTERS ERVICES                     RVN AFFOF  IONT8KILLEOIDEV|LOP
_RAFFIC DIVISION           DEPUTY. MAYOR                     EINEDEPRIGCNT
ADMINIITRATION           BUILDIN  WORK IEY RCH                      ORGANIRTMON
.TRAINING                           (UNSKILLEDO)                     FPANCE OEARTIONT
| SUOGET & PLANG              |       FNANPALM OFN                             A REMNOEAIES
|     TUDfES a  PRORG RAN G T                    ROOS I  VWOOUESALN IAKS
r                                        COOPERATVEYAE    PO ES                BATIFATION
MAINPOWER PLANING          l      p       PUBLIC RELAT1NS                        COLD STORAGE
LEGAL DIVISION                    GARSAGE C      G
TRANSPORT . .T.A_                      PENSION FUND CEHCANGE
BUS COMPANY        -        r       REVENUE OMSIT N                   TECN   .   E- E
|   TRAFFIC DMSION        |UM iClllXODE & cm ARC.    |                        NGEROMIATING
| TENRANMETROOORet"                       cmBUD1OUO                                   IITAtO
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
COMMUON FRCHNGES  a



- 43 -
ANNEX 
Page 1 of 8
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
PROPOSED TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
SUPPORTING CONSULTING SERVICES
A. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT STUDY
BACKGROUN
1.      Tehran is one of the world's larger metropolitan areas. Therefore, its
governance and delivery of public services is, inevitably, a large and complex
operation. A major participant in this activity is the Tehran Municipality.
2.      The Tehran Municipality is negotiating a loan from the World Bank to
install and expand the surface water drainage system for the municipal area.
Expenditures for the resultant debt service, together with the expenses of
operation and maintenance of the system, after installation, will be the
responsibility of the Municipality. These expenditures are to be covered from
general taxation and other revenues available to the Municipality.
3.      In addition to assuming a much greater role than hitherto for the
drainage system, the Municipality is already providing a variety of other public
services.  However, during the past decade or so, the Municipality has been
seriously constrained in the fulfillment of its mandate, for a variety of well-
known reasons affecting the nation as a whole. This has meant that the
Municipality has been delivering services at less than the optimum level, and
leaving a backlog of unfulfilled projects, intended to rehabilitate, renew and
expand its infrastructure. It now intends to address an enhanced variety of
concerns. These will compete for the limited financial and economic resources
available to the Municipality, as well as for the correspondingly limited
operational and administrative capability.
OBJECTIVES
4.      Given  the  substantial  growth  taking place  in  the Municipality's
activities and further growth foreseen in the near future, the objectives of this
study are:
a.    to examaine the present system of financial management
and controls;
b.    to recommend improvements consistent with the most up-
to-date financial practices; and,
c.    following acceptance of the recommendations, provide
initial assistance in the implementation of the Lmproved
financial management systems.



- 44 -
AMNEX 8
Page 2 of 8
ARRANGEMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
5.      Because of the direct and substantial effect of this technical assistance
on the overall operations of the Municipality, it is intended to establish an
internal Committee, reporting to the Mayor. It will be chaired by the Deputy
Mayor in charge of the "Administration and Finance Executive" and will contain
representatives, inter alia, of: the other "Executives" of the Municipality;
representatives of the District Mayors; selected representatives from the
accounting profession outside the Municipality; and, representatives from the
department(s) of the Central Government responsible for local government finance.
6.      The consultants carrying out this assignment will be expected to report
to the Committee. It should assist the Committee in drawing up its own
recommendations to the Mayor and the Municipal Council. The Committee itself
will, however, have no executive authority to implement the recommendations. This
will require executive orders by the Mayor or resolutions of the Municipal
Council.
7.      After the necessary approvals are forthcoming, however, the Committee
will be expected to supervise the initial implementation of its proposals, with
the assistance of the consultants.
8.      In addition to members of the Committee, the Mayor will nominate a team
of officials, from the administrative, financial and operational domains of the
Municipality, who will be responsible for providing all information requested and
required by the consultants.
SCOPE OF WORK
9.      The consultants will start by reviewing the organizational structure of
the Municipality at the headquarters level, the different "Executives", and the
District levels, with particular emphasis on reviewing the following financial
aspects of the overall operations and linkages amongst the various parts of the
municipality:
a.    accounting principles and practices being followed;
b.    revenue collection system;
c.    expenditure accounting and control systems;
d.    budgeting system (both current and capital budgets);
e.    inventory managemert system;
f.    cost accounting system;
g.    debt management system;
h.    financial reporting systems (periodic and annual);
i.    systems for financial control and audit.



- 45 -
ANNEX 8
Pag,e 3 of 8
10.     Following the review, the consultants should prepare a report for the
Committee, indicating present shortcomings in the financial management system at
various levels of the Municipality, together with specific recommendations for
their remedy.
11.     Consultants should consider and report upon whether and to what extent
the present system of financial management should be further centralized or
decentralized and whether any changes in the administrative structure could
contribute to improved financial management.
12.     The consultants should comment comprehensively on the systems of
financial management to ensure that the concerns of accountability for
stewardship and performance are optimally addressed. The report should also make
recommendations for the installation and use of comprehensive and computerized
financial management information systems, how the various levels and branches of
the Municipality can be integrated into this system, and the estimated cost and
time required to install these systems.
13.     The consultants should indicate whether any formal changes will be
necessary to implement new proposals, whether administrative, regulatory or
legislative. Based on discussions with the counterparts, the consultants should
indicate a tentative time schedule for achievement of any necessary formal
procedures.
14.     Once the proposals have been referred back to the Committee for
implementation, the consultants should assist with the design of any necessary
new procedures/manuals or the modification of existing procedures/manuals.
iS.     The consultants should assist wlth the selection and installation of new
management information systems and the training of the staff to operate these.
Training should also be given to operational managers in the understanding and
appreciation of financial information developed by the systems and its use for
prompt and effective action.
QUALIFICATION AND EXPERIENCE OF CONSULTANTS
16.     Ccnsultants should ideally be a consortium of Iranian and foreign
firms/experts experienced in advising on and developing systems of financial
management for large municipal organizations. Their combined experience should
cover a variety of developed and developing countries, including countries
similar in political structure, history and culture to that of Iran. Some members
of the team should be experienced in training staff in up-to-date systems of
local government accounting, budgeting, and auditing.
TIME SCHEDULE
17.     The consultant is expected to start work in               . The initial
review period is expected to take about 3 months during which monthly progress
reports are expected to be submitted to the Committee.   The preparation of
revised and improved systems should take about 4 months. The Committee will take
about 2 months to review the proposals, after which the consultants will finalize
the proposals within 1 month. The time necessary to install the revised systems
and to train staff can be negotiated thereafter.



- 46 -
ANX 8
Page 4 of 8
B. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR MUNICIPAL FINANCE STUDY
BACKGROUND
1.    Tehran is one of the world's larger metropolitan arias.  Therefore, its
governance and delivery of publlc servlces is, inevitably, a' large and complex
operation. A major participant in this activity is the Tehran Municipality.
2.    The Tehran Municipality is negotiating a loan from the World Bank for
financing a proposed project to improve and enhance the operation of the surface
water drainage system for the municipal area. The implementation of the project
would be the responsibility of the Municipality of Tehran. The project is
proposed to be financed by a loan from the World Bank to cover the foreign
exchange costs of the project and supplemented by funds from the Municipality to
cover the local costs. Expenditures on the resultant debt service, together with
the expenses of operation and maintenence of the system, after installation,
would be the responsibility of the Municipality. These expenditures are expected
to be covered from the general taxation and other revenues available to the
Municipality. Direct cost recovery will be neither possible nor appropriate.
3.    In addition to assuming a much greater role than hitherto for the drainage
system, the Municipality is already providing a variety of other public services.
However, during the past decade or so, the Municipality has been seriously
constrained in the fulfillment of its mandate, because of a variety of well-known
reasons. This has meant that the Municipality has been delivering services at
'ass than the optimum level, as well as leaving a backlog of unfulfilled
projects, intended to rehabilitate, renew and expand its infrastructure and
equipment. It now intends to address an enhanced variety of concerns. These will
compete for the limited financial and economic resources available to the
Municipality, as well as for the correspondingly limited operational and
administrative capability.
4.    A particular concern is that the Nunicipality's revenue base has not grown
in recent years, at a pace or in a pattern necessary either to fulfill its
current mandate or to provide funds for expansion and enhancement. Furthermore,
the Municipality relies upon a great variety of taxation and other revenue
sources, not all of which are equally productive, relative to costs of
collection. Finally, there has been a significant reduction in the earlier level
of financial support provided by Government, through grants and otherwise. This
has obliged the Municipality to concentrate more intensively upon revenue sources
raised locally, under its own legal authority.
OBJECTIVES
5.    To enable the Municipality to proceed with its tasks, it needs to be
assured that its available revenue sources, taken together, are capable of
enabling it to operate at an optimal level of efficiency, economy and
effectiveness. It therefore seeks technical assistance to examine and report on
lts overall capacity to ralse revenues sufficient to fulfill its mandate as the
principal public service delivery entity of the metropolitan area of Tehran. Such
technical assistance would be expected to make recommendations for appropriate
improvements and alterations and to provide initial assistance in their
implementation.



- 47 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 8
ARRANGEMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
6.    Because of the direct and substantial effect of this technical assistance
on the overall operations of the Municipality, it intends to establish a
Committee, reporting to the Mayor. It will be chaired by a senior official
nominal:ed by the Mayor and will contain representatives, inter alia, of:
financial, administrative and operational staff; residents of the city; and, the
business community. It is expected that the committee will also include
representation from the department(s) of the central government responsible for
local government support and supervision.
7.    The consultants carrying out this assignment will be expected to report to
the Committee. Furthermore, the consultants will also be expected to assist the
Committee in drawing up its recommendations to the Mayor and the Municipality.
The Committee itself will, however, have no executive authority to implement the
recommendations. This will require: executive orders by the Mayor; resolutions
of the Municipal Council; approval by government; and/or national legislative
authority.
8.   After the necessary approvals are forthcoming, however, the Committee will
be expected to supervise the initial implementation of its proposals, with the
assistance of the consultants.
9.     In addition to members of the Committee, the Mayor will nominate a team
of officials, from the financial and other departments of the Municipality, who
will be responsible for providing all information requested and required by the
consultants. This will be expected to include, as necessary, translations of
documents from the Persian language.
SCOPE OF WORK
General
10.    The consultants will examine the various sources of revenue available or
potentially available to the Municipality, with the intention of determining
their suitability for the financirrg of its services. They will then make
recommendations as to potentials for improvement of the Municipality's revenues
and resources.
11.    In making their recommendations, the consultants will be expected to seek
appropriate and feasible compromise among a number of partially conflicting
objectives. These will include the following:
a.    Direct Cost Recovery - Whenever a service can be seen to be received
by individual consume.s, they should, in principle, pay for it on
the basis of full cost recovery, unless the perceived benefit to the
community is clearly asses&ed as greater than that for the
individual customer. It is nbl.ther economically efficient nor
socially equitable for services supplied on an individual basis to
be subsidized by those who do not - or cannot - use them. If this
happens, users will be undercharged and will tend to use more of the
services than if charged the full-cost-recovery price.



- 48 -
Page 6 of 8
b.    Adeguacy of Yield - The proposals must be capable of fulfilling
their primary purpose, that of raising revenue for the operations of
the Municipality. In this respec_, they must yield adequate revenues
n=£ of all costs of co',lection. In addition, the adequacy of the
revenues must be assessed against three other tests:
i.    Buoyancy - an ability to increase in a manner consistent with
the economic activity of the community, without the necessity
for frequent changes in rates.
iU.   Stability - the linking of revenues to a stable base, not
fluctuating (say) with levels of activity - such as property
development - not directly consistent with levels of municipal
operations.
iii.  Growtb - revenues should expand in proportion to the expansion
of demand or delivery of municipal services.
c.    Eguitv - The revenues should be distributed as fairly as possible in
proportion to both ability to pay and the rece!pt of public
services. It is also important to ensure a Rublic perception of
fairness.
d.    Economic Efficiency - The imposition of the taxes or charges should
have a minimum detrimental effect upon the economic activity to
which they relate and upon the more general economic activity of the
community. If possible, the taxes or charges should also encourage
economic efficiency, especially appropriete for public utility
charges.
e.    Political Accentability - The revenues to be raised should be
reasonably acceptable by the public. However, since taxes and
charges - or increases therein - are usually disliked, attempts
should be made to ensure at least the minimum political resistance,
especially so as not to inhibit the actual process of l.bvy and
collection.
f.    Administrative Convenience and Cost - Taxes or charges should be as
easy as possible to levy and to collect. They should also not be so
costly to collect as to limit their n= impact as viable revenue
sources. These cost and convenience principles relate not only to
the relationship with the taxpayer or customer. They may also relate
to any potential legislative, regulatory, political or litigative
activity necessary to establish and to levy the taxes or charges.
g.    Local Accountability - An important principle of local taxation is
that revenues collected locally - i.e. by the MunicipalLty - are
perceived by the payers as being spent on activities related to
their locality or community. There should be minimum appropriation
for wider local or national purposec.



- 49 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 8
Snecific
12.    The consultants will be expected to examine the following specific
matters, related to the levy of taxes or charges:
h.    general or specific legal authority for each of the revenues;
i.    mechanisms   -  including   data-base   management   -  for   the
identification, registration, assessment, levy, collection and
follow-up of revenues;
j.    procedures for accounting and financial control, including internal
audi" and security;
k.    procedures for the making of revenue forecasts, especially for
budgetary purposes, including tests of their reliability and/or
volatility;
1.    sample surveys of major revenue sources, including observations of
(and interviews with) individual customers and taxpayers;
m.    sources of borrowing, especially long-term borrowing for capital
expenditure and temporary borrowing available pending the receipt of
revenues;
n.    opportunities for sharing of revenue sources with other levels or
departments of government, especially the central gcivernment;
o.    possibilities for the development of a stable and rational system of
support from the central government through: general or specific
grants, loans for capital development, revenue-sharing, revenue
surcharges, and, assigned revenues;
p.    potentials  for  stability,  growth  and  buoyancy,  related  to
differently postulated levels of economic activity; and,
q.    other aspects of revenue efficiency, related to the principles
outlined in para 13 above.
13.    The consultants should prepare a report for the Committee, indicating
present shortcomings in revenue collections, together with recommendations for
their .emedy. They should also report upon the most promising recommendations for
the enhancement of municipal revenues, consistent with the principles of revenue
efficiency.
14.    The consultants should indicate what formal changes will be necessary to
implement new proposals, whether administrative, regulatory or legislative. Based
on discussions with their counterparts and with central government officials, the
consultants should indicate a tentative time-schedule for the achievement of the
necessary formal procedures, including a program for the training of suitable
Municipal staff to operate and manage the revised system.



- 50 -
\                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 8
15.    The consultants report should provide speculative estimates of revenues
from the various sources, for a period of approximately five years, based on
reasonable assumptions about the achievements of formal procedures. These
assessments should be made sensitive to various likely levels of economic
activity.
16.    Once  the proposals have been  referred back  to the Committee  for
implementation, the consultants should assist with the initial design of any
necessary new procedures or modification of existing procedures to enhance
efficiency of revenue levy and collection.
OUALIFICATION AND EXPERIENCE OF CONSULTANTS
17.    Consultants should ideally be a consortium of Iranian and foreign
consultants experienced in advising on and developing systems of local government
revenue. Their combined experience should cover a variety of developed and
developing countries, including countries similar in political structure, history
and culture to that of Iran. Some members of the team should also be experienced
in local government accounting, financial management and auditing.
TIME SCHEDULE
18.    The consultant is expected to start work in              and complete the
assignment in eight months. In the course of carrying out the assignment, the
consultant is expected to submit periodic reports to the Committee to report on
the progress of work and to seek guidance on specific matters.



- 51 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
TABLE 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRA'SAL REPORT
TEHRAN MUNICIPALITY - REVENUES AND EXPENDITURE
MILLIONS OF RIALS]
"ear
Item                1988     1989      1990     1991      1992
..--..Actual  ------ Proj.-----
Revenues
Property Taxes & charges           13710    16410   120708   231140   187458
Professional Taxes                  9325    10755    12239    16572    56987
Motor Vehicle Taxes                16280    16320    13289    32000    41703
Charges on Imports                   300      600       281      420       180
Special Service Charges             2362     3002      6235    17427         0
Ownership Charges                   1597     1562      1542     1800      5000
Misc. Charges                       8991    13893    12300    10232    39700
Contributions and Aid               7217     3000        65      200      5000
Subsidies                           3000     4080       448        0         0
Total Revenue                      62782    69622   167107   309791   336028
Expenditures
Salaries and Wages                 37119    41126    47816    83024    87754
Transport & Communications           395      269       173      732       740
Rent                                 566      493      4760     6198    13486
Utilities                           1524     1568      1264     2116      3645
Administration                      2924     3096      3435     6438      7668
Aid to Public Sector                 450        0      1400     9970    13300
Aid to Private Sector                350      255      1035     2286      2415
Bldg. and Major Eqmt.               3779     3975      1232     5074    10393
Interest                               0      402       400      310       300
Total Expenditure                  47107    51184    61515   116148   139701
Surplus[Deficit]           15675    18438   105592   193643   196327



- 52 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
TABLE 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TEHRAN MUNICIPALITY EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
(MILLIONS OF RIALS)
Description                                 YEAR
1988     1989     1990      1991     1992
------- Actual- -------    ...Proj.------
Public Service Program             1272     1277      2715    13177    10200
Urban Plaiming and Design           150       150      150     1900       150
Roads and Traffic Improvements    9031      9460    57043    75532   113350
City Beautification Program        1702     1495      3630     5218      9500
Green Space Program                1650     1850    17635    29839    38300
Emergency & Rescue Prog.           2700     2800      3066     7595     9300
Social & Cultural Services          200      200         0        0         0
Other Public Facilities             610      740      1500    25046    12000
Miscellaneous Expenditures          460      468         0     3834         0
Aid to Other Divisions*               0         0    19485    31500      3500
TOTAL            17775    18440   105224   193641   196300
*Includes Park Orgn., Traffic Orgn.,
Bus Company, remote areas, etc.



- 53 -
Annex-1Q
Page 1 of 5
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.            In the absence of the project, the flooding in the central
parts of Tehran and in Shahr-e-Rey would continue to become more severe as
urban development continues in the Tehran area. In particular, additional
drainage works in the central part of Tehran would, without the Third Outlet
canal to be constructed under the project, channel more storm water flows
towards the Shahr-e-Rey area to the South.
2.            Sections of the central part of Tehran are flooded several
times a year, and, during these floods, normal economic activity ceases, and
costs are incurred due to emergency activities. The proposed Khayam Main
Drain, to be constructed under the project, would drain the central part of
Tehran, and convey stormwater to the Firouzabad Canal. The flow would then be
diverted, less than two kilometers downstream from this intersection, into the
proposed Third Outlet canal, which would convey the water away from the
inhabited area of Shahr-e-Rey, to the Kan river.
3.            The Firouzabad canal currently receives surface water drainage
from the western section of Tehran, and from the jube system in the Khayam
catchment area in the central part of Tehran. Because of its location,
adjacent to the lowest part of Tehran, sections of Shahr-e-Rey are subject to
flooding whenever a major rain occurs in Tehran. These floods cause 5 to 10
hours of total disruption in the town, and substantial damage to crops in
nearby agricultural areas, each time they occur.
4.            Although originally a natural canal, the Firouzabad canal has
been reinforced over a large portion of its length, and sections in Shahr-e-
Rey are now in underground tunnels. Rapid development of Tehran has resulted
in increasingly heavy flows in the canal, which overspills its banks several
times a year. The reinforcements are now seriously eroded, and there has been
substantial damage to numerous buildings along its length. One building on
top of the underground tunnel section of the canal, located within the main
large roundabout in the center of Shahr-e-Rey, has already collapsed, and many
others are in imminent danger of collapsing.
5.            Two other major drainage works are currently under
construction, and, as they will contribute to flows, particularly through
Shahr-e-Rey, they are a factor to be taken into account in considering the
benefits of the proposed project. The Navab Main Drain, parallel to the
northern sections of the Firouzabad canal, will collect runoff from the area
directly to the east of the Firouzabad catchment area in Tehran; it will
connect with the Firouzabad canal when construction is complete. In addition,
a drain (inverted siphon) has been constructed in the Railway Station area in
south central Tehran, which is subject to flooding several times a year. When



- 54 -
Qnnex 10
Page 2 of 5
these two drains become operational, they will add substantially to the flows
in the Firouzabad canal. In this situation, maximum discharge flow of the
canal for a five year return period would be about 20 m3/sec, and the entire
area subject to flooding would have to be evacuated. Although the severity of
the situation could be alleviated by the construction of a temporary drain,
the danger of flooding would be transferred to lower areas of Shahr-e-Rey. As
the town develops, the economic costs of a temporary solution of this kind
would escalate.
6.            The Project costs and benefits described below are for the base
case scenario, which is based on the economy-wide shadow exchange rate of
Rls 920/US$.
Project Costs
7.            The capital costs of the project include those of civil works,
land, vehicles and equipment, design, and supervision. Physical contingencies
are included at 10 for civil works, and 5X for the other components.
Operation, and maintenance costs are included over the life of the project,
estimated at 50 years. Cost streams are net of taxes.
Project Benefits
8.            Project benefits are those attributable to:-
Mi)     reduction in flood occurrence in the Khayam area of downtown
Tehran; and
(ii)    reduction in flood occurrence in Shahr-e-Rey.
Estimation of Benefits
9.            The benefits attributable to reductions in flooding in the
heavily populated sections of both the Khayam area of Tehran and Shahr-e-Rey
includo the savings in costs related to flood damage to buildings and
infrastructure, and in the costs of manpower for emergency preparation and
clean-up. The costs of flood damage to the Tehran Railway Station in the
southern part of the Khayam area are also constitute a benefit. In Shahr-e-
Rey, additional benefits are associated with the costs of the damage sustained
by buildings along the Firouzabad canal, and of damage to agricultural crops
during flooding.
10.           The benefits from the two flood areas can therefore be
attributed to a reduction of:
(a)     damage to houses and other buildings;
(b)     damage to warehouse stocks;
(c)     damage to bridges, sidewalks and streets;
(d)     costs associated with removing sediments and debris;



- 55 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 5
(e)     damage to telephone infrastructure;
(f)     time spent in preparing for floods, and in clean-up operations;
(g)     damage to Tehran Railway Station;
(h)     damage to properties along the old Firouzabad canal;
(i)     damage to crops in the Shahr-e-Rey area; and
(j)     disruption to economic activity.
11.           Estimates of the above types of damages related to floods of
various frequencies (from several times a year to 30-year floods) were used to
calculate annual average flood damage, as shown in Table 1. In the case of
the Khayam area, the frequent flood is assumed to occur four times a year; in
Shahr-e-Rey, the assumption is six times per year. Damage estimates for
buildings, stocks, bridges, sidewalks and streets, are mission estimates,
based on compensation claims received by municipality staff, and on cost
estimates by engineers, all adjusted to 1992 prices. DAmage to telephone
infrastructure has been estimated by telephone company staff, and is based on
the number of underground boxes and lengths of cable damaged and the cost of
draining boxes and repairs. Lost economic activity due to traffic disruption
is calculated on the basis of length of traffic disruption, composition of
traffic (types of vehicles), their average occupancy; the number of occupant
hours is then multiplied by the assumed wage rate (Rlss 1500/hr in Tehran, and
Rlss 700 in Shahr-e-Rey). A rate of Rlss 700/hr is used to estimate time
spent in flood preparation and clean-up. Properties along the canal (150
houses) are assumed to be lost over a ten year period; average value is
estimated at Rls 60 million.
The Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivitv Analysis
12.           The estimated economic rate of return based on the above-
mentioned assumptions (the base case scenario) is 22.91. The estimate is very
robust; a one-year delay in benefits reduces it to about 201; and a 201
reduction in benefits combined with a 201 increase in costs gives an ERR of
about 161. The estimates are conservative in that they include only the
measurable benefits listed above. The project, however, will contribute
towards improved water resource management in the Tehran area in several ways,
each of which would produce benefits.
Other Benefits
13.           The Shahria, and Robot-Karim Water Conveyor Scheme.  About
10,000 hectares of fertile, arable land in the Shahriar and Robot-Karim area,
about 30 km from Tehran, used to be irrigated by water from the Karaj River.
Since the construction of a dam on the river, in order to use the river as a
source for Teheran's water supply, irrigatlon has ceased, and crops have had
to depend on rainwater. Yields have decreased greatly as a result. There are
plans to convey groundwater from points in western Tehran, where groundwater
tables are high, to this agricultural area. By using the proposed project
tunnel to convey the excess groundwater during dry weather periods, rather
than the original plan of constructing a conveyor tunnel in a westerly
direction across Tehran, substantial costs savings in the conveyor tunnel



- 56 -
Annex ul
Page 4 of 5
could be realized. Under this arrangement, the project tunnel would convey
the water to within 20 km of the agricultural area, and an open channel would
be constructed for this remainlng distance. If the total cost of the
origlnally planned conveyor, minus the cost of the 20 km open channel, were
considered a beneflt attrlbutable to the project, the ERR for the base case
scenarLo would lncrease to about 30 percent.
14.             The Lowering of the Groundwater Table ln the Shahr-a-Rey Are.
ThLs would be a substantial project beneflt, although difflcult to quantify.
The project would also enable the storm water runoff to be dlverted to the
west, where there is the posslbillty of artlficlally recharglng other parts of
the plaln west of Iran, through the Karaj rLver bed.
15.   At present, because of the lack of a sewerage system ln the Tehran area,
storm water flows contaln sewage and waseewater from commerce and small
lndustry. Floodlng spreads the danger of contamination of pollutants ln the
wastewater, and is a substantial health risk. The water from the Flrouzabad
canal, which li known to contaln many kinds of pathogens and some heavy
metals, as well as sludge extracted from a local iLnformal" drylng pond using
polluted storm water dralnage, ls used on vegetable crops in the agJrLcultural
area near Shahr-e-Rey. Slnce many of these vegetables are consumed raw
(lettuces, radlshes, etc.), thls is an extremly unhealthy situatlon. The
dlverslon of the major storm water flows away from the area would
substantially reduce the health rlsk to the population subject to flooding,
and to the consumers of these vegetables ln Tehran and other areas.
TAILE 1: CALCLqATION OF BENEfITS
freqwnt Flood  I in 5 Year Flood 1 In 30 Year Flood    Total Anual Av. DmOges
1.~~ ~ ~ ~ .KA                                                        .               .MA
Bul dings                           200              2240          149.33                   5189.3
Stows                                168            134.4              8                     310.4
Bridge, etc.                       716.8            171.3            38.2                   926.3
Tlseph4ns, etc.                    2t8.8            64.5             14.3                   347.6
sUdi.Anttion renlval               241.9             58.1            12.9                   312.9
Time "pet, prep. a cleanup         76.4             183.5            40.8                    988.7
Rol i *y station di.                 336             80.6            17.9                   434.5
Trcafic disrWtion                  4415.8          1059.8           294.4                   570. 0
Total Alwl Av. Costs Averted                                                             14279.7
11.5 UNLR-.rL
Buildings                           6048           114.2            322.6                   7516.8
Stocks                               170            134.4             9.1                    313.5
Bridges, etc.                       1792            43C.1             9.6                   2231.7
Telephone, etc.                      140             33.6             7.5                    181.1
Sdwimentation rinoval                336             80.6            17.9                    434.5
Tim spent, prop. * cleoaup           249             59.8            13.2                     322
Traffic disruption                   218             52.3            11.6                    281.9
Prorties Mar cal                    900                                                      90C
AgriCtltural crops                  106.4            25.5             5.7                    137.6
Total Aal  Av. Coats Averted                                                             U219.1



TABLE 2: ECONONIC RATE Of RETtRt CALCtLATION
(RL millions)
YEAR     1992/93  93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99  99/2000 2001/02. 02/03   03/04   04/05
COSTS
Civil Works
Khaym Drain Pipe                 0      248     842      228       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Khaym Tunnul                  2260    9632   11658   11880        540       0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Third 0tlet  TunneL           2160    8647   10164    9972    1128          0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Third Outlet Chuw1               0        0      86      454      94        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Third Outlet Pipe                0        0     281      864     850        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Storage Reservoir                0        0      72      230      29        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Laterals                         0        0       0       32     327      390       75       0       0        0        0       0
Nisceltaneous Structures         0        0       0        7      86       58        7       0       0        0        0       0
Total Civil Works               4420   18528   23103   23667    3053        448      82        0       0        0       0        0
Pbysical Contingencies         442    1853    2310    2367        305      45       8        0        0       0        0       0
Land Acquisition                                   20
Equipent and Vehicles              0        0       0        0  519.12        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
Project anagement                 72      108    93.6    93.6    93.6    93.6        36        0       0        0        0       0
Technical Assistance             234      468     468      468     234    93.6        0        0       0        0       0        0
Studies                            0      288   345.6        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
operation and Naintenunce          0        0       0        0       0        0      144     144      144     144      1S4     144
TOTAL COSTS                       5168   21245   26340   26595    4205        680     270      144      144     144      144     144
BEMEFITS                                                                                                                                                   "
Khaym Area of Tehran
Buildings                                                      2594.7  5189.3  5189.3  5189.3  5189.3  5189.3  5189.3  5189.3
Stoeks                                                          155.2   310.4   310.4   310.4   310.4   310.4   310.4   310.4
8rhdbes, sidewalks, streets                                     463.2   926.3   926.3   926.3   926.3   926.3   926.3   926.3
Telephone Infrastructure                                        173.8   347.6   347.6   347.6   347.6   347.6   347.6   347.6
Sediment, debris reoval                                         156.5   312.9   312.9   312.9   312.9   312.9   312.9   312.9
Tim spent, prep., clean-up                                      494.4   988.7   988.7   988.7   988.7   988.7   988.7   988.7
Traffic disruption                                             2885.0    5770    5770 57Z0 5770    57               577     5770
Railway statlen damag                                           217.3   434.5   434.5   434.5   434.5   434.5   434.5   434.5
Total Benefits, Khayw                                        7139.9  14279.7 14279.7 14279.7 14279.7 14279.7 14279.7 14279.7
Shahr-e-Ray
Suitdinsp                                                      3758.4  7516.8  7516.8  7516.8  7516.8  7516.8  7516.8  7516.8
Stocks                                                          156.8   313.5   313.5   313.5   313.5   313.5   313.5   313.5
Bridges, sidewalks, streets                                    1115.9  2231.7  2231.7  2231.7  2231.7  2231.7  2231.7  2231.7
Telephone infrastructure                                        90.6   181.1   181.1   181.1   181.1   181.1   181.1   181.1
Sediment, debris removal                                        217.3   434.5   434.5   434.5   434.5   434.5   434.5   434.5
Time spent; prep., clean-up                              *      161.0   322.0   322.0   322.0   322.0   322.0   322.0   322.0
Traffic disruption                                              141.0   281.9   281.9   281.9   281.9   281.9   281.9   281.9
Properties near canal                                           450.0   900.0   900.0   900.0   900.0   900.0   900.0   900.0
Agricultural crops                                               68.8   137.6   137.6   137.6   137.6   137.6   137.6   137.6
Total Benefits Shahr-e-Ray                                  6159.55  12319.1  12319.1  12319.1  12319.1  12319.1  12319.1  12319.1     ii
TOTAL BENEFITS                                                    13299.4 26598.8 26598.8 26598.8 26598.8 26598.8 26598.8 26598.8             ∞ o
-Met Benefits                   -5168.1 -21244.5 -26340.1 -26595.4  9094.6 25919.0 26328.5 26454.8 26454.8 26454.8 26454.8 26454.8
Econmic Rate of Return        0.2D8847
..... ....... ...... .......... ............... .



- 58 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF_IRAN
TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
Environmental Analysis
Introduction
1.          An environmental analysis (EA) was carried out by local
consultants in accordance with terms-of-reference provided by the Bank in
August 1991.   A draft EA report and a number of reports on the project
studies were reviewed by the appraisal mission. The mission also met with
concerned local authorities and visited the proposed routes for tunnels,
pipes, open channels and the retention reservoir.
Project Descrigtion
2.          The proposed project is a part of the area-wide surface water
drainage system of the city of Tehran. It would cover a service area of about
80 km2 of the city center and would benefit about 200 km2 to the south, an
area subject to flooding. The project components include a main collector
drain along Khayam street consisting of about 10.8 km. tunnel ranging in size
from 2.80 to 3.30 m. inside diameter, and 3.5 km. pipe ranging in size from
1400 to 1600 mm inside diameter; a Third Outlet main drain consisting of about
6.6 km. tunnel of 4.80 m. inside diameter, about 1.6 km of a 3.00x4.00x8.00 m.
trapezoidal shape open channel, a retention reservoir of about 600,000 m3 net
storage capacity, and about 6.8 km. pipe of 2000 mm inside diameter; a system
of lateral drains, catch basins and inlet/drop structures; the provision of
maintenance equipment; and the provision of technical assistance for carrying
out a study of sources of municipal revenue and for developing and
implementing a municipal finance management system, and for construction
supervision. the project would be implemented over a period of about six
years. The total project cost is estimated at about Rls 133.5 billion or
about US$95.6 million equivalent.
Existing DrainaSge
3.          The existing street drainage system consist of open channels
called "Jubes" which run along the sides of streets and discharge in main
intercepting canals which divert surface waters to natural drainage ravines.
This system, however, was not designed as a major drainage system as in many
places downstream sections have reduced hydraulic capacity. As a result of
these conditions, during heavy storms which occur five to six times annually,
flooding occurs within the city center and in the low-lying areas to the south
of the city which are inhabited by low income families (Shahr-e-Rey town).
Flooding of these areas has intensified waterlogging problems resulting in
damage to buildings and infrastructure, and the in siu sewage percolation
pits to malfunction causing sewage to overflow onto streets.



- 59 -
Page 2 of 4
Benefited Area
4.          The directly benefited area within the city center is
characterized by an urban environment typical of large metropolis. It is
predominantly commercial and medium to low density residential inhabited
mostly by low income people. There are some government buildings and mosques,
the main railroad station and the vegetable and fruit market, as well as
several historical buildings such as the Gholestan and Marble palaces, the old
bazaar and Hassan Abad square. The area to the south, Shahr-e-Rey, is a
historical town over one thousand years old which is the site of ancient
historical buildings such as the Shrine of Abdul Azim, the Shrine of Imam
Abdulla and picturesque old buildings in the bazaar area.
Environmental and Social Review
5.          Within the route of the proposed works there are no fauna and
flora species and known sites of archaeological importance which would be
negatively affected by the proposed project.
6.          The route of the reoposed Third Outlet main drain which is located
mainly outside city boundaries, follows mostly existing roads rights-of-way
and would only require an easement (about 1 ha.) for temporary access during
construction and for maintenance of a proposed underground pipe. Land
acquisition would be required only for the retention reservoir (about 12 ha).
The project would not require relocation of people nor would land acquisltion
affect negatively the livelihood of those from whom property would be
purchased.
7.          The impact of transferring large volumes of rainwater runoff from
Tehran to the Kan River catchment were also reviewed both in terms of
hydraulic capacity and pollution aspects. The hydraulic analysis showed that
the Kan River could not carry the increased volumes from Tehran due to
existing constraints at bridges downstream the discharge point of the proposed
Third Outlet conveyor. It was, therefore, recommended to provide a retention
reservoir to dampen design peak flows. This reservoir would also remove
settleable materials which normally are carried by flood waters from urban
areas. Since the Third Outlet conveyor has been designed to divert flood
waters in excess of the base flows in existing streams, no negative impact on
agricultural areas south of Tehran would result from the proposed project.
8.          The impact of construction on commercial and residentlal areas was
also reviewed and, to this effect, open trench and tunneling excavation
methods were studied. This analysis concluded that due to heavy pedestrian
and vehicular traffic in downtown Tehran, tunneling excavation would be not
only least costly but would also result in negligible economic losses to
people living and working in the project area.
9.          The routing of the proposed works were also analyzed to reduce any
negative social impacts that could result from relocation of people. For this
reason the proposed works iave been routed withln roads rights-of-way and
under streets to avoid such potential negative impacts. Land acquisition is



- 60 -
ANNEX I11
Page 3 of 4
limited to about 14 ha of land, most of which is barren land designated for
agriculture but not developed due to water shortage.
10.         The disposal of spoils from tunnels and channels was also analyzed
to mitigate any negative environmental impacts which could result from
improper disposal practices. The project provides for using a sizable portion
of this material in the construction of the proposed retention reservoir
embankments; and the surplus material to be used for landscaping sites already
identified by the Tehran Parks Department, which are being reclaimed for green
spaces and parks.
Positive Imnacts
11.         The main positive environmental and social benefits resulting from
the proposed project would be those associated with the reduction of flood
damage in the city center, as well as reduction of flood damage and
waterlogging in the low-lying areas to the south (Shahr-e-Rey) which is mostly
inhabited by low income people. Other environmental benefits would be those
to be derived from the avoidance of disruptions to traffic which during severe
traffic delays greatly increases air pollution. The latter is of importance
because leaded gasoline is used by vehicles which under severe traffic
congestions would become a major health hazard. Also, since the Kan river
flood plain suffers of water shortages for agriculture, the rerouting of
flood waters would bring about social and environmental benefits to that area.
The proposed project would also offer employment opportunities to skilled and
unskilled labor in the area.
Negative ImQacts and Mitigative Measures
12.         The project would not result on major negative environmental and
social impacts. Potential negative impacts would be those which would result
due to construction activities. However, these impacts would be minimized by
the proposed routing of proposed works along existing roads rights-of-way, by
locating such structures underground, by the tunneling methods proposed, by
ensuring a sound design and by appropriate construction supervision.
13.         To prevent negative impacts in the Kan river as a result of the
increased flows from the transfer of flood water to its watershed and the
increase in water pollution, a retention reservoir would be provided to dampen
peak flows and for gradual releases of water to within the river bed hydraulic
capacity, and for the removal of settleable material.
14.         Excavated material not used in the construction of the retention
reservoir (para. 10 above) would be used for landscaping sites s.-lected by the
city Parks Department for land reclamation for parks and green spaces. The
civil works contracts would make provisions for a sound disposal of such                   r
material at these places.
15.         To ensure the preservation of cultural heritage sites which might
be encountered during construction, the proposed routes would be investigated
in advance and excavations inspected by the Cultural Heritage Organization.



- 61 -
A=NEX 11
Page 4 of 4
16.         Land acquisition laws, regulations and procedures were reviewed
and are satisfactory.  The Tehran municipality agreed to compenkte affected
families in kind to avoid causing any hardships to affected families.
Agreement was reached on acquiring land in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 62 -
ANNEX 12
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
Selected Documents In The Project File
A.    General
A.1   City Map
B.    ReDorts by Consult.ants
B.1   Pre-Investment Survey, Surface Water Master Plan, Prepared by Sir
Alexander Gibb and Partners/John Taylor and Sons/Tehran Boston
Engineers, Dated July 1975
B.2   Khayam Main Drain and Third Outlet Project, Summary Report, Prepared by
Omran Mohit Zist Consulting Engineers, Dated January 1992
B.3   Khayam Main Drain and Third Outlet Project, Hydraulic Design, Prepared
by Omran Mohit Consulting Engineers, Dated January 1992
B.4   Tehran Surface Water Project, Economic Survey and Cost Benefit Analysis,
Prepared by Omran Mohit Consulting Engineers, Dated January 1992
B.5   Tehran Surface Water Project, Information for Project Appraisal, Part I,
Prepared by Omran Mohit Consulting Engineers, Dated January 1992
B.6   Design Drawings, Prepared by Omran Mohit Consulting Engineers
C.    Proiect Documentation by Bank Staff
Appraisal Records:
C.A   Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire
C.2   Cost Estimates, Procurement Arrangements and Disbursement Estimates
C.3   Meeting Notes
C.4   Economic Analysis
C.5   Environmental Analysis



T\ARSMENI; AZERBAIAN\          J       55                                                                    60'                                  65'
RBoz+, ^ Ofn  t) q1                  h                                               ~~~~~ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
Eoo"^∞ .>> 1"   C o s p i a n   9                                                                          TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
Astara ASto r o                                                                    i 5eS__   ~\,,*           Project Area
Paved Roads
lkho  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Qohn-                                                                 Highways
Mioode@b  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o mn-i-----s--- t- Railroads
Mcloo aoi?                                 l                                                   Soianbod    Masho               +t       Airports
Soqqe ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7-Rivers
Seasonal Lakes/Flooded
r > r an Kosh.*,  Torbat -Jo          ,'    Areas
TrbotI-eydaynyek0             Cities
Gr e a t  S a  t  D,e s e r                                   G       Province Capitals
V'   Arok                                                                                                  *       National Capital
Ko EslormobodX   7   BorLjerd   _lhon                    t.                                  r         (      M;7K---nInternational Boundaries
\\\  dIian f 1~horro  A                                                                                             /                     MIlES
0     50    100    150   200
'o     100    200       300     400
ihk Shohr-e-Kord                       X                                                                       KILOMETERS
45o1   >  '>   o   eG;Bushehr    >vt                   |            \  obzevoron               XKhosh           '.  t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  tnf~.My ortk anrn,nc o te onnr
Great  Sand   Desert                                      .  ....  tI, F t., o imo.  oF Th. Wrld
TU/4_Trz.tn>9%'''   stPAQ                                                                                                                 dG  I-ST  
<  pf TOf  Word   P, Group a.y rdPs gree Mo
0                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~300
30                                                                       1                                                 w
450,                 oL                                                                                  Sobovun
OPDL N ..'iOF                                                                                                                                            A  K I 5 T A  N
OF IRAIN                                                 B-d -bna
SUI QATAR        PAITN                                                                                                                                           ; -
A,    ARABIA            2.BAHRAIN
OMAN                       IOA. --                                                                              Claotu
5lo,,,   QATAR                          5~50                                      0                                        650   O
N)                                                                                                                              I    N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
)                                          <                                            ? 0 tJ TEHRAN DRAINAGE PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
DRAINAGE
TUNNELS:
PROPOSED
).... JUNDER CONSTRUCTION
EXISTING
OPEN CHANNELS:
CAI MENI                  ~~~~PROPOSED
ToKiorowon        EXISTING
FLOOD ZONE AREAS
mPROPOSED STORAGE RESERVOIR
RZIVERS
-MAIN ROADS
>r:c \  <   i  ,   1z, t                             = INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
(  1  2  3  A   K KItOMETERS
>\                 0 i          \            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AlRPOR   _ 7     CES 
--sa i..r.rn.a ofreaders andssol.rsiroiyfors-edi;rsnal us.  of . T Wold
ok  ro-p  Th. donor sio., sd -nd tha bo-d   shownr on rh;
\ap do no s  pI r on rho pont  of The world fo-l Group. -oy jOU-no.o
f 1'      t.\ t20X   i<N                                                                        K  X,A1Ch,,^Mat.l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nhotr rrr$nrroshr o o n erao
__  \  %                                              7r: MorerrirJ                         0 % '              >    wA r a {, , ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Amo oOa~o-Yn    '-ihniro
Sksrogsé                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TURKEY  rooiorX
JO W1AN
)                                                    I               S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!AUDI  JTA[SI
r    ARABI  Of IRAN
'o DANOMA
?*   ARAWA ~ ~ ~ ARH 99



