      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)



                                                                                                              Report Number : ICRR0020074


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                      Project Name
 P088751                                         ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)

 Country                                         Practice Area(Lead)                              Additional Financing
 Congo, Democratic Republic of                   Health, Nutrition & Population                   P120761,P122251,P125677,P126088



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                    Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-H1820,IDA-H6380,IDA-H7170,IDA-H7500,TF-          30-Jun-2010                                                         355,000,000.00
  17380,TF-95892

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  01-Sep-2005                                          31-Dec-2014

                                                             IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           335,000,000.00                                             10,420,000.00

  Revised Commitment                                            332,945,982.40                                             10,275,737.07

  Actual                                                        332,324,127.09                                             10,711,287.07




 Sector(s)
 Health(90%):Sub-national government administration(7%):Central government administration(3%)

 Theme(s)
 Health system performance(25%):Child health(25%):Malaria(24%):Population and reproductive health(13%):HIV/AIDS(13%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator            Group
 Judith Hahn Gaubatz                Judyth L. Twigg                     Joy Behrens                       IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 7), the project objective was as follows:



       • To ensure that the target population of selected project Health Zones has access to, and uses, a well-defined package of
       quality essential health services.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)




     The Development Grant Agreement (page 20) states the project objective similarly:



          • To ensure that the target population in project Health Zones has access to, and utilizes, the EHS [Essential Health Services
          package].



     The project objective remained the same throughout the project period. The fundamental project design also remained the same, although
     three Additional Financings (AF) were approved to scale up selected activities particularly by adding malaria and polio
     interventions. However, outcome targets were revised under the Third AF only, and therefore, for the purposes of this review, the project is
     considered restructured only at the time of approval of the Third AF (June 2012) and the project outcomes are assessed accordingly.


b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     No



c.   Components
     (Note: Appraised amounts below do not include Trust Fund financing, although actual total amounts do include Trust Fund financing.)

     1. Expand Access and Utilization of a Proven Package of Essential Health Services to Selected Districts and Health Zones (Appraisal:
     US$ 104.0 million; AFI: US$ 0; AFII: US$ 27.0 million; AFIII: US$ 62.5 million; Actual (total): US$ 214.5 million): This component was to
     support the provision of basic health care services in areas where there was limited or no existing service delivery. Implementing Partners
     (IPs) - primarily international NGOs - were to be contracted to train, equip and monitor front-line health staff in 83 targeted Health Zones
     (geographically-defined service areas). Specific services were to be determined by the IP depending on the needs of each Health Zone,
     although the services would be drawn from the following options: child preventive health interventions (vaccinations, vitamin A
     supplementation, and insecticide-treated bednets); reproductive and neonatal health services (family planning services including modern
     contraceptives, neonatal care including skilled birth attendance and access to emergency obstetric care); and integrated management of
     childhood illnesses (including adoption of protocols for treatment of acute respiratory infections, diarrhea, fever/malaria, measles and
     malnutrition). This component was also to support training of community health workers, strengthening of referral systems, development
     of payment exemption programs for the poorest, and reforms to the government funding system in order to increase remuneration for
     health staff.

     2. Boost Malaria Control Intervention (Appraisal: US$ 30.0 million; AFI: US$ 73.2 million; AF2: US$ 0; AF3: US$ 0; Actual (total): US$
     101.5 million): This component was to support key malaria control interventions in the 83 project Health Zones, in coordination with other
     global programs such as Roll Back Malaria. Activities were to include: intermittent preventive treatment (IPT) for pregnant women (two
     doses of treatment during routine antenatal visits); combination therapy for first-line treatment; procurement and distribution of insecticide-
     treated bednets (2-3 bednets per household); and community education.

     3. Strengthen Capacity for Oversight and Evidence-based Management of the Health System (Appraisal: US$ 12.0 million; AF1: US$ 4.8
     million; AF2: US$ 2.5 million; AF3: US$ 11.0 million; Actual (total): US$ 4.2 million): This component was to support capacity building for
     provincial and district level health authorities, and contracting of an independent External Evaluation Agency (EEA) to monitor
     performance of IPs (including the provision of financial bonuses for performance). Activities also were to include: a baseline
     study; periodic household and facility surveys; technical assistance to the central government on health budgeting, human resources, and
     drug procurement; and operations research .

     4. Project Coordination (Appraisal: US$ 4.0 million; AF1: US$ 2.0 million; AF2: US$ 0.5 million; AF3: US$ 1.5 million; Actual (total): US$
     26.0 million): This component was to support operations of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Ministry of Public Health. The
     PCU was responsible for coordinating activities among the various implementing entities, monitoring project progress, contracting out
     fiduciary responsibilities, and organizing annual Health Forums to share M&E results and lessons among government ministries and IPs.
     Additional Financing 1 (December 2010): US$ 80.0 million
     This AF was approved in response to the government's request to scale up malaria control activities under Component 2, including:
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)




       • Provision of an additional 8.4 million long-lasting insecticide treated bednets.
       • Continued provision of malaria prevention to pregnant women and children under one year old.
       • Support to health care providers on diagnosis and treatment.



    The project objectives and design remained the same; however, wording of malaria-specific indicators was clarified.

    Additional Financing 2 (June 2011): US$ 30.0 million
    This AF was approved in response to the outbreak of a severe polio epidemic in mid-2010 that was threatening to affect both adults and
    children. The project provided support to the government's National Immunization Program, including:

       •   Distribution of oral polio vaccines (procurement of vaccines itself to be financed by UNICEF).
       •   Training for health staff and disease surveillance.
       •   Provision of cold chain equipment.
       •   Social mobilization.



    The project objectives and design remained the same; however, polio-specific indicators were added to account for the intensified
    activities, which were expanded nationwide.

    Additional Financing 3 (June 2012): US$ 75.0 million
    This AF was approved to continue support to the delivery of primary health care services until June 2013, consistent with the end-date of
    the malaria and polio interventions being supported by AF1 and AF2. Support was continued to the previously defined package of
    essential services, with an increased emphasis on:

       • Family planning.
       • Clinic-based nutrition activities such as growth monitoring and micronutrient supplementation.
       • Anti-retroviral medicines for treatment of HIV/AIDS.



    The project objectives and design remained the same; however, targets for several key outcome indicators were revised, including
    proportion of skilled birth attendance, consultation rates, use of family planning, and use of bednets.



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project cost

       • The original appraised project cost was US$ 150.0 million. Due to three Additional Financings totaling US$ 185.0 million and three
       Trust Fund grants totaling US$ 13.3 million, the total appraised project cost was US$ 348.3 million.
       • Approximately US$ 2.0 million was cancelled from the original grant and three AF grants. The actual project cost was US$ 332.3
       million.
       • Component 3 (Strengthening Capacity for Evidence-Based Management) disbursed only US$ 4.2 million out of an appraised US$
       30.3 million. The ICR does not provide an explanation for the significant shortfall in expenditures.
       • Component 4 (Project Coordination) disbursed US$ 26.0 million, compared to the appraised US$ 8.0 million. The overspending
       was due to the significantly longer than planned project implementation period.



    Financing

       • The original project was financed by an IDA grant of US$ 150.0 million. Three Additional Financing grants were approved in the
       amounts of US$ 80.0 million (Dec 2010), US$ 30.0 million (May 2011), and US$ 75.0 million (June 2012).
       • The project was also supported by three Trust Fund grants: two from the Health Results Innovation Trust Fund (US$ 0.75 million
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)



       and US$ 10.0 million) and one from the Canadian Trust Fund (US$ 3.5 million). These were used to support technical assistance and
       pilot activities (i.e. performance-based financing).



    Borrower contribution

       • There was no planned Borrower contribution.



    Dates

       • April 2010: Fiduciary responsibilities were shifted from the state agency (Central Coordination Bureau of the Ministry of Finance,
       BCECO) to the PCU in order to resolve implementation bottlenecks. The closing date was extended from June 2010 to December
       2011, in order to account for start-up delays.
       • December 2010: The first Additional Financing provided support for scaling up the national malaria control program.
       Specifically, bednets were procured for three additional provinces (Katanga, South Kivu, North Kivu) while other donors procured
       bednets for the remaining provinces. The project closing date was extended from December 2011 to June 2013 to accommodate the
       scaled up activities.
       • June 2011: The second Additional Financing provided support for polio eradication activities nationwide. The project closing
       date remained June 2013.
       • June 2012: The third Additional Financing was approved to continue support to the delivery of primary health care services, during
       the same period as the malaria and polio interventions being supported by AF1 and AF2. The closing date was extended to June
       2014 to accommodate the extension of activities.
       • Date not specified: The closing date was extended from June 2014 to December 2014 to allow for completion of activities,
       particularly the performance-based financing pilot.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The child and maternal mortality rates in the country, at the time of appraisal and at completion, remain among the highest in the world (146
   per 1,000 live births (2012, source: UNICEF) and 550 per 100,000 live births (2008-2012, source: UNICEF), respectively). The total fertility
   rate is also high at 6.0 (2012, source: UNICEF) while modern contraceptive use is 4% (according to PAD, page 2), among the lowest in the
   world. Following years of conflict and weak public sector management, the health system remains minimally functional. An estimated 70% of
   the population has little or no access to health care.

   The main principles underlying the project objectives - provision of basic prevention-oriented health care at the decentralized level,
   and targeting of women, children, and the poor - are reflected in the government's National Plan for Health Development (2010). The
   objectives are also highly consistent with the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (FY2004-06) at the time of approval, which includes support
   to social development, including in the health sector, as a strategic element, and the Bank's current Country Partnership Strategy (FY2013-
   16), which identifies improved access to health services as a key outcome. The project objectives are also highly relevant to the Bank's
   corporate priorities as reflected in the Millennium Development Goals (in place until 2015).

   The project objectives remained highly relevant under the Additional Financings. Malaria is the single most important cause of morbidity, with
   97% of the population at risk of endemic malaria and children under 5 years old suffering 6-10 fever-related episodes of malaria per year.
   Nationwide polio eradication efforts were also highly relevant given the need to contain an outbreak of polio in 2010-2011.




   Rating                                                                             Revised Rating
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)



       High                                                                                  High


   b. Relevance of Design

       The project design focused on the provision of services that directly addressed the key causes of morbidity and mortality in the country. These
       include malaria, low vaccination coverage, malnutrition, and poor maternal health. Given the low capacity of the public sector, IPs from the
       private/NGO sector were to be contracted to oversee service delivery in geographically defined areas. Specific services offered in each Health
       Zone were to be determined by the overseeing IP based on population needs. Addressing quality of services and barriers to utilization, namely
       affordability by the poor, were also critical aspects, and the project design included interventions such as training for front-line health staff and
       reforms to the payment system.

       The project design remained relevant under scaled up Additional Financing activities, which reflected international best practice in responding to
       malaria and polio outbreaks.

       However, the feasibility of fully achieving targets, both original and revised, was less likely due to the highly challenging environment in the
       selected Health Zones (i.e. volatility in the security situation, difficulty in physical access). The project design did not adequately take into
       account these contextual exogenous factors.




       Rating                                                                                Revised Rating
       Substantial                                                                           Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To ensure that the target population in Project Health Zones has access to a well-defined package of quality essential health services
     (ACCESS)

    Rationale
    The original project included 83 Health Zones (out of 515) in five provinces, covering approximately 9.4 million people. The geographic
    scope of the project was increased as follows, due to the Additional Financing activities: (i) the number of Health Zones covered by the
    project's malaria interventions increased to approximately 153, which totaled 18.9 million people; and (ii) polio vaccination activities were
    expanded nationwide. Other maternal/child health interventions remained focused on the original 83 Health Zones.

    The ICR (page 21) notes that the selected Health Zones were among those that had the lowest health outcome indicators in the
    country. Due to the project, health services are now being provided in areas where there were no prior services or where the government
    had no plans to establish them.

    Outputs
    The following outputs are relevant to all outcomes (under all objectives) reported below:

    Facilities and equipment

        • Construction/ rehabilitation of 818 health facilities (original target: 400; revised target: 850).
        • Provision of a defined essential package of health services, which included immunizations, micronutrient supplementation, malaria
        control, family planning, neonatal care, and management of childhood illnesses.
        • Provision of drugs, including malaria prevention and treatment drugs, oral polio vaccinations, iron/folate tablets, vitamin A supplements,
        and oral rehydration salts. Note: According to the original project design (PAD, page 8), the Global Alliance for Vaccines and
        Immunization (GAVI) was to finance purchase of routine childhood vaccines. This project aimed to support the delivery system for
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)



   vaccinations (i.e. cold chain equipment), which resulted in 98% of project Health Zones being provided with adequate vaccine storage
   and cold chain equipment.
   • Provision of equipment and supplies, including malaria diagnostic and treatment equipment, contraceptives, HIV/AIDS rapid tests, and
   vehicles.
   • Provision of 11.8 million long-lasting insecticide-treated bednets (original target: 2.9 million; revised target: 11.8 million).



Personnel

   • Provision of training to 13,640 health personnel, including in Integrated Management of Childhood Illness protocols and malaria
   treatment (original target: 2,500; revised target: 13,000).
   • Provision of management training to Ministry of Public Health officials at provincial and district levels.
   • Establishment of performance-based partnership contracts among the Ministry of Health, IPs, and local service providers.



Other

   • Reform of payment system, including introduction of incentive bonuses to health workers.
   • Operations research support, including in health financing.
   • Creation of payment exemption program for the poorest.



Outcomes



   • 24.7 million people benefitted from project services (primary health, malaria, and/or polio activities), of which 54% were women.



Child health:

   • The proportion of children in project areas, aged 0-11 months, who received the diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus (DPT3) vaccination
   increased from 54% in 2007 to 90% in 2014. (Target: 90%).
   • The proportion of children in project areas, aged 6-59 months, who received Vitamin A supplementation increased from 53% in 2007
   to 97% in 2014. (Target: 94%).



Maternal health:

   • The percentage of birth deliveries in project areas that were assisted by skilled attendants increased from 47% in 2007 to 75% in 2014.
   (Target: 65%). This figure also indicates improved quality of services.
   • The percentage of pregnant women enrolled in antenatal care increased from 63% in 2007 to 87% in 2014. (Target: 75%).



Malaria:

   • The percentage of households in project areas (83 original Health Zones and 70 additional Health Zones) that possessed at least one
   bednet increased from 50.2% in 2010 to 70.0% in 2014. (Target: 57%).



Polio:
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)



        • The proportion of children nationwide, aged 12-23 months, who received the oral polio vaccine (OPV) increased from 74% in 2011 to
        89% in 2014. (Target: 90%)
        • The percentage of provincial and health zones without stock shortages of OPV was 99%. This achieved the original target of 98% and
        the revised target of 95%. This figure also indicates improved quality of services.



    Achievement of the objective under original targets (including the added malaria and polio activities, which remained consistent with
    the objectives and approach of the original project) is rated Substantial due to significant improvements in maternal/child health, malaria,
    and polio outcomes.


    Rating
    Substantial




    Revised Objective
    Objective stayed the same, but the target for one key outcome indicator was revised.

    Revised Rationale
    Maternal health:

        • The percentage of birth deliveries in project areas that were assisted by skilled attendants increased from 47% in 2007 to 75% in 2014.
        (Target: 85%).



    Achievement under revised targets is rated Substantial due to improvements in malaria, polio and child/maternal
    health, although achievement of the one revised indicator fell short of the revised target.




    Revised Rating
    Substantial

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     To ensure that the target population in Project Health Zones uses a well-defined package of quality essential health services (UTILIZATION)

    Rationale
    Outputs
    See outputs listed above under Objective 1.

    Outcomes

    Overall

        • The per capita annual curative consultation rate in project areas was 0.39 in 2011, and then fell to 0.37 in 2014. (Target: 0.40). The
        baseline provided is 0.19 in 2007 (see note above).
        • The PAD refers to project activities intended to improve health-seeking behavior of households and to introduce payment exemption
        programs for the poor; however, no information on implementation (or outcomes) of these activities is reported in the ICR.
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)



Maternal health

   • The proportion of women in project areas, aged 15-49 years, who are new users of family planning increased from 2% in 2007 to 6% in
   2011, but then decreased again to 2% in 2014. (Target: 6%).



Malaria

   • The percentage of children in project areas, under 5 years, who had slept under an insecticide-treated net the previous night increased
   from 38% in 2010 to 66% in 2013. (Target: 70%).
   • The percentage of pregnant women in project areas who had slept under an insecticide-treated net in the previous night increased from
   43% in 2010 to 63% in 2013. (Target: 70%).
   • The proportion of pregnant women who received two doses of IPT during their last pregnancy increased from 26% in 2007 to 47% in
   2014. (Target: 70%).
   • The percentage of children in project areas, under 5 years, who present with fever, are confirmed as cases of malaria, and treated with
   ACTs increased from 0% in 2007 to 53.3% in 2014. (Target: 60.0%).



Polio

   • The number of new polio cases reported dropped to zero by 2012 (the end of the implementation period for polio interventions) and
   remained at zero at the time of project closing. The baseline number of cases reported in 2011 was 98. This outcome achieved the
   original target of <30 cases.



Achievement under the original targets is rated Substantial. Indicators reflect increases in consultation rates and utilization rates for
maternal health and malaria services, although falling slightly short of the targets for some. Utilization rates for polio also increased and met
the targets.


Rating
Substantial




Revised Objective
Objective remained the same, but targets for several key outcome indicators were revised.

Revised Rationale
Overall

   • The per capita annual curative consultation rate in project areas was 0.39 in 2011 but decreased to 0.37 in 2014. (Revised target:
   0.45).



Maternal health

   • The proportion of women in project areas, aged 15-49 years, who are new users of family planning, was 6.0% in 2011, but then
   decreased to 2.0% in 2014. (Revised target: 11.0%).



Malaria
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)




    • The percentage of children in project areas, under 5 years, who had slept under an insecticide-treated net in the previous night
    increased from 38.0% in 2010 to 66.0% in 2013. (Revised target: 50.0%).
    • The percentage of pregnant women in project areas who had slept under an insecticide-treated net in the previous night increased from
    43.0% in 2010 to 63.0% in 2013. (Revised target: 60.0%).
    • The proportion of pregnant women who received two doses of IPT during their last pregnancy increased from 26.0% in 2007 to 47.0%
    in 2014. (Revised target: 45.0%).



 Achievement under revised targets is rated Modest due to significant shortcomings in meeting targets for consultation rates and utilization of
 maternal health services.


 Revised Rating
 Modest




5. Efficiency

The project design incorporated several elements that were likely to contribute to efficient use of project resources. These included the use of
interventions that are generally acknowledged to be highly cost-effective (immunizations, distributions of bednets, Vitamin A supplementation)
and contracting out service delivery to implementing entities that had proven experience (including the bednet distribution and polio vaccination
efforts by UNICEF). Given the above, and the significantly achieved outcomes for malaria and polio, it is likely that efficiency for the AF2 (US$
80.0 million) and AF3 (US$ 30.0 million) activities, which comprised almost one-third of project costs, was substantial.

A cost-benefit analysis for the completed project is conducted in the ICR (Annex 3). Costs are estimated using the actual project costs (but not
including any additional costs incurred by the public sector or implementing entities, which were likely low). Benefits are estimated using only a
sub-set of project interventions and their relevant outcomes (those that could be translated into calculable health benefits): skilled birth
attendance, use of bednets by pregnant women and children under 5, and DPT3 vaccinations. The resulting analysis suggests that each $1
invested in the project led to $3 in benefits. However, given the lack of clearly established achievements (due to inaccurate baseline data) for
skilled birth attendance and DPT3 vaccinations, the validity of the findings is unclear.

In addition, there were significant delays and disruptions in project implementation that had a significantly negative impact on efficiency. As
reported in the ICR (page 9), there were long procurement delays that affected the start-up of key project activities (including finalizing contracts
for selected IPs and the external evaluation agency), long payment delays for purchase of approved inputs, turnover in staff, costly
transportation challenges, a cumbersome approach to managing IP contracts, and delays in implementation of baseline surveys. There were
also persistent weaknesses in capacity at the central and local levels. These weaknesses were not rectified until the revision of project
implementation arrangements in April 2010. However, the gap in funding for the essential package of health services (aside from malaria and
polio activities implemented by UNICEF) led to serious drops in utilization of health services, which also significantly impacted final outcomes of
the project.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?              Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                              0
 Appraisal                                                                  0
                                                                                                              Not Applicable
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)



                                                                                                                 0
 ICR Estimate                                                                0
                                                                                                                 Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Project under the original targets - Moderately Satisfactory
Relevance of the project objective is rated High and relevance of the project design is rated Substantial. Achievement of the objective to
increase access to essential health services (including the added malaria and polio activities, which remained consistent with the objectives and
approach of the original project) is rated Substantial due to significant improvements in maternal/child health, malaria, and polio outcomes.
Achievement of the objective to increase utilization of essential health services is rated Substantial, as indicators reflect increases in consultation
rates and utilization rates for maternal health and malaria services, although falling slightly short of the targets for some. Utilization rates for polio
also increased and met the targets.

Project under the revised targets - Moderately Unsatisfactory
Relevance of the project objective is rated High and relevance of the project design is rated Substantial. Achievement of the objective to
increase access (under revised targets) is rated Substantial due to improvements in malaria, polio and child/maternal health. Achievement of
the objective to increase utilization (under revised targets) is rated Modest due to significant shortcomings in meeting targets for consultation
rates and utilization of maternal health services.

Efficiency is rated Modest over the project period, due to significant implementation delays and disruptions.

According to harmonized OPCS/IEG guidelines, the combined outcome rating for a restructured project is determined by weighting the proportion
of the grant(s) disbursed before and after the restructuring. At the time of the revision of key outcome targets (June 2012), the grant had
disbursed US$ 223.9 million, or 67.4%. Therefore, the combined weighted rating is Moderately Satisfactory.




a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Public expenditures and external financing are likely to be sustained at existing levels, such that funding for primary health care services is likely
to remain available. This includes a follow up Bank operation in health (Health Systems Strengthening for Better Maternal and Child
Health Outcomes, US$ 220.0 million) that was approved in December 2014, in a direct effort to sustain delivery of basic health services.
However, access to geographically difficult-to-reach Health Zones remains a significant risk, and therefore the continued delivery of primary
health care (especially in maternal and child health) is unclear.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project built on experience with the health component of the prior Emergency Multisector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (in
     which the Health Zone model with public-private partnerships was being implemented with initial positive results), as well as an extensive
     sector analysis ("Country Status Report on Health"). However, project preparation did not include an adequate assessment of the reality on
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)



   the ground, such as difficult geographic access and limited means of transportation to a number of the targeted Health Zones. The project
   design also did not adequately consider capacity constraints (BCECO) and coordination challenges among the multiple implementing
   entities (IPs, Ministry of Health). The risk assessment underestimated some critical areas of risk, including the impact of socio-political
   conflict and weak fiduciary management, which were assessed as Significant where High would have been more accurate. Mitigation
   measures for these two risks in particular were inadequate. The M&E framework was overall adequate, although a significant shortcoming
   was the lack of identified baseline (and target) data, which were to be collected by an external evaluation agency after the project became
   effective.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   Overall, the Bank team provided frequent and intensive supervision, including through field-based task team leadership for half the project
   period. The strong focus on malaria and polio through two Additional Financing grants led to significant achievements in addressing those
   two diseases. During the initial project period, when large procurements were needed to start up key activities, the ICR (page 28) reports
   that "the Bank's decisions and support on procurement in particular were slow and insufficient," for example delaying its provision of non-
   objections for contracting the IPs due to overhead costs that were considered very high. Procurement remained a significant challenge
   throughout the project period despite Bank supervision support. Following another lengthy period to finalize the project's Level
   2 restructuring (which proposed changes to implementation arrangements that were causing bottlenecks), the pace of implementation and
   disbursement improved significantly. The M&E framework underwent numerous revisions in an effort to clarify indicators with more
   precision and measurability. The ICR (page 29) reports on inadequate documentation on safeguards (including following up on Bank
   supervision team recommendations).



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The project was implemented amidst a challenging socio-political climate, which featured the first national elections in forty years. The
   ensuing events - contested results, post-election violence, and new round of elections - created challenges during the project period,
   including lengthy delays in government ratification of the project (despite the conditions of effectiveness being met shortly after project
   approval by the Bank's Board) and insecurity in several parts of the country where targeted Health Zones were located. However, the
   Ministry of Public Health demonstrated strong commitment to the project and the policies/implementation models that it reflected, such as
   the decentralized Health Zone model and performance-based contracting with IPs.




   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Ministry of Public Health had primary implementing responsibilities. The central
   government's fiduciary agent (BCECO) in the Ministry of Finance was originally assigned with fiduciary functions, given weak
   governance at the decentralized levels; however, BCECO was subsequently "overwhelmed" with managing procurement of the
   three activities that comprised the bulk of the project (contracts with IPs, the external evaluation agency (EEA), and the National Malaria
   Program (PNLP)). This led to significant delays and difficulties in procurement. Following the April 2010 restructuring, fiduciary
   responsibilities were moved to the PCU, and the pace of disbursements and implementation improved significantly. Financial
   management performance and M&E performance by the PCU were overall satisfactory. Performance of BCECO is considered
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)



   unsatisfactory, while performance of the PCU is considered mostly satisfactory. The ICR (page 30) cites the strong leadership and
   capacity of the PCU, as reflected in the quality of annual health forums, project documentation, and management of IPs, although there
   was limited collaboration with the broader Ministry and thus limited ownership by relevant stakeholders there. UNICEF was contracted to
   implement the malaria and polio activities, and was highly effective.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   Given the limited M&E capacity of the Ministry of Public Health, an external evaluation agency (EEA) was to be contracted to monitor
   performance of IPs and project outcomes. Project indicators were to measure several aspects of project achievements, including
   increased geographic access, reduced financial barriers, and enhanced quality of care. In addition to the regular project monitoring
   system (through the existing National Health Information System), the M&E design included a baseline assessment (no baseline data or
   targets were established prior to project effectiveness) and "light" household surveys.




b. M&E Implementation
   Due to the Additional Financing grants and the scaled-up scope of activities, significant revisions were made to the indicators during the
   project period. These revisions included clarification in the wording of the indicators and adjustments to targets (both intermediate and PDO-
   level indicators). However, reporting on the indicators (i.e. baselines) was not always consistent with the commencement of scaled up
   activities.

   Also, due to long delays in contracting the EEA, baseline data became available only at the Mid-Term Review (2009). According to the ICR
   (page 14), the quality of the data was "questionable" and led to disagreements between the EEA and IPs on actual
   achievements. Key evaluations - UNICEF impact evaluation, household survey, and final evaluation of malaria activities - were delayed such
   that results of project activities were not known for a long period after the activities had ended. Responsibility for project data collection was
   increasingly shifted from the EEA to the IPs, which "improved the timeliness and quality of data reporting" (ICR, page 14), as confirmed by
   supervision efforts and consistent with findings from the 2014 Demographic and Health Survey.




c. M&E Utilization
   Annual health forums were organized to discuss project progress. At these meetings, project data were used to inform decisions, including
   the decision to seek Additional Financing to rapidly scale up malaria control activities. The IPs were to be paid bonuses according to their
   performance (as monitored by project M&E); however, there is no information in the ICR on whether this was carried out.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)



   The project (and Additional Financings) was classified as Category "B" due to medical waste issues. A Medical Waste Management
   National Plan was prepared through the Bank's ongoing HIV/AIDS project to address safe handling and disposal of medical waste. In May
   2011, a comprehensive environmental audit was conducted, which concluded that the environmental impact of the project's construction
   activities was "minor" (ICR, page 15). According to the ICR (page 15), no problems were reported during the project period with
   environmental safeguard compliance, and performance was consistently rated satisfactory. However, the ICR (page 29) reports that
   "safeguards missions were less well documented, in particular with regards to follow up on recommendations."

   The first Additional Financing also triggered the safeguard policy on Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10), due to the existence of an indigenous
   population (Batwa people) in some of the project Health Zones. An Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework was prepared in 2011, and a
   subsequent audit determined that project activities had a positive impact on this group (ICR, page 15), including an increase in access to
   health services.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Procurement: Procurement performance was overall unsatisfactory. The original project design designated BCECO as the fiduciary agent;
   however, it became clear during the project period that BCECO had responsibility for too many other projects and therefore could not devote
   sufficient time to its responsibilities. The ICR (page 30) notes that weak capacity often led to "urgent requests requiring rapid rather than
   comprehensive reviews of procurement packages, thereby reducing quality and increasing the risks of even more delays." Procurement
   delays were extensive, leading to major delays and disruptions in implementation. The transfer of procurement functions from BCECO to the
   PCU did not lead to improvements, as the same staff person was hired by the PCU to manage procurement.

   Financial management: Following the closing of the original grant period and the first two AFs, an in-depth financial management review was
   conducted. An initial amount of more than US$ 575,000 in ineligible expenditures was identified; however, this figure was later revised to
   US$ 150,000 and was paid back by the government. The ICR (page 15) reports that financial management was rated moderately
   satisfactory during almost the entire project period, except during the last Bank supervision mission in which a US$ 6.0 million financing gap
   was identified that resulted from overcommitment in the procurement of drugs and underestimation of the cost of distributing the drugs. The
   ICR reports that this financing gap will be covered by the follow up Bank operation.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.




d. Other
    ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                 ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                 Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Risk to Development Outcome             Substantial                        Substantial                         ---
Bank Performance                        Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Borrower Performance                    Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Quality of ICR                                                             Substantial                         ---
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         ZR-Health Sec Rehab Supt (FY06)(P088751)



Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

Lessons drawn from the ICR (pages 30-32), adapted by IEG:

     • The goal of targeting hard-to-reach communities with the poorest health indicators is laudable but must be adequately supported by a
     realistic, on-the-ground assessment of capacity to deliver services. In the case of this project, the "unexpectedly challenging environment" of
     targeted Health Zones led to significant implementation challenges.
     • Additional Financing grants (AFs) can respond to the need for expediency but can also shift focus away from achieving the stated project
     objectives. In the case of this project, the first two AFs provided timely financing for urgent public health crises, implemented by a highly
     experienced external agency. However, the shift in project focus (without a commensurate shift in project objectives) diverted attention and
     resources from the "core" activities of the project and also complicated assessment of indicators.




14. Assessment Recommended?

Yes


Please explain

To verify outcomes of this project.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR makes a valiant attempt to apply the standardized ICR guidelines in rating this project, despite the complicated nature of the project
design and results framework (namely the numerous changes in geographic scope, substantive areas of focus, key indicators, and
targets). On balance, the quality of the data was sufficient to understand some of the project's impact. However, there are some
shortcomings in the internal consistency of the ICR, as the numerous changes are confusing and required extensive cross-checking with
project documents and the project team. Lessons are well drawn from the challenging project experience.

(Note: The long and complicated implementation experience of this project required lengthy explanations, which meant that the ICR, due to
page limitations, unfortunately could not fully expound on other interesting aspects such as the performance-based financing and gender-
based violence activities.)




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
