 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14822

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 09/29/2015

               Country: Vietnam
             Project ID: P079344                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Vietnam - Ict                 Project Costs (US$M):                 106.96                   77.08
                         Development
  L/C Number:            C4116                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                    93.86                  74.12
      Sector Board:                                   Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                                09/15/2005
                                                                 Closing Date:           06/30/2011           12/31/2013
           Sector(s):      Central government administration (43%); Sub-national government administration (35%);
                           General industry and trade sector (22%)
          Theme(s):        Infrastructure services for private sector development (25% - P); Administrative and civil
                           service reform (25% - P); Micro; Small and Medium Enterprise support (24% - P); Regulation
                           and competition policy (13% - S); Other accountability/anti-corruption (13% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                Midori Makino           Christopher David         IEGPS1
Krishnamani                                        Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

Original Objectives :

The project development objectives as stated in the Development Credit Agreement (Schedule 2, page 16) and in the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 4) were: " To assist the Borrower: (a)To accelerate the use of Information
and Communication Technology (ICT) and support institutional development in order to increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of public administration, increase transparency and availability of information and improve public
services delivery to stakeholders.
(b) To foster private sector development, in particular by facilitating increased adoption of ICT by Small and Medium
Enterprises (SMEs).

Revised Objective:

The project was restructured on 01/28/2010, and the revised project development objectives as stated in the
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement (Annex 2, page 1) were: "To assist the Borrower:
(a) To support the Ministry of Information and Communication (MIC)'s institutional development and technical and
regulatory capacity for ICT sector oversight and to increase the efficiency and transparency of public service delivery
in the MIC, General Statistics Office (GSO), Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA), Hanoi and Danang cities.
(b) To foster private sector development by increasing access to business related government services and raising
awareness and usage of ICT in Hanoi and Danang.

This review is based on the objectives as stated in the legal agreements.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
 Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 01/28/2010

c. Components:

Component One: ICT Leadership and Modernization of the Ministry of Post and Telematics (MPT): appraisal
estimate US$21.73 million, actual cost US$23.17 million. This component aimed at strengthening MPT's capacity for
developing and implementing the national ICT strategy and ICT policies. Activities included, (i) developing e
government capability in MPT. (ii) developing and activating informational, interaction and transactional policies. (iii)
establishing a training program, and developing, designing and implementing a curricula for Chief Information
Officers (CIOs).(iv) capacity building for developing ICT policies and regulatory development. (v) developing a legal,
regulatory and institutional framework for IT and telecommunications. (vi) developing a national IT architecture and
inter-operability framework for enabling public administrations to collaborate.

Component Two: Modernization of the General Statistical Office (GSO): appraisal estimate US$13.77 million: actual
cost US$19.59 million. This component planned at supporting the implementation of a strategic plan for modernizing
and capacity building of GSO. Activities included, (i) upgrading their ICT infrastructure. (ii) enhancing their data flow
and their capacity for statistical analysis. (iii) developing and expanding their Intranet and portal (defined as a specially
designed website which brings information from diverse sources in a uniform way).

Component Three, E-Government application in the municipalities of Hanoi , Danang and Ho Chi Minh City ;
combined total appraisal estimate for the three cities US$59.14 million, combined cost at closure for the three cities
US$32.93 million. This component planned at improving the ICT environment in the three cities by laying the
foundation for deploying e government in district offices and departments. Activities included: (i) developing their ICT
strategy, policies and architecture and upgrading their ICT infrastructure.(ii) assessing the business processes in the
cities and developing and implementing workflow solutions. (iii) developing and expanding their electronic gateways
and portals (iv) implementing e applications for selected public services (such as geographic information systems
(GIS), e procurement systems and IT systems for business and land registration, population management and other
government services).(v) supporting the usage of ICT by SMEs. (vi) developing ICT human resources and raising
awareness of ICT in the cities.

Component Four: Project Coordination Support : appraisal estimate US$1.50 US million, actual cost at closure
US$1.39 million. Activities aimed at providing overall project coordination support (including for project monitoring,
reporting and knowledge sharing).


Revised Components:

The following changes were made to the scope of project activities through a Board approved Level One
Restructuring on 0//28/2010, following the recommendations of the Mid Term Review on 3/16/2009.
  The PDO and Outcome indicators were revised to focus on activities funded by the International Development
    Association (IDA).
  Additional core monitoring indicators were incorporated (such as measuring the processing time for public
    services and user perceptions of e services).
  Some sub-project activities were added to component one and component two activities. Added activities to
    component one included, installation of a test center for IT product evaluation, consultancies to prepare plans for
    e document interchange and integrated e mail systems, and installation of an intelligent building system and
    integrated communications for the MIC and installation of a data center and establishing online visa services for
    the MoFA. Added activities to component two included, installation of a data warehouse and information
    dissemination portal, installation of a equipment for data collection/processing for the 2009 population census,
    and installation of a Global Information System (GIS).
  There was a reallocation of funding between project components. Component three (E government applications)
    was to be implemented in only in two cities ( Hanoi and Danang) as compared to the originally scheduled three.
    The ICR (page 3) notes that Ho Chi Minh city was unable to utilize the IDA resources as it had funding from own
    sources for conducting similar project activities. In contrast, there was increase in demand for funds from GSO
    and Danang to finance their ICT development plans. Hence, IDA funds from the Ho Chi Minh city component was
    diverted to GSO and Danang. Some additional activities were added to the Danang project component (such as a
    Transaction center to the data centers and upgrading Danang's ICT infrastructure program in 30 departments,
    seven districts and 56 communes and wards.
  The indicators in the results framework were revised to make them more specific and attributable to the project.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
Project Cost; estimated cost US$106. 96 million, actual cost US$77.08 million. The actual cost was lower than the
appraisal estimates, due to a combination of factors including, reduced scope of the project activities and reduction in
prices of procurement packages in the final years of the project (ICR, page 14).

Financing: IDA appraisal estimate US$ 93.86: Amount disbursed at closure US$ 74.12 million. At closure, US$6.23
million was undisbursed and US$13.52 million was cancelled. The ICR (page 5) notes that the cancellation was due
to a combination of factors including large procurement packages which was either financed by the government with
its own funds, or were not completed at project closure.

Borrower Contribution : appraisal estimate US$13.24 million: actual contribution at closure was less than planned at
US$2.96 million. The ICR does not provide reasons for the shortfall in Borrower contribution at project closure.

Dates: The project was restructured three times.

    On January 28, 2010 a level one restructuring took place. This led to changes in the scope of the project (as
     discussed in section 2c).
    On June 29, 2011 a level two restructuring took place. It extended the project closing date by two years from
     June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2013 for completing the ongoing activities.
    On June 20, 2013, another level two restructuring was approved by the Bank management on an exceptional
     basis. This restructuring adjusted the results framework, reallocated $10.6 million project funds, and cancelled
     $10.3 million of IDA credit. It also extended the project closing date by six months from June 30, 2013 to
     December 31, 2013 for completing some activities (such as testing the ICT solutions and systems and training
     the staff for operating the new systems).

The project closed 30 months beyond schedule on 12/31/2013.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

Relevance of Original and Revised PDO : Substantial.

The original and revised project development objectives were substantially relevant to the government strategy at the
appraisal stage. Vietnam's 's Socioeconomic Development Plan for the 2006-2010 period identified the development
of the IT sector as a top priority for Vietnam. The other national policy documents which highlighted the need for ICT
development included, the e government Development Master Plan to 2010, the State Administration Modernization
and Computerization Program, and the Prime Minister's Decision 169 on simplification of administrative procedures.
The project development objectives were relevant to the key targets identified by the Master Plan such as extensive
diffusion of ICT throughout the national economy, establishing a national information and communications network
and comprehensive ICT skills development. At the appraisal stage, the Government was committed to international
trade agreements (such as the Vietnam/US bilateral trade agreement) which were aimed at opening the
telecommunication sectors to foreign investment for increasing competition in the ICT sector.

The project development objectives continues to remain relevant to the current Government Strategy. The
Government's Socio-Economic Development Strategy (SEDS) for the 2011-2020 period identifies the need for
promoting human resources skill development and improving market institutions.

The project development objectives are also relevant to the Bank strategy for Vietnam. At the appraisal stage, the
project supported two key pillars of the Bank's country strategy for the FY 2003-2006 period: (i) high growth through
transition to a market economy. and (ii) adoption of a modern public administration, legal and governance system.
The Country Partnership Strategy for the Fiscal years 2012-2016 period identified the need for strengthening
Vietnam's competitiveness in the regional and global economy, which are in line with project objectives.

b. Relevance of Design:
Relevance of Original Design : Modest

There is a reasonable casual link between the project activities planned under each component and the outputs they
were intended to produce. For instance, component one activities could be expected to strengthen the MPT's capacity
for developing and implementing the ICT strategy and policies. Component two activities could be expected to
contribute to the modernization of the GSO. Component three activities could be expected to enhance the ICT
environment of the three cities. The project design and the PDO was however broad and ambitious. and the results
framework did not convincingly link outputs and outcomes, and the intended outcomes were not measurable within
the lifetime of the project.

Relevance of Revised Design : Substantial

The revised design involved new activities and improved the results framework. The indicators were revised to make
them more specific and attributable to the project. As a result of the restructuring, there was better causal links
between the activities for the institutional development of the MIC, GSO, MoFA, and the cities of Hanoi and Danang
and the outcomes of improving the delivery of public services by these agencies. In addition, the activities related to
the cities of Danang and Hanoi are better linked to the outcome of improving the ICT environment of the two cities. As
a result, the combination of these activities involving the government Ministries and cities can be expected to
contribute to the higher level objectives of accelerating growth through transition to a market economy.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

A split rating was conducted for the assessment, as done in the ICR (page 20), to assess the project's efficacy, as the
objectives and related outcome indicators were revised following the project restructuring in 2010.

Original Objective One : To accelerate the use of ICT and support institutional development to increase transparency
and availability of information, and improve public services delivery to stakeholders: was rated as: Negligible.

Outputs:

The following activities were completed as targeted(ICR, pages 34-49).

    The MIC's ICT infrastructure system was reviewed and their future needs determined. E-government framework,
     policy and standards was finalized. E government Architecture and interoperability standards were formulated.
     Personal computers, laptops and printers, e mail and video conferencing equipment was installed in the ministry
     and in 12 District offices. Information Communication Intelligent system was installed at the MIC Headquarters in
     Hanoi and at the MIC Data center in Hanoi. Internal e mail system, Video Conferencing system and MIC Portal
     was developed for providing complementary informational, interactive and transactional services. Test center for
     issuing and verifying digital certificates was installed. The National IT Master Plan was completed by MIC.
    497 Chief Inspection Officers and Inspection Officers were trained. This included 277 from the Ministries, 150
     from State owned Enterprises and 79 from SMEs.
    ICT awareness training programs were conducted for the stakeholders.


Outcomes:

    There is no quantitative evidence either on the increased transparency and availability of information public
     administration or on the improved public service delivery to stakeholders, either through user surveys or case
     studies.

Original Objective Two : To Foster private sector development in particular by facilitating the increased adoption of
ICT's by SME's.. was rated as: Negligible.

Outputs:

    268 SMEs in Danang were trained through e learning courses. 100 Chief Information Officers in SME's were
     trained using local funds. E learning Portal was launched with 400 courses available in ICT and Soft skills - with
     15 modules targeted specifically to SME's.

Outcomes:

    The project anticipated annual growth of 30% in the domestic IT service through the project implementation
     period as a result of private sector involvement in the sector. However, no baseline had been established to
     assess the incremental gains.
    15% of the SME's in the three cities were anticipated to be using ICT for business purposes as targeted, 18% of
     the SME's in Danang were reported to be using ICT for business purposes at closure. There were no comparable
     figures for Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh city. It is also not clear the extent to which the increase in ICT by SME's in
     Danang could be attributed to the project activities.
Revised Objective One : " To support MIC's institutional development and technical and regulatory capacity oversight
and to increase efficiency and transparency of public service delivery in MIC, GSO, MoFA, and Hanoi and Danang:
was rated as Modest.

Outputs:

These outputs were completed as targeted (ICR 34-49).

    See the outputs listed above under objective one as they are also relevant for objective two.
    Four standards were formulated by MIC. These included, the Enterprise Architecture Standards (defined as a
     strategic technique to help senior managers achieve business and organizational changes) , Interoperability
     Standards (defined as the means to enable public administrations to collaborate), E government Standards and
     Security Standards. Three e services were available online and the application processes for these services
     could be completed electronically as per the revised target.
    The GSO ICT infrastructure was upgraded and their Enterprise Architecture was completed. Course standards
     for training their staff was designed and 690 GSO staff (including at the provincial level) were trained on new
     sector databases, database standardization and integration and network administration. Statistical Information
     Collection was installed at their Headquarters in Hanoi and at the three IT centers in Hanoi. Danang and Ho Chi
     Minh city. All provincial statistical offices of GSO were connected with Headquarters and GSO data center was
     set up in Hanoi to facilitate their work flows and procedures. GSO's questionnaires were redesigned and an
     optical scanning system was established at GSO and employees were trained for conducting the 2009 population
     census. Global Information system (GIS) application support mapping administration field office was established.
     GSO Intranet Website and Portal was re designed and implemented by project closure. .
    Key ICT infrastructure needs of Hanoi and Danang were assessed, and the priority business processes that were
     to be e enabled was identified in the two cities. 30 government leaders in Hanoi were trained in advanced ICT
     governance, project management and other ICT activities. Danang e government strategy, roadmap and city
     level Enterprise Architecture was completed and their ICT infrastructure was upgraded. 90 departments and
     agencies in Danang were provided with video phones and video conference services. Their business process
     database, and business registration and Investment Project Management systems was developed. 21 e services
     (such as for providing driver's license) was completed as per the revised target. Danang's ICT Human Resources
     Development Master Plan was developed and approved by the People's Committee.
    All activities to the Ho Chi Minh City (such as identifying which business processes should be e enabled,
     developing e government strategy, road map and city level IT architecture for e government, reviewing their plans
     for ICT transaction center and equipping facilities, providing e procurement information via an e procurement
     portal to business, and implementing e applications in the areas of vehicle registration, driving licenses and office
     licenses, developing a Master Plan for ICT human resource development and developing training programs was
     completed through government funding.

Outcomes:

    The ICR (page 18) notes that the average transaction time reduced by 50% for selected government services via
     the city portal. Time taken for processing the registration for imported publications decreased by 50%. Online
     visa processing time by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs averaged 2.5 days.
    The ICR (page 19) notes that the time taken by GSO for collecting and processing the population census data
     through the newly introduced IT processes was reduced from 24 months to 12 months. The ICR further asserts
     that the estimated cost savings due to the reduction in the time taken for processing the census data was
     estimated to be US$500,000, under the assumption that the data entry staff were paid the average monthly
     salary for government workers. The time taken for processing the agriculture and rural census data reduced by
     50% (from two years to one year).The time taken for data collection and processing the Consumer Price Index
     fell by a third (from 15 to 10 days). The ICR however provides very little evidence to back these assertions..
    A beneficiary survey was conducted at the project closure stage using qualitative information from 642 citizens,
     75 businesses, and 38 public agencies. The ICR (page 70) states that this study did not focus exclusively on the
     ICT development project. The main conclusions of the study were: (i) The majority of respondents believed that
     Danang's newly instituted ICT processes was providing good quality infrastructure to the public and government
     agencies (ii) The ICT Online services in Danang were being used more as a source of information to the public
     on public service procedures than as a new method for facilitating online transactions between Government and
     the public.
    While the newly instituted ICT processes in the respective ministries may have contributed to the reduction in
     processing time, the ICR does not provide a basis for comparing "with the project" and "without the project." In
     the absence of this information, it is difficult to determine the extent to which the project contributed to this
     objective

Revised Objective Two : To foster private sector development by increasing access to business related services and
raising awareness and usage of ICT in Hanoi and Danang. was rated as Modest.

Outputs:

    See the outputs listed above under objective one as they are also relevant for objective two.

Outcomes

    Results based on a localized survey in Danang indicated that 33% of the SME's were using ICT and 18% were
     using it for business purposes at the project closure stage.
    Results of a survey based on field interviews via phone interviews with 300 persons in the provinces of Hanoi and
     Danang are summarized as follows (ICR, page 76-77): (i) 45% of the respondents in Danang and 48% in Hanoi
     reported time savings due to the ICT process. (ii) About 23% of the respondents in Danang and 40% in Hanoi
     reported cost savings with the ICT process. (iii) 46% of the respondents in Danang and 15% in Hanoi reported
     that government procedures were made simpler by the process, and (iv) More than 50% of the respondents in
     Danang and 27% of the respondents in Hanoi reported that there was transparency due to the ICT process. Very
     little detail is provided in the ICR about the methodology followed in administering the survey.
    The ICR does not provide hard evidence that increasing access to business services and raising awareness and
     usage of ICT in Hanoi and Danang fostered private sector development.

5. Efficiency:

Efficiency: Modest.

No financial or economic analysis was conducted either at appraisal stage or at project closure. The PAD (page 16)
notes that the project financed capital investments and these were not expected to generate direct revenues.

The PAD (page 16) also notes that ICT development could potentially contribute significantly to growth, given the high
literacy rate and fast growing hardware and software industry in Vietnam. The ICR (page 19) notes that the there was
a reduction in processing time for government services due to ICT interventions, and this could have contributed to
the cost savings. The ICR (page 19) notes that the total estimated value of the Danang sub project at appraisal was
US$27.3 million. After five years of implementation, Danang project implementation unit saved US$6.1 million through
competitive procurement practices, and used this savings to purchase additional equipment.

There were administrative and operational inefficiencies and this contributed to the time overruns. The bidding
documents were not ready prior to Board approval and this contributed to the low disbursement in the initial years.
Changing specifications to key procurement packages identified in 2008, resulted in bidding documents not being
ready until 18 months later and the project closed 30 months beyond the scheduled closing date.



 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       No
     ICR estimate                    No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The original and revised project development objective was substantially relevant to both the government strategy
and the Bank strategy for Vietnam. The original design was rated as Modest and the revised design as Substantial.
Efficacy of the two objectives were rated as Negligible before restructuring when 10 percent had been disbursed, and
Modest after restructuring when 90 percent had been disbursed. Efficiency was rated as Modest. There was no
calculation of the financial and economic rate of return, and the administrative and operational inefficiencies
contributed to the time overruns.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
Overall, the risks to development outcome are assessed as significant.

     The project financed a number of innovative technology and ICT systems and although the project activities
      aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity of the state agencies, citizens ICT literacy was low. The ICR
      (page 23) notes that at project closure, only about a third of the population (35%) was using Internet, and that
      only about 18.8% of the households had computers.
     Despite the investments made in the ICT sector, and the recent legal directives and resolutions that indicate the
      Government's commitment to modernizing the ICT sector, it is not clear whether there will be adequate budgetary
      provisions for funding the operation, maintenance and replacement costs of the sector.


     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The preparation of the project built on the lessons learnt from prior projects in Vietnam and from the lessons
learnt from ICT projects in neighboring countries such as Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand. The preparation
of the project also benefitted from close collaboration with other donors who were financing complementary ICT
sector activities in Vietnam. Risks directly associated with the project were identified, including those related to
institutional resistance to change in businesses procedures, and lack of common approach to ICT architecture
and incompatibility of city information systems. Several risk mitigation measures were planned and the overall
project risk was rated as Moderate.

However, the project underestimated the readiness and country conditions/context (ICR, page 24). The design
was complex, and the activities were largely foundational and required human behavioral change. The ICR (page
6) notes that under the country conditions including a new client in a challenging political economy and the
complex foundation of infrastructure systems and services, the M&E capacity could not be established to measure
the development impact of the project at closure.

As indicated in section 3b, the original design was too broad and the results framework did not convincingly link
outputs and outcomes. The preparation team lacked members with sufficient expertise or operational experience
in ICT (ICR, page 24). There were significant shortcomings in M&E design.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    There were 11 supervision missions over a seven year period (implying on average fewer than two missions
per year). The ICR (page 24) reports that this was well under the Bank's norm The ICR however does not provide
any details about the continuity of the team and the skill mix of the supervision team.

Although there were Bank staff placed in Hanoi for dealing with procurement and Financial Management issues,
the supervision from the Bank team at Headquarters was uneven during the project implementation phase.
Despite the recommendations of the Management which identified the need for intensive Bank supervision of the
inexperienced Project Implementation Unit, the missions from headquarters did not increase to provide more
intense supervision until the final years of the project.

Although the Mid Term Review identified and provided a diagnosis of the issues affecting the project
implementation, the supervision team did not simplify the project design to the extent required during the
implementation phase.

Although the indicators for monitoring were revised after the restructuring, the results framework was not
simplified enough to improve measurability of outcomes at project closure and this had repercussions for M&E
implementation.


     Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Unsatisfactory
9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Although the project development objective was important for the country, the government's commitment to the
project was uneven. This was evidenced by the delays in sending a requesting for second restructuring despite
several remainders by the Bank. The ICR (page 25) notes that the Government's last minute request for further
extension of the project was unjustified.

As indicated in section 2d, the Government contribution was less than planned at closure.


   Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

There were five project implementation units (Ministry of Information and Communication, the General Statistical
Office, the municipalities of Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh and Danang), and there was a Project Coordination Unit.

Ministry of Information and Communication : The ICR (page 26) notes that ownership of the project by the
Ministry was uneven, and the frequent changes in their procurement plans caused delays.

General Statistical Office . GSO executed a communication and outreach program to familiarize the staff and
public on the modernization process. The GSO was able to increase the scope of the projects from the
reallocation of funds following the formal structuring of the project (discussed in section 2d).

Hanoi: The implementation of the project was subject to delays due a combination of factors including frequent
turnover in team membership and lack of qualified staff to handle procurement issues. This in turn led to delays in
finalizing procurement packages.

Danang: The commitment to the project remained strong as evidenced by the following factors. The agency
worked effectively with specialist consultancies to design plans. Clear procurement time tables aided in promoting
faster and more efficient approval of procurement packages.

Ho Chi Minh: Although the Ho Chi Minh city sub project was cancelled by the project restructuring, planned
outputs were implemented with the city budget (as discussed in section 4a).


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   Monitoring and evaluation was to be done through a Management Information System with semi-annual progress
reports prepared by the Project Implementing Unit and the Project Coordinating Unit.

The original PDO was broad, and key aspects of the project development outcome (such as the ICT in GDP, increase
in ICT quality and knowledge in respective government departments, increased productivity for business operations
through ICT) could not be measured within the life of the project.

As mentioned above, the casual link between the project outcome indicators and PDO internal elements was unclear,
and outputs were confused with outcomes.

The number of indicators (12 key outcome indicators before restructuring and 68 intermediate indicators) were
excessive and many of the indicators were neither specific nor relevant.

b. M&E Implementation:
The 2010 restructuring of the project narrowed PDO scope to focus more tightly on IDA activities and added several
core indicators concerning processing time for public services and user perception of e services. Revisions however
focused more on input indicators measuring implementation rather than results.

M&E implementation was weak as the PIU focused more on procurement packages than tracking the achievement of
development outcomes.

c. M&E Utilization:

As the adjustments to the results framework were done in 2013, end project outcomes could not be measured (ICR,
page 12).

M&E utilization was weak as the quality of data and reporting were low, and collected data was not used for planning
or decision-making. According to the ICR, it improved towards the end of the project and a number of evaluations
were carried out to inform the future operations.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The project was an environment Category C, and did not trigger any safeguard policies (PAD, page 20). The ICR
(page 12) reports that the category did not change with restructuring.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management :

The financial management capacity of the project implementation unit and the project coordination unit was uneven.
The ICR (page 13) notes that there was no institutional base or identified staff for project financial management, and
there was no computerized system in place to track project transactions and conduct financial reporting.

Of the eight audit reports that were required, seven were completed. Three audits were delayed and with two of them
there were issues of accountability and internal controls. The ICR (page 13) reports that the auditors opinions were
qualified on occasion.

Procurement

The ICR (page 12-13) notes that procurement risk was rated as high at appraisal because the project implementing
units had not yet been established nor their procurement staff identified. There were delays with PIU approvals and
some project implementing units did not communicate to the Bank the need for guidance. There were difficulties in
getting agencies clearance/approval of project procurement documents. The ICR does not report any instance of mis
procurement.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant               Significant
                      Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR (page 27-28) draws the following main lessons from the project.

    While designing complex projects with ambitious targets, the design needs to be balanced carefully against the
     client's human resource endowment and readiness to execute. While many Bank projects entail "learning by
     doing", it would be useful to have a proper and realistic assessment of the absorptive capacity at the
     preparation stage, particularly when dealing with a new sector.
    A review of Bank's procurement requirements, processes and documents may be useful for upcoming projects
     in the fast evolving IT sector. In the case of this project, innovations in the sector caused the technical
     specifications to become outdated and as a result, contracting could not proceed and this caused delays during
     the implementation phase.
    It would be useful for the Bank to negotiate mechanisms for joint management of essential functions (such as
     procurement, financial and M&E) in projects like this which had multiple implementing agencies.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is candid in acknowledging the problems that were encountered both in the initial years of the project and
during the project implementation phase. The glossary of ICT terminology provided in Annex 2 (page 31) was very
helpful.
However, the discussion of the results framework, output and outcome both before and after restructuring is quite
confusing. The ICR at times refers to outputs as outcome indicators.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
