                          Document of
                       The World Bank


                                                Report No: 67448-CO




                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                             ON A

              PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                          OF THE
            COLOMBIAN NATIONAL PROTECTED AREAS
              CONSERVATION TRUST FUND PROJECT

                  (GEF TF GRANT NO. TF-56351)

                BOARD APPROVED ON 03/29/2006

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF
                        US$15 MILLION
                          (ORIGINAL)

                            TO THE

PATRIMONIO NATURAL-FONDO DE APOYO A LA BIODIVERSIDAD Y ?REAS
     PROTEGIDAS (RECIPIENT) AND THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
                        (BENEFICIARY)


                        MARCH 12, 2012
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



AF       Additional Financing
NPACTF   The National Protected Areas Conservation Trust Fund Project
SIRAPM   Colombian Macizo Regional Protected Area System (Sistema Regional de
         ?reas Protegidas del Macizo Colombiano)
GEF      Global Environmental Facility




             Regional Vice President:       Hasan Tuluy
                   Country Director:        Gloria M. Grandolini
                     Sector Director:       Ede Ijjasz-Vasquez
                    Sector Manager:         Karin E. Kemper
                  Task Team Leader:         Richard Damania



                                        2
Restructuring
Restructuring Type: Extension Closing Date
Last modified on date : 08/10/2011

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                                     P091932: Colombian National Protected Areas
                                                      Conservation TF
Country                                               Colombia
Task Team Leader                                      Richard Damania
Sector Manager                                        Karin Erika Kemper
Country Director                                      Gloria M. Grandolini
Original Board Approval Date                          03/29/2006
Original Closing Date:                                10/18/2011
Current Closing Date                                  04/18/2012
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]                 04/18/2013
EA Category                                           B-Partial Assessment
Revised EA Category
EA Completion Date                                    04/15/2005
Revised EA Completion Date


2. Revised Financing Plan (US$m)
Source                                                           Original                           Revised
BORR                                                                  27.40                               27.40
GEFU                                                                  15.00                               15.00
Total                                                                 42.40                               42.40


3. Recipient
          Organization                               Department                                Location
 Patrimonio Natural-Fondo de                                                      Colombia
apoyo a la Biodiversidad y ?reas
Protegidas1


4. Implementing Agency
           Organization                              Department                               Location
 Patrimonio Natural-Fondo de                                                    Colombia
apoyo a la Biodiversidad y ?reas
Protegidas2


     1
         Previously known as “Fundación Fondo de Apoyo a la Biodiversidad y ?reas Protegidas (FUNBAP)?
     2
         Idem
                                                        3
5. Disbursement Estimates (US$m)
Actual amount disbursed as of 03/05/2012                                                        13.73
         Fiscal Year                             Annual                            Cumulative
2011                                                        2.301                               13.73
                                                        Total                                   13.73


6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                                 N


Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes, please select from           N
the checklist below and update ISDS accordingly before submitting the package.




7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
The Project Development Objective is to launch a conservation trust fund that will: a) support the
consolidation of Colombia’s National Protected Areas System; and b) contribute to arrest and reverse
trends in biodiversity loss.



7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes [if applicable]

Not revised




                                                4
COLOMBIA — COLOMBIAN NATIONAL PROTECTED AREAS CONSERVATION
                        TRUST FUND
                       P091932 GRANT

                                  Restructuring Paper

A. Summary


1. A National Protected Area Conservation Trust Fund (NPACTF) Grant Agreement of
   US$15M was signed by Patrimonio Natural-Fondo de Apoyo a la Biodiversidad y
   ?reas Protegidas (previously known as Fundación Fondo de Apoyo a la
   Biodiversidad y ?reas Protegidas-FUNBAP- the Recipient) and became effective on
   June 15, 2006, with an original closing date of October 18, 2011.

2. The client, Patrimonio Natural, requested an extension of the closing date from
   October 18, 2011 to April 18, 2012. The Additional Finance to the Colombian
   National Protected Areas Conservation Trust Fund (TF-11814/ P091932) for US$4
   Million was effective on November 22, 2011. The extension was needed to allow for
   information sharing and learning between the new project areas and the existing
   Project. The current closing date is April 18, 2012.

3. Patrimonio Natural is requesting an additional extension of the closing date for one
   year from April 18, 2012 to April 18, 2013, to consolidate Patrimonio Natural and
   support the National Protected Areas System. This extension is required due to the
   unanticipated consequences of the global financial crisis. The project’s
   implementation is satisfactory and it has surpassed most of its indicators, but because
   of the global financial situation Patrimonio Natural has had difficulty raising co-
   financing funds needed for the project’s Endowment Fund. Part of the project
   includes an Endowment Fund which requires one-to-one matching co-financing from
   other sources. As of today, the GEF has disbursed US$ 6.5 Million (from US$ 7.5) to
   the Endowment Fund with matching funds but is left with undisbursed funds. It was
   envisaged that matching funds would be available for the remaining US$ 1 Million
   from a donor in Europe but this commitment was recently revoked. Undisbursed
   funds are US$1,265,230. US$265.230 will be disbursed to the sinking fund.

4. The Project Development Objective (PDO) as stated in the Grant Agreement is to
   launch a conservation trust fund that will: (a) support the consolidation of Colombia’s
   National Protected Areas System and (b) contribute to arresting and reversing trends
   in biodiversity loss. The Global Environmental Objective (GEO) is to arrest and
   reverse trends of biodiversity loss in Colombia´s globally important ecosystems.




                                            5
B. Project Status

5. The performance of the Project, including compliance with applicable safeguards
   policies and legal covenants, has been exemplary and deemed satisfactory on all
   Project indicators. The Project implementing agency, Patrimonio Natural-Fondo de
   apoyo a la Biodiversidad y ?reas Protegidas3, has demonstrated a strong
   commitment to achieving the PDO. As a result, implementation performance and the
   latest fiduciary reviews have been consistently rated satisfactory.

6. The Project is on track to meet its development objectives and outcome indicators.
   Some of the achievements include:

    a) An endowment fund that has been capitalized to the extent of US$15.1 Million
    (100% of the PDO indicator) of which US$6.5 Million was contributed by the GEF.
    Investment returns have met their goals despite the volatility of financial markets and
    low returns worldwide.4

    b) The Project currently operates in 9 conservation mosaics (landscapes), with core
    areas totaling 2.2 million ha. Over 91 percent of grant funds have been disbursed (as
    planned). The management strategy is tailored to pressures and environmental
    priorities in each area. The protected areas are at the core of the mosaic and are
    managed with an overarching focus on achieving conservation objectives. In the
    buffer areas outside the parks the focus is on promoting land-use and management
    actions that support environmental management and sustainable production in ways
    that are aligned with conservation goals and contribute to lowering the impacts of
    human interventions on the parks.

    c) The Recipient’s administrative, legal, and technical units are fully operational, and
    have allowed the co-financing for the sinking funds to surpass more than two times
    the original of US$ 19.9 Million to about US$ 42 Million (co-financing from the GEF
    to the sinking fund is US$7.5 Million). The GEF has disbursed US$ 6.5 Million (from
    US$ 7.5) to the Endowment Fund. In addition, the project’s monitoring, evaluation,
    and dissemination strategies are under implementation.

C. Proposed Changes

7. Patrimonio Natural is requesting an additional extension of the closing date for one
   year from April 18, 2012 to April 18, 2013. Project implementation is satisfactory,
   but because of the global financial situation it has been very difficult for Patrimonio
   Natural to raise co-financing funds for the Endowment Fund. GEF contributions to
   the Endowment Fund require equivalent matching funds. The GEF has disbursed US$
   6.5 Million (from US$ 7.5) to the Endowment Fund (91% of the Grant). Undisbursed

3
  Formerly known in the original Grant Agreement as Fundación Fondo de Apoyo a la Biodiversidad y ?reas
Protegidas-FUNBAP) The Recipient´s assembly of founders modified the Recipient´s legal personality on December
19, 2006 as “Patrimonio Natural- Fondo para la Biodiversidad y ?reas Protegidas?. This new legal personality was
duly registered in Bogota, Colombia on December 21, 2006.
4
  US$6.5M as counterpart funds from the debt-for-nature swap agreement signed with the U.S. government through
the Tropical Forest Conservation Act.
                                                       6
   funds are US$ 1,265,230. US$ 1 Million require matching funds. The Bank on behalf
   of the Government of Colombia requested the GEF to wave the co-financing
   requirement but this request was rejected on February 25, 2012 by the GEF.

8. Patrimonio Natural is actively working towards raising co-financing funds from
   different donors. Patrimonio Natural is also discussing with other Colombian
   governmental entities (Ministerio de Ambiente y Desarrollo Sostenible, Ministerio de
   Hacienda y Crédito Público, Departamento Nacional de Planeación) the possibility
   of a debt for nature swap to capitalize de Endowment Fund. Thus, Patrimonio Natural
   has requested an additional extension of the closing date to raise the co-financing
   funds needed for the disbursement of the GEF funds to the Endowment Fund. There
   is an action plan in place to complete the Project within this period.


9. This will be the second extension of the Project. The Project meets the following
   conditions: i) the implementation of the Colombian National Protected Areas
   Conservation TF Project and the performance of Patrimonio Natural are satisfactory;
   ii) the Project objectives continue to be achievable; iii) there are no outstanding audit,
   financial management, procurement, or safeguards issues; and, iv) neither this Grant
   in particular, nor Colombia in general, is subject to an ongoing suspension of
   disbursements. This request for an extension is the consequence of events beyond the
   control of the implementing agency.




                                             7
