Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB45
Project Name              DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - Power Sector Technical Assistance Project
Region                    Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                    Power (80%); General energy sector (20%)
Theme                     Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Regulation and
competition policy (S)
Project                   P082715
Borrower(s)               GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Implementing Agency(ies)  NATIONAL ENERGY COMMISSION (CNE)
Address: Gustavo Mejia Ricart Esq. Agustin Lara, Edif. de la CREP, 3er Piso,
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
Contact Person: Ing. Antonio Almonte
Tel: (809) 547-3044  Fax: (809) 547-2073   Email:
aalmonte@cne.gov.do
Environment Category      C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared         January 13, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date       September 2, 2003
Bank Approval Date        February 3, 2004
1. Country and Sector Background
This proposed five-year Power Sector Technical Assistance Project is an element of an overall
assistance package to the Dominican Republic power sector outlined in the accompanying
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report. Under the base case scenario, this will also
include financing for emergency fuel imports in the Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan, and
in the high case scenario, a follow-up Power Sector Reform Programmatic Loan.
The project seeks to assist the power sector overcome major difficulties which have built up since
an extensive but incomplete reform process culminated in 1999 with the privatization of most
generation and distribution assets. As a result of multiple institutional and operational flaws, the
sector is facing the possibility of extensive blackouts and a collapse in servicing its load.
The long-term objectives of the total program assistance package are to support the Government
in realizing its original vision and completing the second-generation reforms in the electricity
sector. Specifically, these objectives are to:
*   Improve the quality of service, especially by ending the persistent black-outs of recent
years;
* Increase the percentage of population with access to electricity;
* . Raise the efficiency of power sector operations;
*   Attract new investors in power distribution; and



2
PID
* Ensure that the operating entities in the sector have the opportunity to achieve financial
sustainability.
2. Objectives
The proposed Power Sector Technical Assistance (TA) Project will have several specific
objectives and is designed to provide expert assistance to help:
*   Strengthen the Government's regulatory and consumer protection performance,
by reviewing and correcting problems with the regulatory system and the institutional
structure, and strengthening the Electricity Superintendency (SIE) and the Consumer
Protection Office (PROTECOM);
*   Improve policy formulation and implementation by: (i) promoting a national
dialogue to achieve a consensus on required reforms and the participation of the private
sector; (ii) strengthening the National Energy Commission (CNE); (iii) funding public
consultation processes; and (iv) improving the management of Government interests as
shareholder in power sector enterprises through the Fondo Patrimonial (FONPER);
*   Design the transmission grid and the wholesale power market, to improve system
reliability and increase competition in the wholesale power market;
*   Increase the quantity and quality of electricity for the poor, through rural
electrification programs and by improving the Blackout Reduction Program (Programa
Nacional de Reducci6n de Apagones, PRA) in urban barrios; and
* Protect the environment, by analyzing and addressing sectoral environmental issues.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank supports the Project with its extensive experience with TA loans and how they should
be managed to maximize their impact. As in other countries, Bank support is helpful in ensuring
that the best worldwide expertise is made available to the Dominican Republic. The Bank has
been involved in similar reform efforts in many other countries, especially in Latin America,
including Colombia, Peru, Argentina, Bolivia and Brazil. The Bank can help take a comprehensive
look at both the policy and institutional requirements of the sector, and can assist in consensus
building around proposed reforms.
4. Description
Technical Assistance will be provided for the following components:
1. Regulation and consumer protection
2. Policy formulation
3. Transmission and power market development
4. Electricity for the poor
5. Environmental protection
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($3.70)



3
PID
IBRD ($7.30)
Total Project Cost: $11.00
6. Implementation
The TA would be implemented under the responsibility of CNE. The Commission would create a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to coordinate all technical and administrative aspects. The
PIU would receive guidance from a Steering Committee representing SIE, CNE, Dominican
Corporation of State Electric Companies (CDEEE), and the Coordinating Body of the
Interconnected System (OC), and headed by the Secretary of Finance (or a designated
representative). The Steering Committee would also include an independent outside member
who, together with the Secretary of Finance, would provide a wider vision of sector requirements.
The PIU would draft the overall guidelines for the Project, and would approve, evaluate, monitor
and control all phases of implementation. All other PIU functions would be outsourced, as
required, to consultants, attorneys, consulting companies and accounting experts, who would be
responsible for preparing TORs, and reviewing contracts and reports.
The project manager will ensure that, early in project start-up, there will be a Bank-sponsored
project launch, which will involve Bank specialists in procurement, financial management, and
legal issues. Supervision missions will be undertaken at least twice a year. The supervision
missions will periodically include a financial management specialist and a procurement specialist.
Project supervision will be front-loaded and focus initially on ensuring that the PIU is able to cany
out its responsibilities, and on defining the terms of reference for key studies and consultants, and
ensuring selection of qualified personnel. Thereafter, supervision would focus on indicators
related to oversight of effective inter-agency coordination and market performance signals.
In addition to regular supervision, and distinct from the assessment of the project implementation
progress, the Bank would periodically review with CNE the progress with the implementation of
sector reforms.
7. Sustainability
A primary objective of the TA is to help ensure that the power sector reforms are not halted,
reversed or rendered ineffective due to politicization or the belief that the benefits are accruing to
only a small part of the population. The experience in Latin America and elsewhere has been that
the lack of commitment and coordination from Government may jeopardize the continued
implementation of such reforms. Past experience in the sector shows that this remains a risk in the
Dominican Republic. However, it is acknowledged by the Government and the CAS Progress
Report that resolving the electricity sector issue is now critical to the country's economic and
social stability. The CAS Progress Report's call for a national consensus around electricity sector
reform should help in making the next set of reform measures more sustainable.
A key issue is the financial sustainability of the sector enterprises. In this regard, the monitorable
outcome would be improvements in the cash recovery index for the sector. Improvements in this



4
PID
index are expected due to the Anti-Fraud Program (PAEF) and PRA programs, and would be
required for continued Bank program support.
The sustainability of the Project's results, per se, is essentially a problem of preserving knowledge
in the beneficiary organizations. This requires adequate budgetary support for the different
agencies, and it is likely to materialize: (a) the budgets of CNE and SIE are deternined by law and
do not depend on National Budget allocations; (b) the temporary programs, PAEF and PRA,
which are nevertheless expected to extend beyond the duration of the Project, are supported by
the sector and are also not dependent on the Government budget; and (d) Dominican State
Electric Transmission Company (ETED) and Dominican Hydroelectric Generation Company
(EGEHD) will be set up on the basis of sound business plans which should ensure their
sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A number of lessons have been learned and reflected from Bank TA operations:
Lesson                                      TA Design
Capacity of PIU. The key to the success of TA projects is the  The Bank will supervise the selection of
staffing of the PIU.                                   the Project Coordinator and PIU staff.
Ownership. Successful TA projects are characterized by  There is broad consensus within
demand for support emanating from beneficiary organizations  Government that beneficiary
according to their needs, rather than through extemal pressures.  organizations require strengthening.
From inception, project design was done
in association with local counterparts.
Flexibility. The TA format can also provide urgently required  TA design flexible enough to allow
resources in response to unforeseen circumstances.     respond to developing requirements.
Unbiased progress evaluation. The Steering Committee   An independent member of the Steefing
should include a knowledgeable sector expert who is not part of Committee will be appointed.
the beneficiaries' staff, in order to provide an independent
viewpoint regarding Project orientation and support for adding
additional institutions.
Inspection and quality control. Studies financed by the  Technical audits will be expected for all
Project should be subject to independent review, in order to  studies with costs in excess of a given
assure that they respond to the beneficiary agencies' real needs.  limit or at the behest of the PIU
coordinator.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : Because this is a Technical Assistance project, it does not finance investments and
therefore does not entail environmental or social impacts. The TA loan includes US$1.3 million to
strengthen environmental planning and management in the power sector.
10. List of factual technical documents:
N/A



5
PID
11. Contact Point:
Jyoti Shukla
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-0826
Fax: (202) 522-2106
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:/l www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.



