Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7217-DO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Power Sector Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 9, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7217-DO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 9, 2004, between the Dominican Republic (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Administration Arrangement” means any of the arrangements set forth 
in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
"Annual Action Plan" means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.07 
(a) of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Beneficiary Institution” means a public entity which has partial or total 
jurisdiction over one or more Project activities to be included in a given Annual Action 
Plan; 
 
(d) “CDE” 
means 
Compañía Dominicana de Electricidad, 
the Borrower’s 
Power Company; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(e) 
“CDEEE” means 
Corporación Dominicana de Empresas Eléctricas 
Estatales
,
the Borrower’s  Conglomerate of Electric Companies; 
 
(f) “CNE” 
means 
Comisión Nacional de Energía
,
the Borrower’s National 
Energy Commission; 
 
(g) 
“DISCOS” means Electricity Distribution Companies; 
 
(h) “EDENORTE” 
means 
Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Norte; 
 
(i) “EDESTE” 
means 
Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Este;
 
(j) “EDESUR” 
means 
Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Sur;
 
(k) “EGEHID” 
means 
Empresa de Generación Hidroeléctrica Dominicana
,
the Borrower’s hydro generation company; 
 
(l) “ETED” 
means 
Empresa de Transmisión Eléctrica Dominicana
,
the 
Borrower’s  Transmission Company; 
 
(m) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(n) “FONPER” 
means 
Fondo Patrimonial de las Empresas Reformadas, 
the 
Borrower’s Patrimonial Fund
;
(o) 
“GENCOS” means the generation companies that operate on the 
Borrower’s territory; 
 
(p) 
“General Electricity Law” means the Borrower’s Electricity Law No. 
125-01; 
 
(q) 
“IPP” means Independent Power Producers;  
 
(r) “OC” 
means 
Organismo Coordinador, 
the Borrower’s Coordinating 
Body
;
(s) 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.05 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(t) “PAEF” 
means 
Programa de Apoyo a la Eliminación del Fraude 
Eléctrico
,
the Borrower’s  Anti-Fraud Program; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(u) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the 
Supplemental Letter (as hereinafter defined), for monitoring and evaluating progress 
towards the attainment of Project objectives; 
 
(v) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit set forth in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(w) 
“PPA” means Power Purchase Agreements; 
 
(x) “PRA” 
means 
Programa de Reducción de Apagones
,
the Borrower’s 
Blackout Reduction Program, created pursuant Presidential Decree No. 1080-01, dated 
November 3, 2001; 
 
(y) “PROTECOM” 
means 
Oficina de Protección al Consumidor
,
the 
Borrower’s Consumer Protection Office; 
 
(z) “SIE” 
means 
Superintendencia del Electricidad
,
the Borrower’s 
Electricity Superintendence; 
 
(aa) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(bb) 
“Supplemental Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Performance Indicators.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seven million 
three hundred thousand Dollars ($7,300,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
(i) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of carrying out the Project, 
open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account 
(the Special Account) in its Central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(ii) 
deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (a) cause CNE 
to carry out the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, legal, and technical practices; and: (b) shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. Throughout the course of the Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall cause CNE to maintain a Project implementation unit (PIU) within CNE.  The 
Borrower shall cause CNE to ensure that the PIU is at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, headed by a Project manager, assisted by staff in numbers 
and with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, operating under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and selected in accordance with competitive and 
transparent procedures satisfactory to the Bank, all as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause CNE to, without limitation to the 
other provisions of this Agreement, carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank and to be prepared by the PIU, said manual 
to include specific rules and procedures for Project implementation; and 
 
(b) 
the Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to 
time, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to facilitate continued Project implementation.  
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CNE to enter into separate inter-institutional 
administrative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (the Administration Arrangements), 
one with each one of the Beneficiary Institutions, setting forth their respective 
responsibilities in the implementation of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause CNE to exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the Administration Arrangements in such a manner as to protect the 
interest of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause CNE not to assign, 
amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Administration 
Arrangement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause CNE to: 
 
(a) 
not later than November 30 of each year of Project implementation, 
starting in year 2003, furnish to the Bank, for its approval, an annual action plan, each 
said plan to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the Project activities to be carried out by the Borrower 
with the assistance of the Beneficiary Institutions, during the calendar year following the 
presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the procurement plan and disbursement schedule 
for each of said Project activities;  
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b)  
thereafter implement each said Annual Action Plan in accordance with 
its terms; 
 
(c) 
carry out the Annual Action Plan for the year 2003 as approved by the 
Bank prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
 
(d) 
by no later than November 30 of each year during the implementation of 
the Project, starting in the year 2004, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of the 
progress of the carrying out of the Project and the Annual Action Plan (as measured in 
accordance with the indicators set forth in the Supplemental Letter). 
 
Section 3.08. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 above, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
make available an amount in Dollars equivalent to three million seven 
hundred thousand Dollars ($3,700,000) as counterpart funds for the Project; and  
 
(b) 
establish and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, an 
account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, with an 
initial deposit of three hundred thousand Dollars ($300,000) equivalent prior to the 
Effective Date. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause CNE to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause CNE to: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
Page  9
-
8
-
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
CNE to: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.  
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 (d) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CNE 
to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
Page  10
-
9
-
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
that the Operational Manual has been issued and put into effect; 
 
(b) 
that the PIU has been established and staffed as set forth in Section 3.04 
of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
that the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement have been contracted to carry out the audits referred to in said section; and 
 
(d) 
the Bank has been furnished with documentary evidence, satisfactory to 
it, confirming the availability of the funds referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. The date June 7, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Sec
retaría de Estado de Finanzas 
 
Avenida México # 45 
 
Santo Domingo, República Dominicana 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(809) 682-2353 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11 - 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Carlos Despradel  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Marco Mantovanelli 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  13
-
12 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods 
300,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
75%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) Consultants' 
 
 
 
services 
5,500,000 
85% of foreign  
 
consultants  and  
 
80%
of local 
 
consultants 
 
(3) Training 
300,000 
100% 
 
(4) Operating 
Costs 
  400,000 
100% 
 
(5) Unallocated 
727,000 
100% 
 
(6) 
Front-end fee 
73,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(7) 
Premia for Interest 
- 0 - 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
this Agreement 
 
________ 
 TOTAL 
7
,300,000
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
the term “training” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of the Project,  including, 
inter alia
,
workshops, seminars, conferences, study tours, foreign and local travel costs and 
per 
diem
 of trainees, course fees, rental of facilities, and training materials; and 
 
(d) 
the term “operating costs” means the non-consultant expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the daily operation of the PIU, maintenance 
of equipment and vehicles, rental of office facilities, office utilities, supplies and 
materials, and domestic travel and per diem of PIU staff, which expenditures would not 
have been incurred absent the Project. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $400,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures within one year before the date of this 
Agreement but after May 8, 2003.  
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for “training” and “operating costs” , 
plus items not subject to prior review under Schedule 4, Section I, Part D.2, and Schedule 
4, Section II, Part D.2, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to provide technical assistance to the Borrower to: 
(a) reinforce its transmission network and restore the financial sustainability of the power 
sector; (b) strengthen its power sector institutions in charge of consumer protection, 
policy-making and portfolio management; (c) increase the supply of affordable energy to 
the poor; and (d) reduce potential negative environmental impacts. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Regulation and Consumer Protection
Improving the B
orrower’s regulatory and consumer protection performance, 
through: 
 
1. 
provision of technical assistance to carry out a comprehensive 
assessment of SIE’s role and capabilities, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) areas within SIE’s 
responsibility; (b) SIE’s dealings with third parties; (c) SIE’s internal procedures for 
preparing and issuing regulations; (d) SIE’s role regarding policy and its interaction with 
CNE; (e) SIE’s design and implementation of a tariffs plan; (f) SIE’s regulations related 
to dispatch procedures, billing procedures and wholesale market operations; (g) SIE’s 
standards for service quality, metering and billing; and (h) SIE’s staffing and training 
needs; 
 
2. 
provision of technical assistance and training (including study tours) to 
SIE and OC’s staff, in the areas of regulation, wholesale power market administration, 
and power dispatch; 
 
3. 
carrying out of technical studies for SIE and OC, including studies on the 
charge for ancillary services and managing congestion in the transmission network; 
 
4. 
provision of technical assistance to PROTECOM’s staff in the areas of: 
(a) consumer protection procedures;  (b) customer service requirements; (c) monitoring 
service and supply quality; and (d) monitoring billing accuracy and timeliness; 
 
5. 
provision of technical assistance to design a new legal appeal mechanism 
for SIE’s regulatory decisions; and 
 
6. 
provision of technical assistance to assess the power sector market 
performance and suggest changes. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
Part B:
Policy Formulation
1. 
Strengthening institutional capacity of CNE and FONPER, aimed at 
improving policy formulation and portfolio management of the power sector, through: 
 
(a) 
provision of technical assistance and equipment (as necessary) to: (i) 
carry out a CNE policy analysis, including, 
inter alia
,
an extensive assessment of the 
Borrower’s energy strategy, and specific technical studies to support the formulation of 
energy policy in the area of energy planning; (ii) use simulation and planning software; 
and (iii) provide hands-on assistance and on-the-job training by experts; 
 
(b) 
provision of technical assistance and equipment (as necessary) to 
strengthen CNE’s capacity to collect, analyze and disseminate  information to the public, 
including, 
inter alia
:
(i) determining functional requirements of an energy information 
system; (ii) establishing technical requirements and specifications for equipment; (iii) 
purchasing and installation of equipment; and (iv) disseminating information through 
publications and a web page; 
 
(c) 
provision of technical assistance and training to CNE’s staff in power 
sector planning and demand forecasting, including training for information system use, 
management, operation and maintenance; 
 
(d) 
carrying out of an independent assessment of PAEF’s performance, 
including issuing recommendations for any necessary improvements; and 
 
(e) 
provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen FONPER’s 
capacity, including: (i) carrying out of  a study to evaluate the performance of the 
Borrower’s portfolio in power generation and distribution companies where it has an 
interest as investor; (ii) design and implementation of a staff training program; and (iii) 
carrying out of  a periodic review of business strategy and results. 
 
2. 
Supporting consensus building on power sector reforms through: 
 
(a) 
provision of technical assistance and training (including the carrying out 
of workshops and seminars) to carry out an assessment of various options for sector 
reform; 
 
(b) 
provision of technical assistance to carry out an assessment of the 
potential scenarios for sector sustainability; 
 
(c) 
design and implementation of a public dissemination campaign to inform 
sector related issues and reform options; and 
 
Page  17
-
16 - 
(d) 
carrying out of consultations with key stake holders and focus groups, 
including interviews with civil society representatives and the private sector.  
 
Part C:
Transmission and Power Market Development
Improving the performance of critical power sector companies and supporting the 
finalization of the second-generation reforms started by the Borrower in the power sector, 
including, 
inter alia
:
1. 
provision of technical assistance to create a business plan for ETED and 
EGEHID; 
 
2. 
design and implementation of training programs for ETED staff 
regarding specialized techniques for operations and maintenance; 
 
3. 
provision of technical assistance to identify alternatives for private sector 
participation in transmission, within the boundaries established by the General Electricity 
Law; and  
 
4. 
design of a comprehensive transmission expansion plan and an execution 
strategy, including: (a) a comprehensive billing metering system; (b) an evaluation of the 
effect of an extensive installation of static capacitors on the distribution system; and (c) 
the provision of technical assistance to review the methodology used for establishing 
transmission charges.  
 
Part D:
Electricity for the Poor
Improving the delivery of electricity in poor urban neighborhoods, and increasing 
the coverage of electricity in rural areas, including,
 inter alia
:
1. 
provision of technical assistance and training to PRA’s staff to: (a) 
analyze and improve the Borrower’s blackout reduction program, including the design 
and implementation of a system for continuous monitoring of PRA effectiveness; and (b) 
redesign PRA, including: (i) surveys and studies to redesign  PRA in line with the 
Borrower’s objectives; and (ii) a blueprint of the new PRA; 
 
2. 
provision of technical assistance to support CDEEE’s rural electrification 
program, including: (a) carrying out of sustainability studies; (b) design of a rural 
electrification program; and (c) assess  innovative approaches and technology; and 
 
3. 
carrying out of a social impact assessment to: (a) enhance the targeting 
and the reach of electricity to the urban and rural poorest population; (b) strengthen 
institutional mechanisms for consumer protection; and (c) minimize the fraud problem in 
the power sector. 
 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
Part E:
Environmental Protection
Protecting the environment by analyzing and addressing the power sector’s  
environmental issues, including, 
inter alia
:
1. 
carrying out an environmental evaluation to: (a) provide a complete  
environmental diagnosis; (b) identify appropriate power project sites; (c) recommend 
procedures for developing environmental standards for different types of power projects, 
including thermal plants, hydro plants, wind power plants, transmission lines, distribution 
lines and transformers; and (d) design and implement an environmental action plan to 
mitigate potential negative impacts; 
 
2. 
carrying out of environmental impact assessments and impact studies for: 
(a) thermal generators regarding allowable levels of emissions, sound levels, and 
residues; (b) hydro plants regarding water quality controls and watershed conditions; (c) 
transmission projects, including archaeological and cultural constraints; and (d) power 
distribution companies, including lines, substations and transformers with emphasis on 
PCB disposal; 
 
3. 
provision of technical assistance to: (a) monitor compliance with 
environmental norms; and (b) design incentive systems  to encourage environmental 
compliance and avoid penalties for infringement; and 
 
4. 
provision of technical assistance for: (i) the establishment of an 
environmental unit within CNE; and (ii) training to CNE’s staff on policy formulation 
regarding environmental issues. 
 
Part F:
Project Coordination
Strengthening the institutional, administrative, financial, procurement, and 
technical capabilities of the PIU to carry out its obligations under the Project (through the 
provision of technical assistance and training). 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2009  
 
through April 15, 2020 
4.17% 
 
On October 15, 2020 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Page  20
-
19 - 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  21
-
20 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract procured in accordance with Part B above, 
as well as the first two contracts procured in accordance with Part C.1 above, and the first 
contract procured in accordance with Part C.2 above, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C.2 above,  the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services such as development of power sector regulation and energy policy 
issues and option studies rendered by consulting firms may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services such as design and implementation of information systems rendered by 
consulting firms, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
Services such as accounting audits rendered by consulting firms, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services such as advice on legal and regulatory issues rendered by consulting 
firms, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines up to an aggregate amount of 
$3,000,000, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  25
-
24 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $600,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $300,000 until the 
Bank has determined, based on the level and frequency of the withdrawals, that a higher 
amount is necessary. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Page  26
-
25 - 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Page  27
-
26 - 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
