                                                Document of
                                            The World Bank
                                     FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                                                       ReportNo: 26186




                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                    ONA

                                            PROPOSEDLOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.30 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                        DOMINICANREPUBLIC

                                                   FORA

                        POWER SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                              January 7,2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean CountryManagement Unit
Latin America andthe Caribbean Region

This document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipientsonly in the performance oftheir
officialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 15,2003)

                            Currency Unit     =  Dominican Peso (DMP)
                                   US$l.OO = 45DMP


                                  January 1 -- December 31
                                      FISCAL YEAR


                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDE      CorporacidnDominicana deElectricidad (Dominican Electricity Corporation)
CDEEE    Corporacidn Dominicana de EmpresasElkctricas Estatales (Dominican Corporation of State
         Electric Companies)
CNE      Comisidn Nacional de Energia (National Energy Commission)
CRI      Cash Recovery Index
Disco    Distribution Company
EGEHD    Empresa de Generacidn HidroelkctricaDominicana (Dominican Hydroelectric Generation
         Company)
ETED     Empresa de Transmisidndel Estado Dominican0 (Dominican State Electric Transmission
         Company)
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment
FTZ      Free Trade Zones
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GenCo    Generation Company
IPPS     Independent Power Producers
MF       SecretariadeFinanzas (Ministry of Finance)
M I T    Secretaria de Industria y Comercio (Ministry of Industryand Trade)
oc       Organism0 Coordinador del SistemaElkctrico Interconectado de la Repliblica Dominicana
         (Coordinating Body of the Interconnected System)
PAEF     Programa Nacional de Apoyo a la Eliminacidn del Fraude Eltctrico (Anti-Fraud Program)
PRA      Programa Nacional de Reduccidn deApagones (Blackout ReductionProgram)
PNER     Programa Nacional de ElectriJcacidn Rural (Rural Electrification Program)
PPAs     Power PurchaseAgreements
PROTECOM OJicina deProteccidn a1 Consumidor deEnergia Elkctrica (Office of Consumer Protection of the
         Power Sector)
SIE      Superintendencia de Electricidad (Superintendence ofElectricity)
T A      Technical Assistance
VAD      ValorAgregado deDistribucidn (Distribution markup)
WTO      World Trade Organization



                           Vice President:        David de Ferranti
                        CountryDirector:          Caroline D.Anstey
                          Sector Director:        Danny Leipziger
                         Sector Manager:            Susan G. Goldmark
                           Sector Leader:           Jyoti Shukla
                      Task Team Leader:           Jayme Port0 Carreiro

                                                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                               DOMINICANREPUBLIC
                             POWER SECTORTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                                      CONTENTS




        A. Project Deveiopment Objective                                                              Page

           1. Project development objective                                                             2
           2. Key performance indicators                                                                3

        B. Strategic Context

           1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project            6
           2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                                8
           3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project and strategic choices                         28

        C. Project Description Summary

           1. Project components                                                                       29
           2. Key policy andinstitutional r e f o m supported by the project                           30
           3. Benefits and target population                                                           30
           4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                            31

        D.Project Rationale

           1. Project altematives considered andreasonsfor rejection                                   33
           2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies            34
           3. Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design                                         35
           4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                         35
           5. Value added of Bank support inthis project                                               36

        E. SummaIy Project Analysis

           1. Economic                                                                                  36
           2. Financial                                                                                 36
           3. Technical                                                                       .>4.      36
           4. Institutional                                                                             37
           5. Environmental                                                                             37
           6. Social                                                                                    38
           7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                         39

        F. Sustainability and Risks

           1. Sustainability                                                                            39



This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

  2. Critical risks                                                                      40
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      41


G. Main Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             41
  2. Other                                                                               41

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           42

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             42



Annexes

Annex 1: Project DesignSummary                                                           43
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                     47
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         52
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           54
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    55
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    56
          (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements                            65
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     70
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    71
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  72
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            74

                                                   DOMINICANREPUBLIC
                                           Power Sector Technical Assistance Project
                                             ProjectAppraisal Document
                                             LatinAmerica and CaribbeanRegion
                                                          LCSFE

Date: January 7,2004                                           Team Leader: Jayme Port0 Carreiro
Sector Director: Danny M.Leipziger                             Sector(s): Power (go%), General energy sector (20%)
Country Director: Caroline D. Anstey                           Theme@): Infrastructure services for private sector
Project ID: PO82715                                            development (P), Regulation and competition policy (S)
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL,)


 [XI Loan                [ ] Credit   [ ]Grant      [ ] Guarantee        [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 7.30
Borrower Rationalefor Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:[XI Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                     Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%                                       Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                                                            Paymentfor FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds

Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Auto. Rate Fixingby period 6 months
Type of repayment schedule:
 [XI Fixed at Commitment,with the following repayment method (choose one): level
 [ ] Linked to Disbursement
                                                                                             reign                tal
BORROWER                                                                       3.70    I        0.00    I         3.70
IBRD                                                                           0.00             7.30              7.30
Total:                                                                         3.70             7.30             11.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICANREPUBLIC
Responsible agency: NATIONAL ENERGY COMMISSION(CNE)
Address: Gustavo Mejia Ricart Esq. Agustin Lara, Edif. de la CREP, 3er Piso, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
Contact Person: Ing.Antonio Almonte
Tel: (809) 547-3044                      Fax: (809) 547-2073                 Email: aalmonte@cne.gov.do
Estimated Disbursements( Bank FYlUS$m):



Cumulative             I 0.30  I   1.60 I    3.201      4.80  I     6.30   1-    7.30                              -
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectivenessdate: 04/01/2004 Expected closing date: 06/30/2009
cs PAD rem Re"M a w KO0

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposedPower Sector Technical Assistance (TA) Project will have several specific
 objectives and i s designed to provide expert assistance to help:

           Strengthen the Government's regulatory and consumer protection performance,
          byreviewingandcorrecting problems withthe regulatory system andthe institutional
           structure, and strengthening the Electricity Superintendency (SIE) and the Consumer
           Protection Office (PROTECOM);
           Improve policy formulation and implementationby: (i)          promoting a national
           dialogue to achieve a consensuson requiredreforms and the participation o fthe private
           sector; (ii)strengthening the National Energy Commission (CNE); (iii) public
                                                                                    fimding
           consultation processes; and (iv) improving the management o f Government interests as
           shareholder inpower sector enterprises through the Fondo Patrimonial (FONPER);

           Design the transmission grid and the wholesale power market, to improve system
          reliability and increase competition inthe wholesale power market;

           Increase the quantity and quality of electricity for the poor, through rural
           electrification programs andby improving the Blackout ReductionProgram (Programa
          Nacional de Reduccidn deApagones, PRA) inurbanbarrios; and

           Protect the environment, by analyzing and addressing sectoral environmental issues.

This proposed five-year Power Sector Technical Assistance Project is an element o fan overall
assistance package to the Dominican Republic power sector outlined inthe accompanying CAS
Progress Report. Under the base case scenario, this will also include financing for emergency fuel
imports inthe Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan, and inthe highcase scenario, a follow-up
Power Sector Reform Programmatic Loan.

The project seeks to assist the power sector overcome major difficulties which have built up since
an extensive but incomplete reform process culminated in 1999 with the privatization o fmost
generation anddistribution assets. As a result o fmultipleinstitutional and operational flaws, the
sector is facing the possibility o f extensive blackouts and a collapse inservicing its load. A
detailed description o f the sector's background and the events which ledto the current situation i s
provided further ahead (see 2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy).

The long-term objectives o f the total program assistance package are to support the Government
inrealizingits original vision andcompletingthe second-generation reforms inthe electricity
sector. Specifically, these objectives are to:

     0    Improve the quality o f service, especially by ending the persistent black-outs o f recent
          years;

          Increase the percentage o fpopulation with access to electricity;


                                                   - 2 -

        Raise the efficiency of power sector operations;

        Attract new investors inpower distribution; and

        Ensure that the operating entities inthe sector have the opportunity to achieve financial
    sustainability.


2. Key performanceindicators: (see Annex 1)




                                              - 3 -

outputs:                                            Indicators:
1. Regulation and Consumer Protection              SIE (includinp PROTECOM) becomes a well-
                                                   revarded. autonomous remlatorv agencv

  Review of the Electricity Superintendency (SIE)  Recommendations o f review widely accepted
  0   Responsibilities
  0   Procedures
      Interaction with CNE
      Tariff function
  0   Service standards

  SIE staff development                             Improved caliber o f SIE staff
      Staff training
  0   Study tours

  Advisory services to SIE                          Improved SIE performance

  SIE technical studies                             Acceptance o f studies' recommendations

  Procedures o f the Consumer Protection Office     Wider consumer use o f PROTECOM
  (PROTECOM)
      Consumer complaints
  0   Monitoring

  Examination of alternative appeal mechanisms      New mechanism approved

2. Policv Formulation                               Sector Dolicies are coherent and imdemented

  Support for consensus-building on power sector
  reforms


    0   Workshops & Seminars.                       Greater public awareness o f sector issues
    0   Meeting with key stakeholder focus groups
    0   Publications, radio, television
        In-depthinterviewswith key civil society
        representatives and the private sector

  Support for the National Energy Commission        CNE becomes effective policy-setting institution
  (CNE):
      Policy analysis
  0   Information system
  0   Staff training
  Assessment o f the Anti-Fraud Program (PAEF)      Increasing cash recovery index

  Support for the Patrimonial Fund(FONPER):
      Interacting with private sector partners      Smooth relations with private sector partners
      Long-term strategy to reduce Government       Sale o f Government shares
      shareholdings




                                                 - 4 -

  outputs:                                            Indicators:
  3. Transmission and Power Market DeveloDment        Blackouts. svstem collaDses, and sector costs
~~




                                                      are reduced
    Support for Dominican Transmission Company        Transmission investment
    (ETED):
        Business plan
        Expansion plan
        Staff training
    Business plan for the Dominican Hydroelectric     Business plan produced
    Generation Company (EGEHID)

    Alternatives for private sector participation     Private investment intransmission
    Transmission tariff review                        Adequate tariff mechanism established

  4. Electricitv for the Poor                         SUDD~Vaualitv inthe barrios and rural
                                                      coverape are both imDroved

    Redesign of the Blackout Reduction Program        More legal connections;
    (PR-4)                                            Rehabilitated networks;
                                                      More efficient use o f electricity in PRA
                                                      neighborhoods.

    Support for the Dominican Corporation of State    Improved coverage ratio;
    Electric Companies (CDEEE):                        reduced energy costs.
        Rural electrification studies
        Rural electrification pilot projects

    Social impact assessment                          Recommendations accepted and implemented

  5. EnvironmentalProtection                          Reduction o f environmental damage due to
                                                      power sector

    Preliminary environmental assessment              Consulting/ advisory reports

    Strategic sector environmental assessment         Issues identified

    Environmental strategy

    Environmental guidelines                          Less pollution from power sector




                                                   - 5 -

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-119        Date of latest CAS discussion: July 6, 1999


The CAS and the Electricity Sector

The proposedoperation i s an important part o f the CAS discussed by the Board on July 6, 1999,
and o f the Progress Report for FY04-05 being presented alongside this operation. The 10-year
framework for poverty reduction and sustainable development outlined inthe 1999 CAS
considers a four-pronged strategy: (i)  sustaining economic growth, (ii)   increasing the access o f the
poor to the benefits o f growth, (iii)
                                     modernizingthe state, and (iv) implementingenvironmental
policies for sustainable development. The base case lendingscenario included a U S 110million
Power Market Development Project inFYOO, but with the timing o fthe loan contingent upon the
adoption o f an adequate legal and regulatory framework. The Electricity Law, which promotes
private participation and open competition, was finally passedinJuly 2001,and its supporting
regulations were approved by decree inJuly 2002.

Since then, the Government andthe World Bank have been incontinued discussions on Bank
support for a comprehensive power sector reform program, but these discussions didnot come to
fruition as the Government was not able to demonstrate a plan for the clearance o f existing
financial arrears inthe sector and due to the intervention o f events such as the banking crisis o f
mid-2003 and the repurchasing o f the electricity distribution companies inSeptember 2003. In
the meantime, the financial situation inthe electricity sector has once again deteriorated as
deep-seated problems o f cost recovery andlow collections were exacerbated by the country's
economic crisis. The rapid depreciation o f the exchange rate increased generation costs (inDR$),
and there was a resultant fiscal impact as the Government reintroduced subsidies inthe electricity
sector andrepurchased two o f the three distribution companies. The 2004 CAS Progress Report
(PR) beingpresented alongside this operation acknowledges the immediate crisis inthe electricity
sector with widespread blackouts andunsustainable fiscal costs. The CAS PR also recognizes
that any meaningful mediumterm reform would require a national dialogue leading to a national
pact on the difficult actions to be taken inboththe short and mediumterms. As a result, this TA
operationi s beingpresented to the Board at this time to provide technical assistance for initiating
this national dialogue. Inthe base case scenario, the Bank will support emergency liquidityneeds
for purchase o f fuel for generation through the Social Crisis ResponseAdjustment Loan, being
presented together with this operation. Inthe highcase scenario outlined inthe CAS PRYthe
Bank would also provide programmatic support for the medium term electricity sector reform,
after there has beenprogress on a broader national dialogue andpact.

Economic Linkages

A well-hctioning energy sector is apreconditionfor economic growth. The electricity sector's
rapid growth contributed to the economy's 5.9 percent annual growth rate through the 1990s.
Between 1992 and 2001, total demand for electricity increased at an annual rate o f 7.5 percent


                                                  - 6 -

compared to a GDP rate o f growth o f 5.9 percent. This increased demand, together with the
opening o fthe power sector to private investment, attracted some US$l billion indirect foreign
investment. Infact, the power sector alone has accounted for 23.3 percent o f all foreign direct
investment (FDI) since 1995, reaching 40 percent in2001. This flow o f foreign investment has
been an important source o f financing the current account deficit. In 1999, the flow o f foreign
resources to the sector was 1.47 times the current account deficit. This investment i s expected to
resume, after the current crisis, as power companies expandandtransform their current fuel
sources from fuel oil and diesel oil to coal andnatural gas.

However, the contribution o f these large foreign investments to growth andpoverty reduction has
been limited by continuing problems inthe sector. Interms o f economic growth, the costs have
been quantity rationing throughrecurrent blackouts, large voltage fluctuations that damage
electrical machinery, and-until the depreciation o fthe Dominican peso - extremely highprices
for businesses (at US$0.14/kWhy the average electricity price inthe Dominican Republic was one
of the highestinthe region). These problems limit economic growthinthree ways. First, they
deter bothdomestic and intemational investment, especially insectors that use electricity
intensively. Surveys consistently indicate that the problemsof the electricity sector are a major
constraint to investment. For example, three-quarters o f respondents to the 2002 Foreign
Investment Advisory Services (FIAS) survey on investment environment considered electricity to
be a key factor discouraging investment inthe Dominican Republic. Second, they force
households and firms to incur additional costs insettingup altemative sources o f electricity.
About 50 percent o f all businesses are estimated to have a back-up generator, while some larger
firms even buildtheir own power plants. Andthird, they have a large negative impact on the
overall fiscal deficit. The generalized subsidyto all electricity consumersreached 1.2 percent of
GDP in2002-half       the country's budgeted amount for basic education, and the more
poverty-focused subsidy through the Blackout ReductionProgram, PRA) is about US$60 million
per year (0.3 percent o f GDP). About 400,000 households are coveredby the PRA program.

Poverty, Social and Environmental Linkages

The problems inthe electricity sector also hurtthe poor andthe environment. The 2001 Poverty
Assessment shows that poverty i s strongly correlated with the absence o f access to electricity. Of
the estimated 235,000 non-electrified households (12 percent o f the population), almost all are
rural poor. Lack of access to electricity prevents families from usingtheir homes productively for
income generation, and forces them to rely on gas (propane andkerosene) lighting.And even
when they have access to electricity, poor neighborhoods are particularly affectedby power
outages. Essential social services such as night schools, which are attended by poorer groups, and
medical services, are disrupted. The lack o f illumination at night also increases the risk o f crime
and violence, especially for women and incongested urbanslums. Also, most small f m s ,
including those owned by the poor, cannot afford back-up generators, so any power outage
affects them severely. While illegal connections or the non-enforcement o fbill payments have
traditionally allowed poor consumers to have free electricity, the long blackoutshave limitedthis
access. The current Government strategy o f enforcingpayments while subsidizing electricity in
poor urbanneighborhoods through the PRA may increase the electricity payments ofthe poor. It
will also help ensure that electricity becomes more available, reliable andsustainable. And, over



                                                  - 7 -

time, as the second generation reforms take root and sector efficiency improves, electricity tariffs
should decline.

The sector's inefficiencies also harm the environment through the use o f obsolete, high-polluting
thermal generation technologies andby causing firms and even some households to use inefficient
back-up diesel generators.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
          Power Sector: Evolution, Prospects And Issues, And Government Strategy
                                       Evolution o f the Sector


The Reform Effort. For at least two decades the Government's integratedpower company
(CorporacidnDominicana de Electricidad, or CDE), failed to provide efficient and quality
electricity service. Power cuts, lasting up to 20 hours per day, persisted for many years during
the 1980s's. Inthe mid-1990s capacity shortages were addressedby entering into Power
Purchasing Agreements (PPAs) with Independent Power producers (IPPs), who signed contracts
to supply the CDE as a single buyer of energy. Some of the PPAs have been criticized for their
highprices for energy, andthe large embeddedcapacity payments.

In1999, the Governmentinvitednewprivateinvestment inthe sector byauctioning 50percent of
the shares inthe newly-formed generation anddistribution entities andgivingmanagement control
to the private sector - a process similar to the "capitalization" process inBolivia. Unfortunately,
this privatization was not grounded on a well-defined legal and regulatory framework. Inthe
absence o f an electricity law, agents' activities were regulated by the privatization contracts and
byexecutive decrees. Thoughthese instruments established the regulator andthe basic legal
framework, they lackedthe legal weight o f a law. Nor was the regulatory framework so defined
consistent or uniform, andthis was aggravated by the lack o f autonomy and institutional capability
ofthe regulator. An Electricity Law was finally passedinJuly 2001 and, its supporting
regulations approvedby decree one year later inJuly 2002. The new Law largely promotes
private participationand open competition, whilst limitingthe role of Government to establishing
policy andregulatingthe power sector. However, it does contain provisions that limit private
participation intransmission andhydroelectric production. The Law created the National Energy
Commission (CNE) incharge ofpolicy, the Electricity Superintendence (SIE) incharge o f sector
regulation, and the Coordinating Body (OC), responsible for dispatch andthe administration of
the wholesale market. Around the same time, the Government established the Blackout
ReductionProgram (PRA) for consumers inpoor barrios, inorder to extend their hours o f access
to electricity and encourage collections, while still maintainingheavy subsidization.

Although these reforms created a modern, competitive sector structure, serious problems
remained. For one thing, the IPPs andprivatizations hadpreceded the legal andregulatory
reforms, andthe contracts were not always fully consistent with the new legal framework. In
addition, the CNE and SIE didnot receive the expertise, budgetary resources and autonomy
necessary to carry out their responsibilities adequately. Most seriously, the sector remained
plaguedby problems that have now undermined its financial sustainability - a tradition o f illegal


                                                   - 8 -

connections and non-payment ofbills (less than 60% of all energy i s ever paidfor throughtariffs)
that the private distributors have been unable to overcome, subsidiesfor bothpoor andbetter off
consumers, unwillingness o f Government to allow tariffs to adjust fully to reflect changes infuel
prices and the exchange rate, and inadequate fiscal resources to cover the resultant gap between
costs and revenues.

The Crisis of2002. Withthe continued increase ofinternational fuel prices, the government
decidedto freeze tariffs at February 2000 levels. The difference between the regulated tariff
(which was indexed, among others, according to the price o f fuel) andthe actual tariff paid by
consumers was subsidized by the government; this became ineffect a generalized subsidy
(subsidio generalizado). With the continued increase infuel prices, the government's generalized
tariff subsidy strategy became unsustainable andexisting PPAs imposed an additional fiscal drain
on the central government. The government started to accumulate arrears with the generators.
The privatized distribution companies (Discos), unable to turn around the situation they inherited
from CDE, continued to show large losses (around 25 percent) andpoor collection ratios (around
80-85 percent) due to technical losses, theft andnon-payment of bills, and they beganto suspend
payment to the generators. Faced with non-payment by both CDE andthe distributors, the IPPs
inturndecidedto suspendproduction, leadingto ageneralized crisis inthe power sector. As a
result o f the unavailability of electricity supplies, the distribution companies began to cut power in
predominantlypoor neighborhoods where losses were the highest. In2002, this financial crisis o f
IPPs and Discos ledto power cuts lasting over 20 hours invast neighborhoods, especially the
poorest areas. On September 13, 2002, over 50 percent o f all circuits o f the principal distribution
companies were out o f service. Things came to a head inmid- September, 2002, andpublic riots
protestingthe highcost andpoor quality o f electricity claimed fifteen lives. Addressing the
problems inthe electricity sector became critical notjust for the linkage with productivity and
competitiveness, but also for social stability.

The 2002 reforms. The measuresannounced bythe GovernmentinSeptember 2002 included: (i)
the renegotiation o f IPP contracts with an agreement on the ensuing stranded costs and the
clearance o f outstanding arrears; (ii) the elimination ofthe generalized subsidy, whilst maintaining
focused subsidies for the poor; (iii) payment o f Government's electricity bills; (iv) government
                                       the
commitment to expanded efforts to fight electricity theft andpromotea public culture of paying
utilitybills; and (v) defenseo fconsumer interests. These measuresprovided a temporaryrespite
butthe sharp depreciation ofthe Dominican Peso in2003 ledto the deeper crisis currently
affecting the sector.

The Crisisof2003
Under Resolution 31 o f 2002, which set electricity prices for October 2002, together with a
methodology for updating them, tariffs were to be adjusted to follow variations in fuel costs as
given in "Platt's oilgram" for No. 6 Fuel Oil 3.0% Sulphur U.S. Gulf Coast Waterborne Price
Quotation, the DR$/US$ exchange rate, and the U S consumer price index. Untilearly 2003, these
parameters were fairly stable; the fuel price applicable to October billings was US$22,80/bbl, and
that for February 2003 was US$22.50/bbl. However, the fuel price applicable to March 2003 bills
jumped to US$29.73/bbl.



                                                    - 9 -

Inresponse, giventhepolitical sensitivityofelectricityprices, andinareplay ofits reactionto the
2000/2001 fuel price escalation, the Government, instead of reflecting this increase fblly in the
March tariff, maintained the February level for all residential customers' first block (0-3OOkWh)
and created a Stabilization Fund to cover the difference. The Fund, which became, in effect, a
record o f the Government's debt to the DisCos, was expected to decline eventually, when fuel oil
prices stabilized. Indeed, the fuel oil price parameter for May 2003 billings was already down to
the October 2002 level, and it declined further to US$21.16hbl by July.


Meanwhile, however, a second element intruded, as the banking crisis ledto macroeconomic
dislocations that increased the exchange rate from DR$20/US$ inJanuary 2003 to DR$26/US$ in
May and DR$35 by August. The Government usedthe Stabilization Fundto avoid the sudden
price hikethis wouldproduce. The tariff for users o f less than 300 k W m o n t hhas remained
frozen at February levels. InMay, the Governmentbegan monthly three per cent increases in
other tariff categories. This has limitedthe growth o f the Stabilization Fund, but has weakened the
linkbetweenthe actualtariffs andthe efficiency tariffs calculatedby SIE.


The Discos supported these measuresbecause sharp increases inprices, especially to the poor,
would have hurt their collection rates, andthe Governmentwas obligated to reimburse them from
the Fundthe difference between the efficiency price and the actual price. Nevertheless, the Discos
have beenbadly hurt financially. First, even under the efficiency-price formula, there i s a
two-month lagbefore changes inan underlying parameter are to be reflected inthe tariffs; for
example, the prices to be applied to October bills, which correspond to September consumption,
are based on August parameters. This lag works against the Discos when prices are rising (in
DR$ terms), as they mustpay the GenCos the higher prices immediately. While the rises and falls
inoilprices mighttendto offset eachother, this hasnotbeenthe casewith the secular
depreciation o f the Dominicanpeso. Inaddition, the StabilizationFundhas inessence been a
forced loan from the Discos to the Government, and, to date, interest free. Finally, because the
Fundis denominated inDominicanpesos, the pesos's depreciation sharply reduced the value o f
the Fund(Le. fbture Government reimbursements) inUnited States dollars, e.g. by over 30
percent just between May and July 2003.


As a consequence, the "financial blackouts," which ledto the September 2002 crisis reappeared,
as the Discos stopped paying the GenCos, which inturndeclared themselves unable to finance
fuel purchases. As o f early August 2003, out o f 3,000MW installed, only 1,500MW were
available to supply a peak demand o f some 1,750MW. By October 2003, the energy suppliedwas
some 20 percent below the estimated demand, and likely to drop further because many of the
GenCos were reportedly runningout o f stockpiled fuel. There was an additional major setback in
September 2003, when Union Fenosa sold its controlling interest inEdenorte and Edesur to the
Government, which is now the sole owner o f some two-thirds o f the distribution business. The
power sector requires a large and urgent injection o fresources to recover its financial equilibrium.
Support for the Government to confront this crisis and to implement measures for a long-term
recovery is the essence o f the proposedBank program and this loan.




                                                 - 1 0 -

Lessons from the Dominican Republic's Experience


The DominicanRepublic made major progress inprivatization, expansion o f generatingcapacity,
legal reform, creation o f a functioning spot market and establishment o fbothan independent
regulatory agency and a policy-making commission. It attracted from abroad about US$l billion
for the power sector, inIPPs, privatization o f thermal generation and distribution and fhther
investment by the privatized firms. Potentially, this set the stage for the elimination o f shortages in
the very near term.


Nevertheless, the major crises of 2002 and2003, and the significant issues still facing the sector,
suggest that the reformprocess was far from optimal. Broadly consistent with the lessons from
other countries, the main shortcomings of the process were:


      Private sector participation, first through IPPs andthenthrough privatization, was
      encouraged before a proper legal andregulatory fkamework was established; leaving the
      Government to play "catch up," and contributing to a strained relationship betweenthe
      Government and the private companies;


      Strengthening o f the transmission network was not given adequate priority, contributingto
      blackouts andreducing the scope for competition;


      There was little broad constituency buildingfor the reforms, or stakeholder participationin
      the key decisions leaving the regulatory agency ina politically weak position andthe
      Governmentvulnerable to pressure to deviate from its tariffpolicy. Italso made it more
      difficult for the Discos to improve collections;


      Government agencies continued the practice o fnot payingtheir electricity bills, which set a
      poor example for other consumers; and


      Because o f a lack o f familiarity with the concept o f regulation, and perhaps also due to the
      reluctance of the Government to lose control over such important matters as tariff setting
      and quality standards, SIE was not provided with the authority, autonomy or prior policy
      guidance essential for goodregulation.


InOctober 2003, anInternationalPanelofExperts, was appointed to examine the issuesand
sustainability prospects o f the power sector. Its mainrecommendations were that,

      The average tariffbe increased rapidly from its current US$O.O9kWh to US$O.12kWhby
      February 2004, with subsequent increases o f three percent per month to the full cost
      recovery level o f US$O. 15kWh. To help achieve this, subsidies should be given only to
      households that consume less than 200kWmonth (the current subsidies are for the first


                                                  -11 -

  3OOkWmonth usedby all households).

  Inthe contextofthe Presidential Decreeto reviewthe Electricity Law, initial efforts should
  be concentrated on identifyingshortcomings ofthe existing legislation. The approach to
  restructuring ownership, the institutional set up and the regulatory system should be very
  cautious, because o f the large adjustment effort impliedandthe implications for the
  investment climate.

0 For the re-privatization o fthe two distribution companies, rigorous sales procedures, an
  independent asset valuation audit and a clear tariffpolicy are neededinadvance, to ensure
  transparency and competition. Inthe meanwhile, independent managements should be put
  incharge.

  Most importantly, there should be a broad dialogue on the sector, as proposed by the
  Government and others, leading to a "political pact." A public communication campaign
  emphasizing, inter alia, the linkagebetweenpayment o f electricity bills andthe quality o f
  service should accompany this dialogue.




                                            - 12-

                                   Sector Prospects and Issues


Sector Prospects and Issues

The following issues emerge from an examination ofthe power sector's evolution andproblems:

   0    Supply/demand balance: sector reforms led to increased generating capacity, which
        should be able to meet demand starting this year.

   0    Regulation i s a linchpin o f sector reform: addressing SIE's lack of authority and
        autonomy i s a highpriority.

   0    Transmission: new investments are urgently required to maintain service reliability and
        support the competitive wholesale market.

   0    Pricing: predictable, stable and financially sustainable tariffs are essential for the sector's
        recovery; the current subsidies are too broad and too high.

   0    Distribution losses and collection of bills: fixing the power system's "cash register" i s an
        essential step towards overcoming its current financial problems and assuring its
        sustainability.

   0    Supplying electricity to the urban poor: the main vehicle for this, the Blackout
        Reduction Program (PRA), needs to be redesignedto ensure its sustainability.

   0    Financial sustainability of sector enterprises: the financial future o f the entire sector i s
        strongly tied to the success o f the Discos inincreasing collections.

   0    Rural electrification: to meet its targets at a reasonable cost, the Government needs to
        design an efficient and equitable subsidy scheme.

   0    Environmental management o f power sector operations will be supported through
        technical assistance to CNE and SIE.

   0    Internalizing the lessons from recent events to initiate a new incorporation o f private
        investors indistribution.

SupplyDemand Balance
Despite the sector's problems, the reforms brought innew generation through IPP contracts and,
more recently, through merchant plants. The table below shows a dramatic 41 percent increase
(923MW) ineffective capacity, which measures actual load-carrying capability o f generation units
(installed capacity is around seven percent higher than effective capacity). A hrther 63MW are
expected to be added in2004.



                                                 - 13-

                                 Table 1:EffectiveCapacity inthe DominicanRepublic
                                         December 2000 andDecember 2003 (MW)




                      Source: Organismo Coordinador, "Programa de Operacion de Largo Plazo", November 2003
The new units are mostly efficient fuel oil poweredmotors and combined cycle turbines. Liquefied
Natural Gas (LNG) has also been introduced into the system to fuel combined cycle plants.
Together with improvedefficiencies, this i s expected to lower generation costs.

Because of supply constraints, until recently supplied demand was significantly below
unconstrained demand. The table below shows the evolution o f supply and demand in terms of
both peak power and total energy. The situation has improved considerably. Throughout the
1990s the reserve margin, i.e. the difference between effective capacity and peak demand, was
less than 15 percent (and probably lower given CDE's poor maintenance record); in 2000 it
increased to 27 percent, which provides a good cushion for plant maintenance and unscheduled
outages. In 2002, the estimated unsupplied energy was 11 percent o f total potential demand,
compared to 40 percent in 1991. However, the balance deteriorated in 2003: the energy deficit
increased to 13 percent, and the deficits for the months o f October-December 2003 are expected
to be as high as 18 percent o f estimated energy demand. With no capacity restrictions, the
shortfall has been due mainly to the unavailability o f power plants motivated by financial
constraints.

                                 Table 2: Power DemandEvolution 1990-2003




                    2003                2002                3201               12043             104501       1593




Demandprojections for 2004 indicate an expectedpeak o f around 2,115 MW. With effective
capacity projectedto be inexcess of 3200MW, it should be possible to supply the peak load, once
financial order i s restored. Under normal circumstances, the increased supply should leadto
reduced prices as well as fewer blackouts.




                                                         - 1 4 -

Regulation

Since its inception, SIE's independence has been compromised. Ithas also lackedthe technical
expertise necessary to do itsjob well. Establishing SIE's independence requires: (a) the
Government's acceptance o f SIE's role anda commitment to avoid meddling inregulatory
decisions; (b) SIE's gaining the regulated companies' respect through demonstrated technical
expertise; and (c) establishment of non-political channels for appealing SIE decisions. Inaddition
to staff training and skills upgrading, consideration should be given to appointing the three
regulators with a view to complementing their qualities interms o fpolitical andtechnical
know-how.

Inaddition, the SIEheadisthe chairman ofthe CoordinatingBody(OC) which isincharge ofthe
wholesale market, with the right both to tie-breaking votes and to veto any decision he considers
not inthe public interest. SIE should have a broad overview o f the functioning o fthe complete
sector, but not such a direct role inan operating agency it i s supposed to regulate.

Withthe Government's acquisitiono fEdenorte and Edesur, governance o fthe OC hasbeen
potentially compromised; Government-appointed representatives could hold a majority o f seats on
its board. Currently this i s not happening, as it was agreed that AES-Edeste would represent the
distribution companies. However, there are signs o fpolitical interference, such as the
appointment ofpersonnel who replaced executives who hadset up the organization andwere
performing satisfactorily.

Transmission
The weak transmission systemis a major source o f service quality concerns. The gridconsists o f
940km o f 138kV transmission lines, mostly single circuit, that radiate from Santo Domingo to the
North, East and West. The system is overloaded, but there have been only minor additions since
1999. Both East-West andNorth-South reinforcements are urgentlyrequiredto service load
reliably both inthe area o fthe capital and inthe Northern region. Delays will increase production
costs, particularly as the new power plants beinginstalled inthe Eastern region could remain
"bottled up" untiltransmission capacity increases. Transmission weaknesses have ledto frequent
countrywide blackouts4ight in2000, seven in2001, and three in2002 (which remains high).
The functioning o f a competitive wholesale market, one o fthe objectives ofthe reform, is severely
crippledby the inadequacy o ftransmission.
The problemsresult from both a lack o f resources (duepartly to having sacrificed transmission
income inthe PPA renegotiations) and a cumbersome resource mobilizationprocedure (which
requires loans to be approved by Congress). Mechanisms for mobilizing private sector resources
are needed, while respecting the public-ownership principle o f the Electricity Law. Lack o fproper
market rules, inparticular on how to manage congestion, have compounded the problem. It i s not
clear how plants should be dispatched (or re-dispatched) inthe presence of transmission
congestion, and how they shouldbe compensated financially for constrained operation.
Required short-term transmission investments total around US$95 million. Inthe longer term, a
345kV network will need to be superimposed, essentially along the axes o fthe current system. A
North-South 345kV line alone would cost some US$115 million.


                                                 - 15-

Pricing
Wholesale electricity prices are for transactions among GenCos, Discos andunregulated
consumers. Unregulated consumers (definedby law as over 2 MW peak load, decreasing to
0.2MW in2005) can contract their supplies at negotiatedprices. Untillate-2002, these
transactions hadnot developed due to recently-repealed regulations that haddiscouraged them.
Since then, around ten large customers have concluded supply arrangements with generators at
freely negotiatedprices.

Distribution Companies (Discos) may contract with generators for up to 80 percent o f their
projectedrequirements, andmustpurchase the remainder from generators inthe spot market. The
OC operates the spot market as a cost-based dispatch, with the spot price determinedby the
marginal dispatched unit.InAugust 2001,a price cap was applied to the spot price. Generators
with marginal costs below the cap are remuneratedat the cappedprice, while generators above
the capped price are paid at cost.

Average spot prices for 2002 ranged between 4.1USgVkWh inFebruary and 6.6US@kWh in
November, due to hydrologicalconditions andplant availability. A capacity charge remunerates
generators for firm supply at a rate o f around US$7/kW/month. Duringthe crisis o f 2003,
marginal costs have skyrocketed to an average o f 46US$/kWh inJuly, due to the unavailability o f
production facilities. Inthese cases, when demand can no longer be supplied, the marginal cost
reflects the cost o funsuppliedenergy, which i s very high.At this level, the Discos avoid any
purchases inthe spot market and opt for disconnecting customers.

Retail prices have had a complicatedhistory. InOctober 1998, the Ministry o f Industryand
Commerce established the tariff structure for the privatized Discos, basedon a well-thought-out
set of categories of voltage delivery levels.

          A two-block domestic tariff(0-300kWh andover 300kWmonth);

          A two-block general-purpose low voltage tariff;

     0    A binomial (i.e. energy and capacity) tariff for larger low voltage users;

     0    Two medium-voltage binomial tariffs; and

     0    Two time-of-day tariffs (low andmedium voltage).

Prices were initially determinedon the basis o fprevailing fuel prices, with an escalation formula
based onprojected energy costs o f each Disco. InApril 1999,the escalation formula was
modified inresponse to complaints o f regulatory lag, which hurt the Discos when actual costs
were above projections. But the new automatic monthly adjustment formula yieldedprice
increases that were considered excessive, andthe measure was annulled. InApril 2000 the SIE
established a tariff ceiling at nine percent above the basic tariffs at the time o fprivatization, with


                                                 - 16-

the difference betweenthe ceiling andthe indexedtariff to bepaidby the Government. This
implied a transfer o f resources from Governmentof some US$20 millionper month. The process
o f renegotiating prices on short notice and committing to unsustainable fiscal obligations reflected
a wavering commitment to regulatory rules.
Average retail prices thenremainedaround 1lUS#/kWh until October 2002, when the
Government eliminated the subsidy and raised retail tariffs to around 14USc/kWh, broken down
as follows:
                     Energycomponent:                   6.23 US#/kWh
                     Capacity component:                1.35 US#/kWh
                     Transmission component:            0.62 US#kWh
                    Distribution component (VAD): 5.87 USgYkWh
                    Total                               14.07 US#/kWh

As noted above, the crises o f 2003 ledto a number o f ad-hoc measures to address the dilemmas
posedby the need to raise tariffs inresponse to fuel price increases and the depreciationo f the
Dominican peso. Prices dropped as low as 9 US#/kWh,before price increases resumed.
Currently, the policy governing electricity prices can be summarized as follows:

          Efficiency prices continue to be calculated according to the regulatory rules established
          in 1998 andmodifiedinSeptember 2002 by SIERegulation31;


        - Prices
          Actual billingprices have evolved as follows:
                 for the 0-300 k W m o n t hblock o f the domestic andgeneral-purpose low voltage
          tariffs were frozen at February, 2003 levels.
        - Energyprices for all other categories were adjusted inan ad-hoc fashion to compensate
          partly for the imbalance createdby the above tariff freeze; since June 2003, these prices
        - have been risingby three percent per month.
          Starting inJanuary 2004, Government will freeze the price only for users o f up to 200
          k W m o n t h Households usingover 700 kWh/per month will have increases o f close to
          eight percent per month through June 2004, while those using 200-700 k W m o n t hwill
          face increases o f four percent per month for all o f 2004 (i.e. they will end up with the
          same total increase, but more gradually). There are similar policies for commercial and
          industrial consumers.

          The difference between the efficiency price andthe actual billingprice is charged to the
          Government; this debt (to the Discos) i s accounted for inthe Stabilization Fund. Initial
          debts incurredbythe Government inMarchandApril 2003 were relatively modest
          (US$4-5 million), as they mainly smoothed out the temporary increase infuel prices; in
          May and June the Government slightly reduced its accumulated debt. From July 2003,
          the full impact o fthe devaluation began to be felt, andby December 2003 the debt had
          reached some US$60 million. Evenwith the project increases, the Stabilization Fund
          will needto come up about an additional US$lOO millionincalendar year 2004.



                                                - 17-

     e     The Stabilization Fundlacks bylaws; inparticular, it does not generate interest for the
           Discos, who are bearingits financial cost; furthermore, as it is denominated inpesos, the
           subsidies o f March andApril 2003 have lost over thirty percent o ftheir value indollars,
           whereas the Discos' obligations are dollar-denominated to cover fuel costs of the
           GenCos.

The expected short-term evolution o f electricity prices and subsidies can be illustratedby the
following table:


                                    No. of         Average       Average
                                households       monthly bill  monthly bill

 Consumption class                   Per        per household       Per          %
                                consumption      in Dec 2003   household      Change
                                    class            RD$       in Dec 2004

 PRA                                  400,000             140       RD$140        0.0%
 0-200 kWh                            549,443             217           217       0.0%
 201-300 kWh                          222,828             706           737       4.4%
 301-700 kWh                          123,676           2,095        2,961       41.3%
 >700 kWh                              39,906           5,241        8,364       59.6%
 Total                              1,335,853

 Assumptions for PRA

 Population under the PRA           2,200,000
 Average household size                     5.5
 Average collection RD$/kWh                0.22
 Collection rate                          30%
 Average billing RD$/kWh                   0.73

Since the economic crisis, electricity tariffs have gone up significantly. Price increaseshave been
particularly large for non-residential consumers; lower-consumption households have been
shielded fkom the tariff increases to a large extent; higher-consumptionhouseholds continue,
however, to be subsidized significantly. For example, the SOOkWmonth average household
tariff is subsidized by aroundUS3$/kWh, equivalent to 21 percent of the unsubsidized rate. The
subsidyis addedto the StabilizationFund.

The Discos lack sufficient liquidity to finance the subsidy andhave therefore reacted by not
paying their energy suppliers; the latter have, inturn, refusedto generate. Supplies inthe near
future will improve only ifclear bylaws o f the Stabilization Fundare enacted that would obligate
Government to pay interest to the Discos and set a limit beyondwhich subsidies would be paid
directly to the Discos.

The subsidies adopted by the Government are understandable, as they are meant to soften the
impact on consumers ofmajor economic disruptions. However:

     0     They benefit too many consumers. At present, all domestic households (slightly over one


                                                 - 18-

           million, not counting the PRA) are subsidized, with the larger consumers gettingthe
           larger subsidy. A well-targeted subsidy would limit this benefit to poor customers (e.g.
           the 0.5 million consuming less than 150kWmonth). Assuming that at least the 168,000
           consumers above 300 kWh/month should not benefit, the monthly "waste" is US$2-3
           million.

           The subsidy is not designed to encourage efficient consumptionofpower. For example,
           PRA area households pay a flat fee.

Tariff regulations should also address the regulatory lag problem, andthe Governmenthas agreed
to do this. Energypurchase costs should, as far as possible, be a pass-through element from the
Discos' point o f view. While the Discos might absorb the financial cost o f short-term fluctuations
within reasonable limits,they should beprotected from major variations outside their control.

SIE has agreed to implementthe key InternationalPanel o f Experts'recommendations regarding
electricity pricing, as noted above. A "resoluci6n" along these lines i s expected to be issuedby
SIE shortly.

Distribution Losses and Collection of Bills
Distribution is the most dysfunctional element o f the country's power system. Poor service
quality, permanent customer dissatisfaction, andrelatively highprices have inducedtheft through
illegal connections inpoor areas, andnon-payment o f electricity bills by the rich and the poor. The
problem has beencompounded by the Discos' inability to cut off supplies for overdue bills
(because o f access limitations to premises), together with the impunitywith which customers
reconnect to the gridillegally. The result is somewhat facetiously known as "la cultura de no
pago."
The Discos' performance can be measured through the "Cash Recovery Index" (CRI), which
combines losses (the percentage of unbilledenergy due to physical and commercial reasons) with
the collection ratio (the percentage ofbills that get paid). A well-managedDisco should show
losses o f around 10 percent and a collection ratio o f over 98 percent, which yield a CRI o f 88
percent. At privatization in 1999, the Discos showed dismal CRIs, o f 40-50 percent. There was
substantial improvement, with CRIs reaching 62 percent (Edenorte) to 69 percent (Edesur), but
due to the recent crises the average rate has droppedback to 56 percent. Iftheir CRIs do not
improve further, the Discos will not be able to pay for their energy purchases even iftariffs are
adjusted.
Further improvements will require commercial, investment, legal and enforcement measures, as
well as close Government-Disco coordination. In2002, Edenorte and Edesur combined spent
US$42 million for meters andcommercial investments, andthey estimate that they need to spend
about the same in2003. Edeste estimates it would need around US$80 million to rehabilitate its
system. The financial debacle o f 2003 has impeded substantial investment from the Discos and,
consequently, significant improvements inthe CRI are unlikely to materialize soon.




                                                - 19-

A strong commitment from the Governmentis also necessary, interms ofpolice andjudicial
actions to enforce property laws. This i s beingaddressedby the joint Government/DisCo
Anti-Fraud Program (PAEF), headedby a military general, which supports Disco staff taking
action inpursuingelectricity fiaud. The Government also intendsto support Discos incutting off
power supplies for unpaidbills, including those corresponding to Government agencies.
SupplyingElectricity to the UrbanPoor
The Government subsidizes poor urban areas (barrios carenciados), which account for 10-12
percent o f total consumption, underthe Blackout ReductionProgram (Programa de Reducci6n
deApagones, PRA). The program works as follows:

        Consumers receive service during 20 hours per day; 75 percent of the cost is financed by
        the Government and 25 percent by the Disco;

        Organizedcommunity participation is encouraged, as a means o f facilitating and
        improving relations betweenthe Disco andthe residents, andthereby promoting
        collections. A user census i s conducted to ascertain installed loads;

        Users are issued with fixed monthly payment booklets depending on their load, andthey
        can make their payments at selected neighborhood stores;

        Revenues are split between CDE (48 percent) and the Disco (32 percent), with the
        remaining 20 percent for network repairs andimprovements within the community.
        However, the Government has decidedto use CDE's 48 percent for additional energy
        investments inthe same areas.

The program was created inmid2001, andwas scheduled to last for two years, although there is
a widespread expectation that it will be extended ifit i s perceived as movinginthe right direction.
The Government has budgeted US$5 million per month for its 75 percent share o f the cost, plus
the full cost o fproviding electricity for 12 hours per day inthe remaining barrios. As o f
December2002, the coverage was 65 percent ofthe total population ofthe barrios (although
only 67 o f the country's 238 barrios were included). The collection rate, which usedto be only
four percent, began to rise sharply only inthe final quarter o f 2002, and reached about 30 percent
intheparticipatingbarrios, before declininginthe crises of2003, Nevertheless, a closer look at
the program reveals inherent financial weaknesses, which compromise its sustainability and
require reform.

The PRA was successful inaddressing the social unrest causedby earlier blackouts by limiting
themto amaximumtolerable duration, andhas simultaneously implementedschemesrequiring
participant communities to pay for electricity. PRA customers do not enjoy 24-hour service, but
neither do they pay the full cost of supplyingthem. Both aspects should change inthe long run,
with the normalization o fcustomers, meter installation, andthe improvement o f distribution
networks. Subsidies for these customers will probably be neededpermanently, andtargeting them
correctly i s an important challenge to avoid wastingresources.




                                                 - 20 -

Although the PRA i s only two years old, it is runninginto difficulties:

        Itismade possible by subsidies from the hydroplants, butthis source o fh d s is quickly
        reaching its limit as more and more communities are incorporated into the program;

   0    Itprovides an easy way for the Discos to ignore a problemof large non-paying groups of
        consumers. Although the Discos do pay for 25 percent o f the energy consumed, they do
        not appear to be taking a very active part inpromoting network rehabilitation andmeter
        installation;

   0    The lack ofmetering continues to provide perverse incentives for energywaste; and

   0    The 18-hour power service has attracted migrationto PRA barrios.

Tackling these problems requires a thoroughredesign of the PRA, with a well-defined timetable
for turning over PRA customers to the responsible Disco. This would liberate resources for the
program to cover other communities. A study o f this topic would be financed under the TA
project.


Financial Sustainability of Sector Enterprises
InSeptember 2002, the Government endedthe unsustainable generalized subsidies that hadbeen
introducedto shield consumers from higher fuel prices. Although this helpedto align tariffs and
costs, because of subsequent events the gains were not sustained and the sector continues to face
serious financial difficulties. The principal findings o f the financial analysis are:

        The GenCos are only nominally inbetter financial shape than the rest o f the system: they
        are protected from fuel price variations by contracts that allow them to pass on cost
        increases to the Discos, andtheir contracts are denominated indollars. Some o f their
        output i s traded on the spot market, where it faces competition from IPPs and other
        producers, but this i s a problem associated with the normal course o fbusiness. But
        GenCos now face major difficulties becausethe Discos are unable to pay for their
        purchases. The option o frestricting output means incurringthe cost o f idle equipment,
        and is not sustainable for long periodsof time. The option o f incurring debts for fuel
        purchases also has a limit, as fuel supplies will be cut off eventually ifpayments are not
        made.

        The transmission company will be created as a regulated enterprise with guaranteed
        revenues to be paidby the GenCos and the Discos. Its regulated revenues are expected
        to cover its costs and it shouldbe sustainable inthe long runas long as its transmission
        charges are paid. But, as inthe case of the GenCos, the transmission company will depend
        on the Discos' financial health for its sustainability.

        The Discos face major difficulties, which have been dragging down the rest of the sector.
        Untilearly 2003, the Discos were confidentthat a turnaroundintheir financial indiceswas



                                                   -21 -

        at last within reach. However, the price freeze andthe sudden depreciation o f 2003 have
        hada severe impact on their finances. Although the Discos have a credit with the
        Government through the Stabilization Fund, they have not beenpaid, andthe Fundis
        expected to grow substantially duringthe last months o f 2003. As o f December 2003, it
        contained about US$60 million. Furthermore, the regulatory formula that adjusts tariffs
        has an implicit lag that does not fully reflect Discos' costs; this has generated losses o f
        over US$lOO millionby December 2003, for which the Discos were not due any
        payments from the StabilizationFund. The unpaid subsidy and the regulatory lag losses
        are equivalent to around 25 percent o f the Disco's yearly income. Consequently the
        DisCbs have been dragged into a liquidity crunchwhereby they have been unable to cover
        their operating costs, particularlythe payments for their electricity purchases, which are
        their main operating expense.

Inthe mediumterm, the breakevenCRIlevel (around 70percent) couldbereachedifthe Discos
recover financially (which will require addressing the Stabilization Fundissue) and canput in
place the necessary investments. Ifthe CRI improves to 75 to 80 percent, it should even be
possible to cut nominal tariffs by around 10 percent without imperilingthe Discos' finances. This
would also reverse the existingunfairness whereby law-abiding customers are payingfor others'
costs. Meanwhile, becausethe Discos operate as cash collectors for the entire system, their
inability to bill andcollect remains a critical problem.
Rural Electrification
The Dominican Republic has one of the highest rates o f electrification inthe region, at 80 percent
(excluding illegal connections), with a breakdown o f 90 percent for urban residents and 64
percent for rural areas. The estimated actual figure is 88 percent because o f the many illegal or
shared connections. Eveninthe rural areas, the vast majority o f consumers are connected to the
grid.To date, there hasbeenpoor coordination betweengridand off-grid efforts. For example, a
private supplier o f solar services had to remove some 1,500 systems as a result o f unannounced
gridextensions.

                      Table 4: DominicanRepublicElectrification:Ruralvs. Urban
                         UnservedPopulation (million)     ServedPopulation(million)
                                                          Served                 of which Subsidized
            Urhan        0.6                              5.1                    2.2
            Rural       I 1.2                             2.0                      oal
             Total      I 1.8                           II7.1                IIII2.2
           a/ The tariffs do not discriminate on the basis of location. While cost of service may be higher in rural
           areas, given the sunk costs represented by the existing grid, the extent of subsidy to rural consumers is
           relatively small.

A number o ffactors favor continuedrural electrification:

   0    The relatively small size o f the country and the substantial gridcoverage make it possible
        to reach much o fthe ruralpopulation throughconventional gridextension. About half of
        the unservedpopulationlives within 5 kmo f the grid.

        Adequate generation capacity i s being developed, andthe major supply bottleneck,


                                                          - 22 -

       transmission, must inany case be addressedfor reasons o f operational efficiency.

        The Dominican ruralpopulationhas demonstrated a highdemand for electrical service,
       with anaverage household consumption level of 140 kWmonth, even inthe face of
        tariffs averaging US$O.14kWh.

        Dueto private sector andNGO initiatives, the country has one o fthe mostactive markets
        inthe world for solar andother off-grid technologies. Some 12,000-15,000 families
        (60,000-75,000 people) have been electrifiedinthe past dozen years usingsolar energy.
        Most o fthis has been done without subsidies, by three private companies, andhas
       therefore reachedmainly the better-offrural households. NGOs, generally with grant
        financing from the UnitedStates or European governments, have provided subsidized
        service for schools andwater distribution.

        The country has good solar, hydrologic andwind energy potential (USAID had financed a
       windresource map.)

The Government's goal i s to increase the coverage inrural areas to 95 percent by 2015. CDE
launched the National Rural Electrification PlaninNovember 2001,andthe National Rural
Electric Cooperative Association (NRECA) o f the UnitedStates i s elaborating a detailed National
Rural ElectrificationPlan, with USAID financing. Phase Io fthe plan was made available for
public review inMay 2003. The study attempts to establishthe competitiveness frontiers of grid
versus off-grid (solar, wind andmini-hydro) electrification. Based onplausible tariff and
cost-of-service parameters, some 130,000 households (650,000 people) living within about five
kmo fexistinggrids canreceive new gridservice at a total investment cost o fUS$61million.
Phase Iwork has also initially identifiedabout 4,000 households (20,000 people) suitable for solar
home systems at comparable unit costs (US$500/household).

The central issue inrural electrification, both gridand off-grid, is the need for subsidization o fthe
investments, generally o f 40-60 percent, to make the schemes financially viable. This i s due to the
remoteness, low density, andlow capacity to pay rural populations. Inthe case of gridextensions,
the subsidywould be given to the Discos while for off-grid investments it mightbe givento the
households themselves, as they would own the facilities. The Discos' legal obligation i s only to
serve all interested consumers within 150 meters o fthe grid. Without such subsidies, there is little
hope that the Discos or other investors will contribute significantly to rural electrification.
However, a philosophy o fjudicious use o f subsidies to promote access (as opposed to
consumption) i s not yet embedded inthe policy-making institutions. And, while micro-finance to
end-users for purchase o f stand-alone systems i s generally available, small rural energy service
entrepreneurs face highmarket entry costs anddifficulties inaccessing neededbusiness
development andworking capital.

The Government has two approaches to subsidization. First, a Hydrocarbon levy o f two percent
on fossil fuel gross sales, enacted inJuly 2001,generates approximately US$lO milliodyear for
renewable energy and energy efficiency investments. (This is low compared to the US$6 million
per month spent on subsidies for urbanelectricity consumption.) These resources have not yet



                                                - 23 -

beendedicated to specific projects. Second, the sale o fhydroelectricity from CDE-owned stations
at discounted prices has beenoffered as a means to stimulate expansion o f service to rural areas,
but as there is no agreed-uponbasis for valuing the hydropower, the amount anddistribution o f
this subsidy wouldremainopaqueand subject to dispute.Inaddition, the fractionofthe
Government's current annual rural electrification investment that represents a subsidyremains
unclear, as it i s determined on a project-by-project basis innegotiationwith the concessionaires.

Basedupon the forthcomingNational Rural Electrification Plan, the Governmentneeds to
rationalize subsidy support across and betweengridextension andoff-grid development, and
allocate subsidies ina competitive, transparent manner.It shouldthen negotiate
performance-based rural electrificationtargets and indicators with distribution concessionaires
under agreed ex-ante levels o fsubsidization.

EnvironmentalManagement

Environmental protection inthe Dominican Republic has a relatively long history, datingback to
the early 1960s, whenthe first comprehensive forest conservation law was passedto protect the
nation's watersheds. The General Law on the EnvironmentandNatural Resources o f 2000
modemized the environmental legislation, and there i s a Cabinet-level Secretariat o f the
Environment incharge of developingpolicies. The Electricity Law established principles and
responsibilities for applying environmental norms inthe power sector. It gave responsibility to
CNE (on whose board the Secretary o fthe Environment sits) for policymaking inthis area, andto
SIE for enforcing environmental norms and determining penalties for their infringement.Because
CNE and SIE are financed automatically by the sector, they can count on relatively stable
resources to carrying out these functions.

BothCNE and SIE requiretechnical assistance to become familiar with environmental matters.
The proposed Technical Assistance Project would support:

        A strategic environmental evaluation by CNEto: (i) suitable locations for new
                                                               identify
        power generation; (ii) recommendprocedures for developing standards for different types
        o fpower facilities (thermal plants, hydro plants, transmission lines, distribution lines and
        transformers); and (iii) design an action plan;

        Environmental audits andimpact studies, by consultants hired by SIE, for thermal plants
        (allowable levels of emissions, gases and solids, sound levels, residues, andpossible social
        impacts), Hydro plants (water quality controls, watershed conditions andpossible social
        conflicts), transmission projects (including archaeological and cultural constraints) and
        distribution companies, (lines, substations and transformers, with emphasis on PCB
        disposal).

        Monitoring compliance by SIE, with environmentalnorms, and designing incentives to
        encourage compliance andpenalties for ihingement; and

        Training inenvironmental policymaking for CNE staff, and inmonitoring and enforcement


                                                  - 24 -

       for the environmentalunit to be created within SIE.

GovernmentStrategy


Governmentresponseto the crisis
InSeptember 2002, the Government took a set ofurgentmeasuresinresponse to the sector crisis
and resultant riots, andsucceededinimproving the situation substantially. But, one year later, it
was confronting a similar situation but under far worse economic conditions. The overall sector
strategy inthe crisis consists of urgentlyrestoring service andpreventinga worsening ofthe
blackouts stemming from an absence of financial liquidity,while ensuringthat these measuresare
consistent with what would needto be done over the longer term to address the structural
problems o fthe sector. To this end, the Government has designed a six-pronged approach:
       Work with the distributors, especially through continuationo f the anti-fraud PAEF
       program, toward reducing losses and increasing the collections rate; inparticular, it will
       seek to ensure that collections ratios remain at least at the same levels as before the
       purchase o f Union Fenosa's distribution companies;
       Modify the tariffregulations to reimburse distributorsfor the impact o f the two-month lag
       inthe applicationofthe indexed"efficiency tariff' (it takes two monthsto calculate and
       apply indexation o f exchange rate and fuel price changes to the distribution tariff, whereas
       the distributors have to pay the higher prices to the generators immediately);

       Continue the implementation ofthe PRA (Blackout Reduction Program) inthe poor
       barrios, and seek ways to make this program more efficient and financially sustainable;

       Reduce gradually the subsidization of the larger consumers, while continuingto protect
       consumers usingless than 200kWmonth;

       Transfer US$240 millionto the distribution companies, by paying them the subsidies due
       in2004, andbyprovidingthemwith fuel import coupons (to be accountedfor as loansor
       capital injections) inproportion to their respective electricity sales, with which they will
       pay generators, who inturnwill import the fuel needed to runtheir plants. Fuel coupons
       are to be used instead o f cash to ensure that the resources are used for the fuel purchases
       necessary to maintain and increase power generation duringthe current shortage; the
       Government has put the required US$240 million into its 2004 budget.

       Issue the operating rules for the Stabilization Fund(which was established inearly 2003 to
       smooth out the tariff changes resultingfrom abrupt fluctuations ininternational oil prices,
       buthas subsequentlyalso been usedto make more gradual the impact on tariffs from the
       depreciation o f the DR$).

Longer-TermGovernmentStrategy

Inputsto be used. For the longer term, especially to prevent the recurrence o f such crises, a
more comprehensive and profound review o f the sector i s required. The Government intends to


                                                - 25 -

beginnow the review process, utilizing inputsfrom:

   0     A broad sector dialogue within the country, which ithas already begun, with the goal of
         reaching a political pact" on the future o f the sector.

   0     Other Panelrecommendations, e.g. regardingprivate sector participation inthe power
         sector and reviewo f the electricity law;

   0     The analyses by the USAID-financed consultants, on urgent sector issues; and

   0     A preliminary power sector environmental assessment;

         Preliminary work towards articulationo f a policy on rural electrification;

         Studies andconsultancies under the proposed Power Sector Technical Assistance loan
         from the World Bank.

Upgrading the sector's institutional capacity. Creation of the SIE, CNE and OC was a
significant accomplishment o f the Electricity Law. Now that these institutions have been
functioning for about two years, the Government intendsto:

   0    Carry out a comprehensive, independent review o f SIE's role and capabilities. A strong,
        autonomous SIE i s critical to the operation o f the new sector model. While SIE has made
        significant progress, there are a number o f areas o f concern, including: (i) the tendency o f
        sector companies to try to bypass SIE and deal directly with political authorities on
        regulatory issues; (ii) the lack o fpublic understanding andsupport for SIE; (iii)   SIE's
        inability, to date, to establish incentives for auxiliary services; and(iv) excessive discretion
        granted to SIE in some areas (e.g. formulas to reflect general inflation or fuel price
        changes), and inadequate authority inothers (e.g. quality o f service inthe barrios).

        Strengthen CNE as a policy-making body. CNE exercises a role normally located ina
        Ministryof energy or its equivalent. Forthe Dominicanarrangement to work well, CNE
        should improve staffing, andthe relevant ministries need to support CNE's authority.

   0    Maintain the managerial strength o f the OC. The OC has beenthe best functioning ofthe
        new institutions, and, althoughmanagerial changes may be inevitable, the Government
        gives highpriority to ensuring that the OC retain capable leadership. The Government will
        also reexamine the appropriateness o fhavingthe head of SIE serve ex officio as the
        chairman of the OC.

Separating Government's different roles: CNE and SIE. The establishment o fboundaries
between these agencies requires the greatest attention:

        SIE must be recognizedas a fully functioningregulatory agency, andinterference
        with its independence should end. Sector players mustlearnto use the SIEprocesses.


                                                  - 26 -

        Recourse to the Office o f the President or other political agencies to change unpopular
        decisions mustbe discouraged, andthose agencies should stop beingreceptive to such
        appeals.

    0   CNE's "supervisory" role over SIE should be eliminated,therebystrengthening SIE's
        independence and freeing CNE's to function as a policy andplanning agency. The issues
        include CNE's authority to review SIE decisions, and CNE's superior rulemaking
        authority relative to SIE's authority to issue resolutions. SIE should derive rulemaking
        authority directly from the statute. The authority for appeal o f SIE decisions should be
        transferred from CNE to thejudicial system or to arbitration.

Separating the roles of the Government as shareholder and policymaker. Four years after
privatization, the Government's shares inthe sector remain inCDE. This creates a conflict o f
interest that does not benefit the sector. The proposed course o f action i s to:

        Transfer the Government's 49 percent share inthe five privatizedcompanies from CDE to
        FONPER. This would result inthe Government's treating these shares like an investment,
        rather than having the temptation to try to influence the companies for political reasons. In
        due course, the Government will seek ways to sell these shares, as a way o f broadening
        public ownership andreducing its own exposure inthis sector.

        EstablishETEDandEGEHIDas legally autonomous companies. Although the Electricity
        Law requires that these entities be kept inthe public sector, it permits them to become
        separate public companies, operated along commercial lines. This i s neededto improve
        theirmanagement, help ensure their financial sustainability (the Government has, infact,
        damaged this to some extent to achieve other sector goals, such as subsidized energy to
        the poor andrenegotiation ofthe PPAs), andpromote a levelplaying field for sector
        companies.

         After the financial sustainability of the distribution companies has been restored,
        re-introduce private capital and control into Edenorte and Edesur.

Extending and improving service to the rural and urban poor. While the overall electricity
coverage levels inthe Dominican Republic are reasonable for the region, the Government i s
committed to expanding coverage further, as part o f its anti-poverty strategy. However, given the
stringent fiscal constraints, this requires both improving efficiency and increasing collections from
the beneficiaries:

        The Government's previous rural electrification strategy, the PER, lacked good economic
        and financial criteria, and was for gridexpansion only. Phase 1o fthe National Rural
        Electrification Plan, has recently beenpublished. Based on the Phase 1report, the
        Government will articulate its rural electrification policy.

    0    The Blackout Reduction Program (PR4) for the urban barrios has hadreasonable
        success inextending the hours o f service, increasing the numbero f legal collections and



                                                  - 27 -

        hence the cash recovery index, anddeveloping local agencies. However, it gives some
        perverse incentives to both the Discos and the customers, andwill become increasingly
        fiscally unsustainable as it is expanded to the remaining barrios. Also, while it was
        intendedas only a two-year program, any abrupt termination could undo the benefits
        achieved. Accordingly, the Government will carry out a comprehensive review and
        redesign o f the PRA.

Strengtheningthe TransmissionNetwork.Transmission investment hasbeeninhibitedby
several factors, resulting ina network that i s increasingly liable to becoming overloaded, with
resultant blackouts the most visible and expensive outcome. Creating ETEDi s an important step
towards correcting the problem, but the Government intendsto consider several additional steps:

          Findingways to permit private investment intransmission, within the legal requirement
          that the network be owned by the public sector;
          Pressing the legislature to approve pending loans for transmission investment;
          Seeking to change the now anachronistic requirement that all loans for transmission
          investment be individually approved by the legislature; and

     0    Ensuringthat the transmission tariffs are adequate (for the financial sustainability o f
          ETED) andeconomically efficient (so as to encourage optimal use o fthe network).

Protectingthe Environment.The Government hascompleted apreliminary environmental
assessment for the power sector, to identify the areas for further attention. This will be followed
by a strategic environmental assessment, which looks inmore depthand for eachrelevant
investment, at all o f the important concerns. Based on that, new sector environmental guidelines
will be developed andpromulgated, consistent with local conditions.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project's focus will be on:

            The support requiredby the Government inachieving consensus on a policy for power
            sector reform;
            Institutionalweaknesses o f the key agencies, especially SIE and CNE, and, to a lesser
            extent, OC, PROTECOM and FONPER will be addressedthrough consultancy,
            training and studies for the relevant institutions;
            Transmission problems will be addressedthrough support for ETED, examination o f
            the prospects for private financing, development o f a transmission expansion plan, and
            review o f the transmission tariff methodology;

            Financial sustainability, the project's main contributions would be the assessments o f
            PAEF and PRA; and

            Environmental and social aspects will be addressedthrough environmental and social
            assessments, development o f environmental andrural electrification strategies and
            guidelines, and support for the establishment o f an environmental unit inCNE.


                                                  - 28 -

C. Project Description Summary
1. Projectcomponents (see Annex 2 for a detaileddescription andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):

The project's components, together with their cost and financing, are summarized inthe table
below. Detailed cost estimates are includedinAnnex 3.




 1.Regulationand consumer protection                                                   2.50
2. Policy formulation                                                                  1.oo        13.7
3, Transmission and power market development                                           0.90        12.3
4. Electricity for the poor                                                            0.80        11.0
5. Environmentalprotection                                     1.30                    0.90        12.3
6. Operating costs                                             0.50                    0.40         5.5
     Unallocated                                               0.73                    0.73        10.0
                                      Total Project Costs     10.93       99.4         7.23        99.0
                                            Front-end fee      0.07 I      0.6         0.07         1.o
                              Total Financing Required        11.00 I   100.0          7.30       100.0




                                               - 29 -

2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supportedby the project:
The project will provide technical assistance to help addressthe following key reforms:

Policy:
         Achievingconsensus onpower sector reform
         Review of the mechanism for appeal o f SIE regulatory decisions;
         Examinationo f alternatives for private sector financing of transmission investments;
         Review o ftransmission tariffs; and
         Sector environmental strategy andguidelines.

Institutional:
         Strengthening o f SIE, throughan independentreview, staff development, andconsultancy;


         Consultancy on PROTECOMprocedures;
         Broad support for CNE, inpolicy analysis, information systems and stafftraining;
         Support to CNE andCDE inidentifyingand incorporatingnew strategic investors in
         distribution;
         Assessment o f the performance o fthe PAEF (anti-fraud program);
         Development o f a strategy for FONPER to manage its power-sector portfolio;
         Establishment o fbusiness plans for ETEDand EGEHID, as well as staff training and
         expansion o f ETED;
         Reviewo fthe operation o fthe PRA (blackout reductionprogram) inthe barrios; and
         Studies andpilot projects to improve the rural electrification program.

3. Benefitsand target population:
Beneficiaries andbenefits o f the project include:

         Dominican consumers, who would benefit from more reliable power service (due to
         improvedregulation, greater financial sustainability of the Discos, a strengthened
        transmission network), an enhanced mechanism for making complaints (through
         PROTECOM), lower tariffs (resulting from efficiency gains inducedby better regulation
         and competition, and from reduced fraud), and improved environmentalconditions;
         Barrio residents, who will obtain improved service quality from expansion andreform o f
        the PRA; and
         Rural families, who will benefit from electrification programs that allow them to replace
         expensive sources o f energy, batteries, kerosene lamps, with electricity.


                                                  - 30 -

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
The TA would be implementedunderthe responsibility o fCNE. The Commissionwould create a
Project ImplementationUnit (PIU) to coordinate all technical and administrative aspects. The
PIUwould receive guidance from a Steering Committee representing SIE, CNE, CDEEE, and the
OC, andheadedby the Secretary o f Finance (or a designatedrepresentative). The Steering
Committee would also include an independentoutside member who, together with the Secretary
o f Finance, wouldprovide a wider vision o f sector requirements.

The PIUwould draft the overall guidelines for the Project, andwould approve, evaluate, monitor
andcontrol all phases o f implementation. Itwould

         Act as executive secretariat ofthe Project, and identify andresolve problems before they
         leadto delays inimplementation;
         Identifythe technical studies requiredandprepare the relevant TORs;
         Prepare the Project's Operational Manual and operation plan;
         Perform the financial management o fthe Project;
         Contract the required consultants and other services;
         Supervise and coordinate all work, including that o f consultants; and review all documents
         andreports produced;
         Follow up on the physical implementationandProject deadlines; and
         Provide support to independent external auditors.
All other PIUfunctions would be outsourced, as required, to consultants, attorneys, consulting
companies and accounting experts, who would be responsible for preparing TORs, andreviewing
contracts andreports.

The project manager will ensure that, early inproject start-up,there will be a Bank-sponsored
project launch, which will involve Bank specialists inprocurement, financial management, and
legal issues. Supervision missions will be undertaken at least twice a year. The supervision
missions will periodically include a financial management specialist and a procurement specialist.


Project supervision will be front-loaded and focus initially on ensuring that the PIU i s able to carry
out its responsibilities, and on definingthe terms o f reference for key studies and consultants, and
ensuringselection of qualified personnel. Thereafter, supervision would focus on indicators
related to oversight of effective inter-agency coordination andmarket performance signals.

Inadditionto regular supervision, anddistinct fromthe assessmentofthe project implementation
progress, the Bank wouldperiodically review with CNE the progress with the implementation o f
sector reforms.




                                                - 31 -

The tasks to be performed, bybeneficiary institutions, are:

  Superintendencia deElectricidad (SIE) (Component 1):strengtheningthe regulatory
  function i s critical for ensuring the success o f sector reforms; it will consist o f (a) an
  overall assessment o f SIE's role andcapabilities; (b) training for SIE staff; (c) consultancy
  to SIE; and (d) assistanceto PROTECOM, the consumer protection agency under SIE, in
  developing its procedures.
   Organism0 Coordinador (OC) (Component 1): OC i s responsible for determiningthe
  basic dispatch data andsettlingsystem accounts. Its critical role will be supportedby the
  TA project by: (a) financing studies requiredto improve market operations; (b) supporting
  the activity o f a Market Surveillance Group which will periodically report on the market's
  performance andwill suggest improvementswhere and whenrequired; and (c) financing
  training for OC staff at other market administration organizations inthe region.
  Comisidn Nacional deEnergia (CNE) (Component 2): CNE's responsibilitiesare to: (a)
  establish energy policy; (b) provide guidance to investors regardingthe developmento f
  energy facilities; and (c) serve as the data and information center for the sector. The TA
  project will support CNE by financing: (a) consultants to assist with the design and
  execution o f a multi-year plan for CNE development; (b) training for CNE staff, inareas
  such as demand forecasting andpower system planning; (c) an energy information system
  to support data gathering, analysis and storage; (d) the dissemination o f energy
  information through printed and electronic media; (e) examination o f alternative
  mechanisms for appeal o f SIE regulatory decisions; (0support for incorporating new
  investors indistribution companies; and(g) selected projects related to environmental and
  social issues andtheir impact on the energy sector. CNE i s expected to bear the
  responsibility for coordinatingthe sector dialogue recommended by the Panel o f Experts;
  the project will provide CNE with critical support for achieving this goal. Regarding the
  latter, CNE will coordinate support for the theft-control (PAEF) andblackout-reduction
  (PRA) programs by commissioning a social assessmento f electricity consumptionwith
  emphasis on poor populations. The assessmentwill develop a communications program
  and a strategy to engage the participation o f affectedcommunities innormalizing
  connections andpaying for electricity.
  Programa deApoyo a la Eliminacidn del Fraude Elkctrico (PAEF) (Component 2):
  PAEF supports Discos inreducing theft (throughillegal connections or tampering with
  meters) andrefusal to paybills, particularly among larger consumers; it is financially
  supported by the Discos. It i s still finding its way through pilot actions, andits
  performance to date needs to be assessed, to determine how to make it more effective. Its
  action will be guided by the social assessment o f electricity consumption, ifit were to
  extend its scope to combat fraud andillegal connections inpoor neighborhoods.

  Fondo Patrimonial (FONPER) (Component 2): TA supportwill include management
  consulting services to assure that FONPER performs effectively in safeguarding the
  interests o f the public sector inprivately-controlledpower companies.

  Empresa de Transmisidn del Estado Dominicano (ETED) (Component 3): ETEDwill be


                                            - 32 -

         supported by financing: (a) consulting services requiredto structure business and
         expansion plans; (b) training for ETED staff, for activities such as live line maintenance,
         and (c) studies for an adequate commercial operation o fthe transmission system, such as
         network and congestion charges.


         CDEEE (Component 4): support for rural electrification programs through consulting
         services to improve design and delivery o f services, and support for private sector
         participation inEdenorte/Edesur.
         Programs deReduccidn deApugones (PRA) (Component 4): TA support would review
         the incentives andperformance o f PRA, and seek to improve the delivery o f electricity to
         slum areasby financing surveys o f effectiveness as well as studies oriented towards
         identifyingactions to encourage payment ofbills andlegalizing connections. PRA
         improvements will be implementedtaking into account the findings o f the social
         assessmento f electricity consumptionto be conductedby CNE. The perception o f equity
         among the poor will be enhanced by the actions o f the PAEF program for controlling
         fraud among larger and wealthier consumers.


D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:

(i)      One alternative to the Project would consist o frelyingon the budgets o f different
institutions for strengthening their capabilities. There are several drawbacks to this approach:

         Training and institutional strengthening would be irregular and limited, as they would lack
         a unifiedapproach andit is often difficult for an agency to see clearly andbudget for its
         own institutional requirements.

         Accessing certain resources, particularly for internationalconsultants, would be a drawn
         out and difficult process under the usual Government procedures.

(ii) CouplingtheproposedTAloanwithapolicybasedoperationwouldhaveincreasedits
effectiveness. While this would have beenthe preferredoption, at this time it appears that the
policybased loanwill be postponed for a few months. It was decided to go ahead with the TA
loan to provide urgent support for buildingconsensus and financing technical work on sector
policy issues, pre-conditions for a policybased loan.

(iii)    The other alternative considered was to make this a bisector TA loan, together with
telecommunications. The logic was that many o fthe issues affecting electricity regulation apply
to telecommunications as well. This alternative was rejected because there i s a strong component
orientedtowards policy making andplanning which is specific to the energy sector.




                                                  - 33 -

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                          Latest Supervision
             Sector Issue                               Project                             (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                     (Bank-finance projects only)
                                                                                     Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                                         Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

Finance feasibility and environmental     Dominican Republic - Itabo
studies for HaindItabo coal terminal       Coal Terminal and Power
and technical assistance to power         23690 - closed June 30, 1986)
                                          Engineering Project (Loan No.
sector.

Improve operating efficiency o f CDE,     Dominican Republic - Power
buildinfrastructure inpower sector,        Sector Rehabilitation and
finance Technical Assistance ingeneral Distribution SIL (Loan Nos.
management, financial, planning,          24490 and 24493 - closed June
technical and administrative areas.        30, 1995)

The financial crisis inthe sector,         Social Crisis Response
especially the lack o f resources to pay  Adjustment Loan and Financial
for the import of fuel.                    Sector TA Loan (going to the
                                          Boardtogether with this
                                          project)


3ther development agencies
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), I-    1(Highly Unsatis




                                                    - 34 -

3. Lessons learned and reflectedin the project design:
A number o flessons have beenlearned andreflectedfrom Bank TA operations:


                                   Lesson                                              TA Design
     Capacity of PIU. The key to the success o fTA projects is the     The Bank will supervise the selection o f
     staffing o f the PIU.                                             the Project Coordinator and P I U staff.
     Ownership. Successful TA projects are characterizedby             There is broad consensus within
     demand for support emanating from beneficiary organizations       Government that beneficiary
     according to their needs, rather than through external pressures. organizations require strengthening.
                                                                       From inception, project design was done
                                                                       inassociation with local counterparts.
     Flexibility. The TA format can also provide urgently required     TA design flexible enough to allow
     resources inresponse to unforeseencircumstances.                  respond to developing requirements.
     Unbiasedprogressevaluation. The Steering Committee                An independent member o fthe Steering
     should include a knowledgeable sector expert who is not part o f  Committee will be appointed.
     the beneficiaries' staff, inorder to provide an independent
     viewpoint regarding Project orientation and support for adding
     additional institutions.
     Inspection and quality control. Studies financedby the            Technical audits will be expected for all
     Project should be subject to independent review, in order to      studies with costs inexcess o f a given
     assure that they respond to the beneficiary agencies' real needs. limit or at the behest o fthe PIU
                                                                       coordinator.



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Since the mid-90s, the Governmenthas manifested a keeninterest instabilizing the power sector
and endingfrequent supply disruptions. Ina relatively short periodof time, the Dominican
Republic's power sector evolved from a Government monopoly to a market structure, with all the
key institutions required. Nevertheless, problems have persisted, andthe Governmenthas
demonstrated its commitment to seekingsolutions:

   0    In2001, it createdthe Presidential Commissionfor the Sustainability ofElectricityReform
        to address the sector's problems.

   0    InAugust 2001, itbeganto renegotiate PPA contracts fromthe early andmid199Os,
        which hadbecome financially unsustainable.

   0    InJune 2001, Congresspassedthe Electricity Law.

   0    In2002, the Government promulgatedthe regulationsfor that Law.

   0    InSeptember 2002, Governmenteliminated subsidies andincreasedelectricity prices, at
        great political cost.
        InOctober 2003, Government invitedthe International PanelofExperts, andhas agreed
        to implementseveral o f its recommendations (especially tariff increases).
   0    InDecember 2003, the GovernmentputUS$240 millioninto itsbudgetfor support ofthe
        power sector.




                                                        - 35 -

The Presidential Commission has acknowledged that the sector, despitehaving transformed the
commercial relationships between agents and having created the requiredinstitutions, hadbeen
experiencing growing pains, andthat it must strengthenthe various institutions.

The T A has been designed with the close cooperation o f the Presidential Commission, CNE, SIE,
FONPER, PRA and PAEF; input from private sector agents, including the Discos, has also been
incorporatedinto project design. There is a general consensus that strengthening the institutions
is essential for sustainable power sector reform.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:

The Bank supports the Project with its extensive experience with TA loans andhow they should
be managed to maximize their impact. As inother countries, Bank support is helpful inensuring
that the best worldwide expertise i s made available to the Dominican Republic. The Bank has
been involved insimilar reform efforts inmany other countries, especially inLatinAmerica,
including Colombia, Peru, Argentina, Boliviaand Brazil. The Bank can help take a comprehensive
look at both the policy and institutional requirements o fthe sector, and can assist inconsensus
buildingaround proposed reforms.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit         NPV=US$million; ERR= % (see Annex4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
NIA
Note: Quantitative economic and financial analyses are not applicable for TA operations.
However successful, the project will improve the efficiency o fthe power sector and reduce the
risk o f fiture shortages, botho f which would have major economic benefits.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
The proposed loan would amount to US$7.23 million (plus front-end fees), to be disbursedover a
period o f five years. The counterpart fundingfrom the Government will be US$3.7 million. The
requiredyearly allocations will be included inthe budgets of the beneficiary institutions.

Fiscal Impact:
The Project is likely to have apositive fiscal impact, by improving the design o fthe PRA, and
thereby reducingthe needfor subsidies(currently US$5 milliodmonth).

3. Technical:
The Project would address complex issues o f electricity market development andregulation, with
the assistance o f internationaland local experts.




                                                - 36 -

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
The ExecutingAgency is CNE. It will work closely with the participating agencies, but will bear
ultimate responsibility for overall project execution.
4.2 Project management:
The Project will be managed by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), under CNE, guidedby a
Steering Committee representing the agencies involved. The Steering Committee will include an
independent member (to be appointed by CNE) who wouldprovide unbiased opinions regarding
Project management and implementation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The PIU will be responsible for administrative andfinancial aspects; terms o freference and
technical specifications will be preparedeither by the participating agencies or, ifnecessary, by
advisors hiredby the PIU. The procurement plan will be updatedevery six months. Bank
pre-approval will be required for contracts with individuals exceeding US$50,000, and with firms
exceeding US$lOO,OOO. Retroactive financing o f up to 10 percent o f the loan amount will be
available for payments made after the appraisal date, and within 12months before the expected
date o f Loan signing.
4.4 Financialmanagement issues:
On the basis o f an assessment performed from March 31 to April 3, 2003, the financial
management team concluded that upon completion o f the action plan agreed with the Government
(see Annex 6B), the financial management arrangements o f the PIU would satisfy the Bank's
minimumfinancial management requirements.
5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Because this i s a Technical Assistance project, it does not finance investments and therefore does
not entail environmental or social impacts. The TA loan includes US$1.3 millionto strengthen
environmental planning andmanagement inthe power sector.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
NIA
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                     Date of receipt o f final draft:

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
NIA
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?



                                                     -37 -

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project has several important social components, which would: (a) improve regulation and
consumer protection; (b) support efforts to improve service quality for the poor; and(c) provide
electrification to poor, rural areas. Inaddition, there wouldbe a social impact assessment o f
investments inthe power sector, to determine whether any mitigationmeasures are necessary.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?
Improvingservice inpoor neighborhoods through the PRA involves local leaders to engage
customers to sign up, as well as community meetings to explain the objectives andbenefits of the
program. Similar measures will apply for the rural electrification program to be supported by the
project. The project's support to consensusbuildingenvisages the promotion o f workshops,
seminars, meetings with key stakeholder focus groups, andin-depth interviews with key civil
society representatives andthe private sector.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Inthe rural electrification area, the Project is expected to work withthe small-scale enterprise and
bankingsector to develop means andfinancial instruments to extend availability o fbusiness
development financing to rural energy service to small andmedium-scale enterprises (SMEs).
6.4 What institutionalarrangementshavebeenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
CNE will commissiona social assessment of electricity consumption whose conclusions,
particularly regardingthe issue o f involving community participation inpoor neighborhoods, will
be incorporatedinto the PRA and the PAEF programs. The PRA program i s being supported by
the Discos andhas beensuccessful inengaging the cooperation o fthe beneficiary communities by
involving community leaders. The program is fully funded. A master rural electrification planis
being developed with assistance from NRECA (the National Rural Electricity Cooperative
Association), a specialized U.S. technical assistancebody, fundedby USAID.The French
development agency (AFD) i s also supporting the rural electrification effort.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
Inthe case ofpoor urbanneighborhoods, performance will bemonitoredby:(a) the number of
customers participating inthe program relative to the estimated number o f dwellings, (b) the
number o f legalized connections, and (c) the length o f rehabilitateddistribution lines. Inthe case
o frural populations, project performance will be monitoredby the number o fnew connections
and the changes inthe overall coverage ratio.




                                                  - 38 -

7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Areanv o fthe following safeguard Dolicies triggered bv the Droiect?




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
NIA

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
A primary objective o fthe TA is to help ensure that the power sector reforms are not halted,
reversed or rendered ineffective due to politicization or the beliefthat the benefits are accruing to
only a small part o f the population. The experience inLatinAmerica and elsewhere has beenthat
the lack o f commitment and coordination from Government mayjeopardize the continued
implementation of such reforms. Past experience inthe sector shows that this remains a risk inthe
Dominican Republic. However, it is acknowledged by the Government and the CAS Progress
Report that resolving the electricity sector issue i s now critical to the country's economic and
social stability. The CAS Progress Report's call for a national consensus around electricity sector
reform should help inmaking the next set o freform measuresmore sustainable.

A keyissue is the financial sustainability o fthe sector enterprises. Inthis regard, the monitorable
outcome would be improvements inthe cash recovery index for the sector. Improvements inthis
index are expected due to the PAEF andPRA programs, and would be required for continued
Bank program support.

The sustainability o fthe Project's results, per se, is essentially a problem o fpreservingknowledge
inthe beneficiaryorganizations. Thisrequires adequatebudgetary support for the different
agencies, and it is likely to materialize: (a) the budgets o f CNE and SIE are determined by law and
do not depend on National Budget allocations; (b) the temporary programs, PAEF and PRAY
which are nevertheless expected to extendbeyondthe duration o fthe Project, are supported by
the sector and are also not dependent on the Government budget; and (d) ETED and EGEHID
will be set up on the basis of soundbusiness planswhich should ensure their sustainability.




                                                   - 39 -

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                     Risk                         Risk Rating                  Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
National Dialogue on Electricity Sector                 H          Development o f national consensus i s a key
fails to lead to a common vision.                                  condition for continuous World Bank
                                                                   programmatic support.
Inthe politicalrun-upto the elections of                H          Process this operation with the proposed Social
M a y 2004, the congressional approval i s                         Crisis Response Adjustment Loan supporting
delayed.                                                           he1imports for electricity generation, essential
                                                                   for the mitigation for the current crisis.
Government may not support SIE                          H          The Project will support national consensus
autonomy.                                                          buildingonthe needto maintain the
                                                                   independence o fthe regulator.

SIE might not earn the respect of sector                H          Project support should improve SIE
agents regardingits transparency and                               performance, and will also emphasize
consistency.                                                       communication skills.
Political support for CNE may not                       H          CNE will receive substantial support from the
develop, thereby leaving power sector                              Project, to strengthen its policy-making
policy vulnerable to short run                                     capacity.
contingencies.

PAEF may not continue to receive                        M          Project review o f PAEF should identify areas
political support.                                                 needing correction.

Political support for professional                      M          Bank missions will continue to stress the
approach to FONPERmanagement may                                   financial importance to Government o f
not develop.                                                       FONPERperformance.
Political opposition may develop to any                 H          Review o f alternatives for private participation
type o fprivate participationin                                    will look for ways consistent with law and
transmission.                                                      policies.
Barrio communities may respond                          H          Project will emphasize the involvement o f barrio
negatively to changes inthe PRA.                                   residents throughout process.

Budgetary support for rural electrification             M          Project will look for ways o f lowering the unit
may be inadequate.                                                 costs o frural electrification.
Political and sector support for pollution              M          Bank will seek to educate sector participants
reduction may be weak.                                             and populace about environmental risks.

SIE may not be willing to undertake                     H          SIE will receive substantial support from the
far-reaching changes.                                              project.


From Components to Outputs
Lack o f PIU capacity.                                  M          Bank will supervise selection o f Project
                                                                   Coordinator.

Changes inAdministration could imperil                  H          The TA provides a forum for bridgingoutlooks


                                                      - 4 0 -

the Project.                                                 between administrations.

                                                  M          CNE, SIE, and OC have sector supported
                                                             budgetand do not require NationalBudget
                                                             funds. PRA andPAEF are supported by
                                                             Discos.
Overall Risk Rating                               S



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No controversial aspects, aside from those indicated above, are foreseen.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) Establishment o f the PIU; appointment o f the Project Manager. These conditions should
normally be satisfied before negotiations. However, it i s important to process this operation with
the Social Crisis ResponseAdjustment Loanto minimize the risk ofdelays inCongressional
approval (see Section F. Sustainability and Risks). Therefore, they are set as conditions o f
effectiveness

(b) Other conditions stated inthe Procurement and FinancingAction Plans described under
Annexes 6A & B.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]
2.1     Monitoring, review, andreporting: (i)   standard Bank covenants; (ii) Borrower will
                                                                              The
provide the Bank no later than six months after the end o f each fiscal year audit reports prepared
byindependent procurement experts, acceptable to the Bank.

2.2.    Standard retroactive financing.




                                                -41  -

2.3     The Bank and the Government will periodically meet to review progress o f the sector
reform.


H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear's activitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
         o f project implementation.
   1. b) Not applicable.

0 2. Theprocurement documentsfor thefirst year's activitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart of
      project implementation.
   3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
      quality.
34. The following items are lacking and are discussedunder loan conditions (Section G):


0  The P I U needs to be established.
0  Participation agreements between CNE and other implementing agencies need to be prepared.
0  TORs for consulting services to be contracted during first year o fimplementation needto be prepared.


1. Compliance with Bank Policies
   1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
0 2. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpolicies arerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
      all other applicable Bank policies.




Team Leader




                                                  - 4 2 -

                                     Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Power Sector Technical Assistance Project



Sector-relatedCAS Goal:
mproved framework for           Increased private sector                                     Macroeconomic stability.
)rivate sector participation in investment.
nfrastructure.
3reater access o fthe poor to                                                                Political commitment to
hebenefits of growth.                                                                        private sector role.
                                barrios.
3etter govemance.                                               Sector data on challenges to Fiscal resources available for
                                                                                             partial subsidization o f poor.

iura1and environmentally                                        Sector data on coverage.     Political commitment to
ustainable development.                                                                      regulatory independence.


'roject Development                                                                          (from Objective to Goal)
3bjective:
support the implementation                                      Independentassessments,      Private sector responds
)fthe Government's power                                        Bank country and sector      positively to improved
;ector reform program                                                                        institutional foundations.
hrough studies and capacity
mildingaimed towards:
 e Strengthening the           Well-regarded, autonomous                                     Society approves and supports
    Government's regulatory    regulatory agency.                                            Government's strategy based
    and consumer protection                                                                  on regulation, competition,
    performance.               Consumer satisfaction.                                        economic pricing and social
                                                               I                             and environmental
                                                                                             responsibility.
 e Strengthening the           [mproved power sector
    Government's               development strategy.                                         Cooperation o f poor
    policy-making capability                                                                 communities innormalizing
    and its management o f     Private sector participation in                               electricity service.
    Government interests in distribution
    power sector companies.

 e Achieving a consensus on 4greedpolicy on achieving
    power sector reform        3ower sector structure


 0  Developingthe              Reducedblackouts and system
    transmission grid and the :ollapses.
    wholesale power market
                                Stable or falling tariffs.

 e Expanding and
    improving the power         Ymprovedurban supply
    supplyto the urbanand       pality and higher rural

    rural poor.                 :overage.

 0  Protecting the              4bsence o f environmental
    environment.                lamage due to sector.


                                                           - 43 -

Output from each               Output Indicators:               'roject reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1.Repulation and Consumer
Protection

Review of SIE                  Recommendations o f review       ;IE review report.         Willingnesso f SIEto
  0 Responsibilities           widely accepted.                                            internalize assistance.
  0 Procedures
  0 Interaction with CNE                                                                   Government support for SIE
  0 Tarifffunction                                                                         autonomy.
  0 Service standards

SIE staff development          [mproved SIE performance         h u a l SIE reports.       SIE earns respect o f sector
  0 Staff training             mdreputation.                                               agents regarding its
  0 Studytours                                                                             transparency and consistency.
Regulatory advisorto SIE
                               4cceptance o f studies'
SIE Technical studies          eecommendations                  itudyreports.

PROTECOM procedures
  0 Consumer complaints        Clonsumeruse o f                 h u a l PROTECOMreport.
  0 Monitoring                 F'ROTECOM.

Appeal mechanism               Vew mechanism approved.

2. PolicyFormulation and       Studies and analyses                                        Parties agree to abide by, and
SUQQOrtfor                     :onducted under the project                                 endorse implementation of,
Consensus-buildinpon           Zoherent sector policy.                                     consensus policy
Power Sector Reforms

Support for CNE:
  0 Policy analysis            :NE becomeseffective             :NE annual sector report.  Political andbudgetary
  0 Information system         iolicy-setting institution.                                 support for CNE's functions.
  0 Staff training

PAEFAssessment                 ncreasing cash recovery          'AEF annual report.        Political support for PAEF
                               ndex.                                                       continues.

Support for FONPER:
  e Interactingwith private    Smoothrelations with             :orporate reports.         Political support for
    sector partners            Iartners.                                                   professional approach to
  e Long-termstrategy to reduce                                                            safeguarding Government's
    Government shareholdings   ;ale of Government shares.                                  interests.

3. TransmissionandPower
Market Development

Support for ETED:              'ransmissioninvestment           TED annual reports.        Political support to create
 0 Business plan               :educed blackouts and system                                independent transmission
 0 Expansion plan              ollapses.                                                   company.
 0  Staff training

SGEHID businessplan            lusiness plan.                   GEHID annualreport.


                                                          - 44 -

Uternativesfor private         Private investment.              NE sector reports.            'olitical support for private
ectorparticipationin                                                                          )articipation.
ransmission
                               Adequate transmission charge
rransmissiontariff review      established
                               Reduced congestion.

I. Electriciwfor the Poor

ledesignof PRA                 More legal connections;          RAreview report.              Zommunities respond
                               Rehabilitated networks.                                        )ositively to PRA changes.

iupport for CDEEE:
 0  Rural electrification      Improvedcoverage ratio;          ural electrification data.    3udget available for rural
    studies                    Reduced cost/family.                                           Aectrification.
 0  Rural electrification pilot
    projects
                               Consulting/ advisory reports.
iocialimpact assessment        Recommendations accepted
                               and implemented.

i. EnvironmentalProtection

Snvironmentalissues paper Issues identified.                    ipers issued; Assessment      'olitical and sector report for
                                                                om CNE.                       iollution reduction.

iectorenvironmental             Iptions identified              xtor environmental report
issessment

Snvironmentalstrategy          Less pollution from power
                               sector.                          E1monitoring.
Cnvironmentalguidelines
                                                                roject reports:               (from Components to
3ub-components:                component)                                                     Outputs)
1. Regulation and                           3,700               IUquarterly reports,
    Consumer Protection                                         iid-termreview, and final     Effective P W to coordinate

                                                                :port on investments and      project
2. Policy Formulation                       1,900               erformance o fproject
                                                                omponents;                    Continuity o f power sector
3. Transmission and Power                                                                     reform over several years and
    Market Development                     2,000                                              different administrations


4. Electricity for the Poor
                                             800                .eports o f specific studies  Adequate andtimely
5. Environmental Protection                                                                   counterpart funding
                                            1,300
6. Project Management
                                             500
7. Reserve
                                             727
8. Front-end Fee
                                              73



                                                          - 45 -

rota1FinancingRequired    11,000




                                  - 46 -

                             Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
             DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Power Sector Technical Assistance Project

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$3.70 million
                    -

Regulationand Consumer Protection(SIE, PROTECOMand OC)

1. Comprehensive,independentassessment of SIE's role and capabilities, with a view to
ensuring both its autonomy and its ability to fidfill its responsibilities. The areas covered would
include the following:

        Matters for which SIE should and shouldnot be responsible;
        SIE dealings with outside parties, such as external communications on matters which
        require a regulatory decision (including the solicitation o f comments from agents
        concerned) andhow formal proceedings should be conducted, including public hearings;

        SIE internal procedures, such as how decisions shouldbe taken within SIE;

        SIE role regardingpolicy, and its interactionwith CNE;
        How tariffs shouldbe designedand applied;

        Day-to-day regulatory questions which arise inconnection with dispatch procedures,
        billingprocedures, andwholesale market operations;
        Establishment o f service quality, metering and billing standards; and
        SIE staffing andtraining requirements.

2. SIE and OC staff development, to be based (for SIE) on the findings o fthe above
assessment. This i s likely to include in-house training, courses at Dominican institutions, and
study tours andmore extended exchanges abroad.

3. Regulatory advisor(s) to SIE, to work closely with its senior management inall areas o f
concem, bringinginternationalexperience to SIE, plus training arrangements and courses for SIE
staff.

4. Technicalstudies for SIE and OC, on topics such as charging for additional services (e.g.
reactive power), andmanaging congestion inthe transmission network.

5. Consumer protectionproceduresfor PROTECOM,including

        Customer service requirements (complaint resolution procedures);

        Monitoring service and supply quality; and

   0    Monitoring billing accuracy and timeliness.


                                                - 47 -

The Project would support consulting services as well as training for PROTECOM staff,

6. Design of a legal appeal mechanism, to replace the role o f CNE as the court o f appeal from
SIEregulatory decisions.

7. OC Market Surveillance Group, to assess market performance and suggest changes.

8. Study tours for regulators/policy makers.


Project Component 2 US$1.90 million
                     -

Policy Formulation

1. Support for consensus-building on power sector reforms. The projectwould support the
implementationo fthe Panel o f Experts' recommendation on achieving a broadbase o f support for
power sector policy and future reform. The support would include, as required:

        Expert advice on evaluating altemative reformpossibilities

        Financial evaluation o f sector sustainability under different scenarios

        Mediation support to achieve the consensus

        Workshops and seminars

        Meeting with key stakeholder focus groups

        Publications, radio, television

        In-depthinterviews with key civil society representatives andthe private sector

2. CNE policy analysis. TA will assist with:

        A broad oversight o fthe Dominican Republic's energy strategy;
        Specific technical studies (e.g. overall technical assessmento fthe power system, an
        indicative generation expansion planfor guidingprivate sector investors);

        Purchase o f specialized software for simulation andplanning; and
        Hands-on assistanceby TA-financed experts (energy economist, renewable energy
        specialist, petroleum economist).

3. CNE information collection, analysis and disseminationto the public:

        Determiningfunctional requirements of an energy information system;


                                                  - 48 -

        Establishingtechnical requirements and specifications for equipment;
        Equipment purchase and installation;
        TA for dissemination support: publications, web page; and

   0    TA for creation oftwo communication channels between CNE and energy sector
        stakeholders including consumers.

4. Trainingprogramsfor CNE staff inareas such as power sector planningand demand
forecasting, including courses insoftware utilization, andtraining for information system
management, operation and maintenance.

5. Assessment of PAEF. PAEF is the main programto increase the cash recovery index.The
project would finance an independent assessment o f PAEF performance and recommendations for
any necessary improvements.

6. Assistance to FONPER. The continuedpresence o f State investments incompanies under
private sector control requires that the interests o f the Government, as a major shareholder, be
protected. The TA support would consist of:

        Development o f a long-term strategy to reduce Government's shareholdings and increase
        private sector participation inpower sector companies;

   0    An auditing studyto evaluate the performance o fthe Government's portfolio incompanies
        where ithas an interest as investor. The auditing study will also identify weaknesses in
        FONPER'sperformance, andrequirements for staff improvement;

        Training program for FONPER staff; and

        Periodic reviewso f strategy and results.

Project Component 3 US$2.00 million
                    -
TransmissionandPowerMarket Development(ETED,EGEHID, OC)

The TA will focus on support for finalizing some o fthe second-generation reforms and
strengthening the performance o f critical enterprises, especially ETED. This component will
encompass:

1. Support for creatingthe businessplansfor ETEDandEGEHID, the transmission and
    hydro companies to be created from CDE;

2. Implementingtrainingprogramsfor ETED personnel inspecialized techniques relatedto
    operations andmaintenance (e.g. live line maintenance);

3. Identifyingalternativesfor privatesector participationintransmissionwithin the
    boundaries established by the Electricity Law;
4. Establishinga transmissionexpansionplanand its periodic updating, with an execution


                                                 - 49 -

    strategy, including a comprehensive billingmeteringsystem for all connections to the
    transmission network, and an evaluation of the effect o f an extensive installation of static
    capacitors on the distribution system, on the recommendations for installing capacitors at the
    transmission level; and
5. Reviewingthe methodologyusedfor establishingtransmissioncharges, checkingthe
    ensuingfinancial sustainability o fthe transmission enterprise, andproposingmodifications if
    necessary.

Project Component 4 US$0.80 million
                      -
Electricityfor the Poor (PRA, CDEEE,CNE)

The TA will focus on improving the delivery o f electricity inpoor urbanneighborhoods,
increasing the coverage o f electricity inrural areas andcarrying out a social impact assessment:

1. Analysis andimprovementofthe Government'sblackoutreductionprogram(PRA),
    which shouldevolve from a two-year transitional revenue improvement program to a channel
    for permanent service improvements inslum neighborhoods. A system for continuous
    monitoring o f PRA effectiveness andtraining for PRA staffwouldbe included. The analysis
    would emphasize developing the proper incentives for the Discos and customers, and keeping
    the Government's fiscal requirements to a sustainable level.
2. Support for CDEE's rural electrificationprogramthrough feasibility studies, program
    design, andinnovative approaches andtechnology.
3. Carrying out a social impactassessment to: (a) enhance the targetingandthe reacho fthe
    urbanandrural poorest; (b) strengthen institutional mechanisms aimed at consumers
    protection; and (c) help minimize the culture o f fraud. The assessmentwouldbe undertaken
    intwo phases. The first phasewill include analyticalwork around: (i) social andeconomic
                                                                              the
    costs of irregular provision o fthe electricity service including its effect on production and its
    impact on the poor. Data will be analyzed by quintiles. Estimations o f the cost o f `individual
    alternatives' to the irregular provision ofthe service will also be analyzed by quintileswith
    particularly emphasis on the poor; (ii) effectiveness o fthe PRA, and ways o f improving its
                                             the
    targeting and coverage. Means to assist rural poor will also be explored; (iii)   identify viable
    institutional arrangements incollaborationwith National Civil Society Organizations with the
    view to increase consumers' accountability and service payments. The second phase ofthis
    assessmentwill basically draw a number o fpolicy andpractice recommendations that will be
    integrated into the overall Power Sector program loans.
4. Redesignofthe BlackoutReductionProgram(PRA). The Government has agreed to
    redesign the program to improve service to urbanneighborhoods, to make it financially
    sustainable, andto realign incentives for users and for distribution companies. The TA will
    finance the surveys and studies to support the redesign o f the PRA inline with Government
    objectives, and a blueprintof the new PRA.

Project Component 5 US1.30 million
                      -


                                                  - 50 -

EnvironmentalProtection (CNE). This component would involve preparation o fthe following
documents:


1. A comprehensive strategic sectoral environmental assessment;
2. An environmentalstrategy for the sector; and
3. Environmentalguidelines for the sector, based on the DominicanRepublic's specific conditions.

Project Component 6 US$0.50 million
                      -

Project Management. A project management unit would be established under CNE. Its tasks would
include monitoring, financial accounts, procurement, disbursement and reporting to the Bank and
Government (see Annex 6B).




                                                 - 51 -

                                 Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
            DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Power Sector Technical Assistance Project



 1. Regulationand consumer protection                              1.20      2.50       3.70
 2. Policy-formulation andportfolio management                     0.90      1.oo       1.90
 3. Transmission and power market development                      1.10      0.90       2.00
 4. Electricity for the poor                                       0.00      0.80       0.80
 5. Environmentalprotection                                        0.40      0.90       1.30
 6. Operating Costs                                                0.10      0.40       0.50
 Total Baseline Cost                                               3.70      6.50       10.20
  Physical Contingencies                                           0.00      0.73       0.73
  Price Contingencies                                              0.00      0.00       0.00
                               Total Project Cost:                 3.70      7.23       10.93
                                              Front-end fee                  0.07       0.07
                          Total Financing Rewired                  3.70      7.30       11.00




 Goods                                                               0.00       0.30       0.30
 Works                                                               0.00       0.00       0.00
 Services                                                            3.60       5.50       9.10
 Training                                                            0.00       0.30       0.30
 Operating costs                                                     0.10       0.40       0.50
 Unallocated                                                         0.00       0.73       0.73
                                          Total Project Costs1       3.70       7.23       10.93
                                                  Front-end fee I
                                                               I          I     0.07 I
                                                                          I          I     0.07
~                                    Total Financing Required        3.70       7.30       11.00




                                                  -52-

1,Regulation and consumer                            3.70                33.6            2.50            34.2                 67.6
   protection
2. Policy-formulation and                            1.90                17.3            1.oo            13.7                 52.6
   portfolio management
3. Transmission and power                            2.0                 18.2            0.90            12.3                 45.0
  market development
4. Electricity for the poor                          0.80                 7.3            0.80            11.0                 100.0
5. Environmental protection                          1.30                11.8            0.90            12.3                 69.2
6. Operating costs                                   0.50                4.5             0.40             5.5                 80.0
7. Unallocated                                       0.73                 6.6            0.73            10.0                 100.0

              Total Project Costs                   10.93                99.3           7.227            99.0                 66.1
        Front-endfee (1% of Bank                    0.073                 0.7           0.073             1.o                 100.0
                              financing)
       Total Financing Required                     11.oo                100.0           7.3              100                  66.4




  1
   Identifiabletaxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 11 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 66.36% of total
  project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                    -  53   -

                         Annex 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC:Power Sector Technical Assistance Project




  Not Applicable




                          - 54 -

                                      Annex 5: Financial Summary
               DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Power Sector Technical Assistance Project
                                             Years Ending


                             I  Year1   I  Year2     I  year3    I  Year4   IYear5  IYear6  IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
   Investment Costs                0.5          1.5          1.9        1.9      1.9     1.4    0.0
  Recurrent Costs                  0.2          0.4          0.4        0.4      0.3     0.1     0.0
Total Project Costs                0.7          1.9          2.3        2.3      2.2     1.5     0.0
               Front-end fee       0.1          0.0          0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Financing                    0.8          1.9          2.3        2.3      2.2     1.5     0.0
Financing
    IBRDllDA                       0.3           1.3         1.6        1.6      1.5    1.o      0.0
    Government                     0.5          0.6          0.7        0.7      0.7    0.5      0.0
        Central                    0.5          0.6          0.7        0.7      0.7    0.5      0.0
        Provincial                 0.0          0.0          0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
    Co-financiers                  0.0          0.0          0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries             0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Other                               0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
 Total Project Financing           0.8           1.9         2.3        2.3      2.2    1.5      0.0
Main assumptions:
1.All figures inUS$ million equivalent.
2. Recurrent costs borne by the Government correspond to Project Management.




                                                    - 55 -

                            Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
           DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Power Sector Technical Assistance Project

Procurement

A) Procurement Arrangements

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,I' published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,I' published in January 1997 (revised
in September 1999, January 1999 and May 2002), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan
Agreement.

Procurement Responsibility: The Technical Assistance (TA) loan wouldbe implementedunder the
responsibility of the Comisidn Nacional de Energia (CNE). The CNE would create a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) to coordinate all technical and administrative aspects o f the project.
This PIU shall be comprised o f a Project Coordinator, Financial Management and Procurement
Specialist, who will be hired as individual consultants for the duration o f the project and will be
financed with the TA loan proceeds. Inprinciple, all other project functions will be outsourced by
selection o f individual consultants for the relevant positions.

An individual consultant specialized in procurement will assist the PIU in the procurement o f
about US$10.30 million o f Technical Assistance for studies, other consultant assignments and
training. The consultant shall be hiredbefore effectiveness. The relevant assignment i s expected to
be for a total o f eight months spread over the first two years of the project.


1) Procurementmethods: The methods to be usedfor the procurement described below, and
the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract
values for the use of each methodare fixed inTable B.

Procurementof Goods

Goods under this project will include purchase o f specialized software for simulation and
planning, and equipment purchase and installation totaling US$300,000 equivalent. To the extend
possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding packages o f more than
US$150,000 equivalent and procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts with estimated
values below US$150,000 but higher than US$50,000 may be procured using National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with the Bank.
Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger biddingpackages and estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 per contract, may be procured using shopping (National /International)
procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.




                                                  - 56 -

Selection of Consultants

Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following areas o f expertise: (a)
assessment of institutional roles and capabilities o f power sector institutions; (b) regulatory
aspects; (c) technical studies on charging for additional services and managing congestion in the
transmission network; (d) consumer protection procedures; (e) design o f legal appeal mechanism;
(f) market performance; (8) institutional development; (h) transmission and power market
development; (i)   blackout reduction; (j) rural electrification; (k) social impact assessments; and (1)
sectoral environmental assessments and studies. These services are estimated to cost
US$9,700,000 equivalent and wouldbe procured using Bank Standard Request for Proposals.

Firms
All contracts for firms estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more would be selected following
Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS); other smaller and simple contracts estimated to cost
less than US$lOO,OOO would be procured following the most appropriate                         method,
Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), Quality-Based Selection (QBS), Selection under a
Fixed Budget (SFB), Least-Cost Selection (LCS),                or Selection Based on Consultant's
Qualification (CQ), with the following aggregated amounts: Quality-Based Selection (QBS)
US$300,000; Selection under a Fixed Budget (SFB) US$200,000; Least-Cost Selection (LCS)
800,000; SelectionBased on Consultant's Qualification (CQ) 500,000.

Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison
o f qualifications o f three candidates and hired inaccordance with the provisions ofparagraphs 5.1
through 5.3 o f the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount o f US$3,000,000.

Training
Training activities to be financed under the project would include:(a) training and study tours for
the Superintendence of Electricity (SIE) anddevelopment o f the staff o f the Coordinating Body of
the Interconnected System (OC); (b) training and courses on regulatory aspects for SIE's senior
management and staff; (c) training inconsumer protectionprocedures for the Office o f Consumer
Protection o f the Power Sector (PROTECOM); (d) Study tours for regulators and policy makers;
(e) training programs for CNE stafe (f) training program for the staff o f the Patrimonial Fund
(FONPER); and (g) operations and maintenance techniques for the personnel o f the Dominican
State Electric Transmission Company (ETED). These services are estimatedto cost US$600,000,
equivalent to be deliveredboth by firms and individuals in accordance with the project needs and
the provisions of the Bark Guidelines.

Operational Costs: Sundry items, office rental, office supplies and utilities would be financed by
the loan proceeds, and will be procured under procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2) Prior review thresholds:         The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the
procurement capacity assessment o f the project implementing unit andare summarizedinTable B.




                                                  - 57 -

B) Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by the Project Implementing Unit (PIU) with the
assistance o f a specialized individual consultant. The PIU will be created by CNE before
effectiveness, and will be comprised by a Project Coordinator, Financial Management and
Procurement Specialist. The PIU staff will be hired as individual consultants for the duration o f
the project and will be financed with the TA loan proceeds. In principal, all other projects
functions will be outsourced by selection o f individual consultants for the relevant positions.
Procurement activities will be carried out by the PIUwith the assistance o f a specialized individual
consultant that shall be hired before effectiveness. The PIU's and individual procurement
consultant's contracts will be included inthe procurement plan for the first year o f the project to
be presented by CNE. The Operations Manual will include, in addition to the procurement
procedures, the Standard BiddingDocuments to be used for each procurement method, as well as
model contracts for goods procured on the basis o f shopping. The Operations Manual will
describe procurement monitoring and filling system, which should be available to supervision
missions o f the Bank and auditors uponrequest.

An assessment o f the capacity o f the PIU to implement procurement actions for the project has
been carried out andwas approvedby the Regional Procurement Advisor on 5 May 2003.


The overall project risk for procurement i s HIGH.

To minimize the highrisk o fimplementation, the following planhas beenproposed:

        Establishment o fthe PIUwith hiringo fkey personnel as project coordinator, financial
        management andprocurement specialist, with TORSapproved by the Bank, as a condition
        o f effectiveness.
        Selection o f a procurement specialist with extensive experience inBank-financed projects.
        Terms o freference and proposed candidates to be reviewed by the Bank.
        Procurement training providedby the Bank to the PIU, by project effectiveness. Seminar
        on procurement to cover consulting services, shopping andN C B (ifany).
        Preparationby the PIU o f draR biddingdocuments for all processes by March 2004.
        Preparationby PIU, with the assistanceo f the Bank, o f a detailed procurement plan for
        the first year o fimplementation.
        Preparation o f the PIU o f an operations manual with a specific chapter on procurement,
        detailingall the procedures andchannels ofresponsibilities and flow o f documentation.
        Reviewedbefore negotiations, it will be subsequently submitted for Bank's no objection as
        a condition o f effectiveness.
        Establishment o f a procurement filing system (readily available off-the-shelf), to be
        subsequently submitted for Bank's no objection as a condition o f effectiveness.



                                                - 58-

C) ProcurementPlan

A preliminary procurement plan covering the first year o f operation has been submitted by CNE
and i s attached hereinafter. The detailed procurement plan for the first year o f implementation will
be a condition of effectiveness. At the beginning o f each calendar year the CNE shall update the
procurement plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year, which should
include: (i) the list o f contracts completed, under execution, under procurement, to be procured in
the upcoming year; (ii)cost o f completed and under execution contracts, estimated costs for
upcoming contracts; (iii)schedule o f bidding; and (iv) particular methods o f selection o f
consultants .

D) Freauencvof ProcurementSur>ervision

Inadditionto the prior review supervisionto becarriedout from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment o f the PIUhas recommended at least one supervision post-review missionper year.
Based on the overall risk management (HIGH), the post-review field analysis should review at
least one infive contracts, and one procurement audit inconjunction with the financial audit o f the
project.




                                                 - 59 -

Procurement methods (Table A)


                      Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                       (US$ million equivalent)

                                                 ProcurementMethod'

    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB             Othe+          N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                              0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00             0.00            0.30            0.00           0.30
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.30)         (0.00)          (0.30)
3. Services3                          0.00             0.00            6.90            2.20           9.10
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (5.50)         (0.00)          (5.50)
4. Training                           0.00             0.00            0.30            0.00           0.30
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.30)         (0.00)          (0.30)
5. Operational Costs                  0.00             0.00            0.50            0.00           0.50
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.40)         (0.00)          (0.40)
6. Unallocated                        0.00             0.00            0.73            0.00           0.73
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.73)         (0.00)          (0.73)
7. Front-end fee                      0.00             0.00            0.073           0.00          0.073
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.073)         (0.00)         (0.073)
   Total                              0.00             0.00             8.80           2.20            11
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (7.30)         (0.00)          (7.30)


       11   Figures inparenthesisare the amountsto be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
            contingencies.

       21   The amount for goods will include purchaseof specializedsoftware for simulation andplanning,
            and equipmentpurchaseand installation, to be procured under shopping.
            Includesconsulting services renderedby f m s and individuals, the latter including consultants for
            Training; and expendituresrelated to Training, like travel, course fees, etc.
       3I4  Consulting services are inthe fields of regulation, energy planning, energy policy, information
            technology, power sector business strategy, communication, social assessments, environmental
            assessments, accounting, audit. This items include operation costs.


      Captions: ICB: International Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding; Other: includes
      Selection of Consultants; NBF: Not Bank-Financed.




                                                   - 60 -

          Table AI : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                              (US$ million equivalent)




'Including contingencies.

Note: QCBS = Quality-and-Cost-BasedSelectionfor services such as transmission planning and
        power sector indicative plans.
        QBS = Quality-BasedSelectionfor services such as developmentof power sector regulation
       and energy policy issues and options studies.
        SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budgetfor services such as design and implementationof
        information systems.
        LCS = Least-CostSelectionfor services such as accounting audits.
        CQ = Selection Based on Consultant'sQualificationsfor services such as advice on legal and
        regulatory issues.
        Other = Selection of IndividualConsultants(per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
        Commercial Practices,etc;for the staff of the Project Implementation Unit, and specialized
       consultant services on energy planning,and social and environmental issues.
        N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
        Figures in parenthesisare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.




                                        - 61 -

              Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

                                                                            Contracts Subject to
        Category             (Threshold)                 Method                Prior Review I
                                                                               Estimated Total
                                                                              Value Subject to

                                                I                               Prior Review
                            U S $ thousands

   1. Works                       NA                        NA                      NA



   2. Goods
                                  >150
                               <150 >50                                           First two
                                  <50              Int'l&Nat. Shopping              First
   3. Services
   - Firms                        >loo                    QCBS                       All
   - Individuals                  4 0 0           IrrespectiveofMethod              TOR
                                  >50                   Comparison                   All
                                  <50                    of  3cv                    TOR


Overall Procurement RiskAssessment:

                     High
                     Average


Frequency of procurement supervision missionsproposed: One every 12month(s) (includes special
procurement supervisionfor post-review) reviewinga sample of 1in 5 contracts signed.




                                                - 62 -

   Description         Bid        Methodof Estimated Amount Bidding              No          Call for   Bid        No          Contract   Contract    Supplier or
                       Number     Procurem. Vs. Actual inUS$ Documents Objection Bids                   Opening     Objection  Signature End          Contractor
                                                                                 BidDocs                            Evaluation            (delivery) Name
                                             Estimated

                                             Actual




  Description          Bid      Methodof Estimated Amount in Bidding               o        Call for   Bid Openin No           Contract  Contract     Supplier or
                       Number   Procurem. Vs. Actual US$           Documents Obiection Bids                        Obiection   Signature End          Contractor
                                                                                  B i iDocs                        Evaluation            (delivery)  Name
  EnergyInformation              Shopping   Estimated 45,000       06/15/04       07101104 2/28/04     07/31/04    10115104    11/10104 12110/04
  System                                    Actual
  Filing Software                Shopping   Estimated 5,000                                                                               04115104

                                            Actual




CABLE3: Consul1
      Description        Method( Estimated                         ?.equest fo No Object. Closing No Object. No Object.      No     Contract    Elldl
                                                                                                                                                Contract Consul-
                         Selectioi vs. ActualII Amount II Advertise
                                                inUS$     date in proposals     to RFP     date for  Technical   Final    Obiection Signature
                                                          UNDB
Consultantto devel01     IC        Estimated 50,000      N A        04115/04 04120104 05/20104       -         06/01104   06/10/04   06120104
overall work plan for
the Project                        Actual

Consultantsfor PIU.      IC        Estimated 750,000 N A           06130104 07/05/04                                                 10130104

                                   Actual

Consultantto develo1     CQ        Estimated 40,000      NA        07/15/04 07120104 08/20104        -         09120104   10120104   10/27/04
softwarespec's for
EnergyInformation                  Actual
System.
Inspectionof             CQ        Estimated 15,000      N A       08130104 09/15/04 10/15104 -                12/15/04   01/15/05   01/22/05 05110105
Information System:
assurethat                         Actual
implementationis
accordingto spec's,               *
test system against
performancespec's.
Consultantto suppori     IC        Estimated 30,000      N A                                                                                    03!10105
the implementationo
the energy database                Actual

Power sectorplanninl     CQ                                        07/15/04   I 07/20/04 I08/20/04  I-        I09130104  I 10131104 I 11/07/04  01/22/05
course to be taught in            +
CNE                                Actual

Energyplanning           IC                                                                                                                     12131/08
advisor to support                m - - t      (Year 1)
CNE throughoutthe
projectwith penodic
visits
Transmission             IC        Estimated I 50.000 INA                                                                                       12131/08
planningadvisorto
support CNE, ETED                  Actual
and OCthroughout
the project
Power Sector             QCBS      Estimated 200,000 01/31/04                                                                                   12110105
Indicative Planto be
outsourcedto a
specializedconsulting
enterprise, under



                                                                              - 63 -

                                                                                                                       TI
 CNE supervision
On-call                                    T-L                                  4          10131104 11130104  12/07/04 12131108
environmental                       (Year 1
advisor to support        Actual
CNE throughout the
project
Sector Environmenta                                            07/01/04 11/30/04 12/25/04  01/15/05 02/15/05  03/25/05
Assessmentto be
outsourced to a
                          -t
specializedconsultinj
enterprise,under
CNE-supervision           7-
Commercialpractice!       Estimated 120,001 07/31/04 08/30/04                    11125104  I2115104 OI/15105  01/25/05
improvement study tc
addressthe losses anc     Actual
collections problem
andto redesignPRA
accordingly
RegulatoryAdvisor                                                                         09/20/04  10/20/04  10/271/04
to support SIE
throughout theprojec

Sector structure and                       07131104 08/30/04                    11/25/04  12115104  01/15/05  01/25/05
competitivenessstud)

Regulatory review                                                               11/25/04 I 12/15/04\01115/05 \01/25105
and reform study          Actual
                          7                J 4-L
Management                                                                      10/10/05 I10/31105 I10131105 I12110105
consulting to support
CDEEE inputting           Actual
together EGEHID1                                                                444
ETEDbusinessplans
and creating separate
businesses            T
Social impact                              06130104 08130104                    11125104  12/15/04  01115105  02/25/05
assessmentto guide
CNE inthe                 4ctual
formulation of
subsidization policies                                        --t
and tariffs
Procurement                                                   07/05/04                                        8130104
Specialist                4ctual
                                           I




                                                             - 64 -

             Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
             DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Power Sector TechnicalAssistance Project

FinancialManagement
1. Summaryof the FinancialManagementAssessment
Conclusion. On the basis o f an assessment performed from March 31 to April 3, 2003, the
financial management team concludes that, upon completion o f the proposed action plan, the
financial management arrangements o f the PIU would satisfy the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements. Therefore, the team would advise that the conditions listed in the
assessment be considered as conditions o f effectiveness inthe legal agreement to be prepared and
signed with the Borrower under the Power Sector Technical Assistance Project.

Strengths and Weaknesses. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be created in CNE may
face significant weaknesses since the procedures governing financial management functions and
the systems they will use to carry out their functions, will all need to be adapted to meet Bank
requirements. However, a notable strength i s that the current accounting staff at CNE, including
the accountant they expect to hire for the PIU, have previous experience managing the accounting
functions for projects with external financing.

Flow of Funds. As per procedures currently being used by the Dominican Government, the
National Treasury (TN) will advance funds to the Project from a U S Dollar Special Account (SA)
maintained inthe Central Bank andreplenished as eligible expenditures are incurredinaccordance
with agreed annual work plans. To access the funds in the SA, the PIU will request a transfer
from the SA to the Treasury. Once the funds are cleared, the Treasury will inform the PIU that a
check in Dominican Pesos i s available for pick up. The PIU can deposit this check into their
operational account.

Staffing. The FinanciaVAdministrative team will consist o f a Project ManagedFinancial Manager,
an IT specialist and an accountant. They will be responsible for the accounting, reporting and
financial planning o f the project including the reporting through Financial Management
Reports-FMR, preparation o f payment requests, preparation o f Statements o f Expenditures
(SOEs), and operation o f the SA.

At the date o f the assessment, the Project Accountant and the Project Manager had not been
appointed. As a condition of effectiveness, the project should hire the Project Manager and
Project Accountant.

Accounting Policies and Procedures. Accounting and administrative procedures will be inplace
as sections o f the operations manual to ensure that financial transactions are made with
consideration     to   safeguarding    project   assets and   ensuring proper      entry  in the
accounting/monitoring systems. The PIU's accounting system has the capacity to record assets,
liabilities and financial transactions in accordance with Bank recommended procedures and it can
produce financial statements useful to for management and that meet the Bank's fiduciary
requirements




                                                 - 65 -

Project OperationsManual.          Policies and procedures defined in an Operational Manual (OM)
should aim at controlling project activities and ensure staff accountability. At the date o f the
assessment, the OM had not beenprepared. Therefore, as a conditionof effectiveness,the PIU
should presenta draft OM for review andclearanceby the Bank.

Segregationof duties. The PIU's organizational structure will support an adequate segregation
ofprocurement, accounting and recording activities. The authorizationto execute a transaction is
the main responsibility o f the CNE Director. The recording of the transaction and monthly
reconciliations are the main responsibility o f the project accountant and are supervised by the
Project Manager andreviewedby the InternalAuditor.

Annual Work Plans/Budgeting. The loan agreement, the procurement plan, and the
implementationplanwill provide the maininput for the annual work plans. The PIU will prepare
an annual budget and work plan that will include:

        An annual executionplanclassified bymajor goals andobjectives, includingphysicaland
         financial programs. It i s important to note that these goals and objectives mustbe
        measurable and quantifiable within a reasonableperiod o ftime.

   0    A budgetproposal(broken down at least quarterly) speciQing the detailedexpenditures
        bymajor component, category and sources of funds.

Accounting. The PIUwill maintainthe project's records andaccounts usingthe cashbasis of
accounting and following Generally Accepted Accounting Practices andthose recommended by
the Bank. Bank loan funds and counterpart funds will be accounted for separately. The proposed
chart o f accounts was reviewed and found satisfactory.

2. Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit. The PIU has its own internal audit h c t i o n . There is an internal auditor who will
review both the operational and financial aspects of the project with the objectives o f ensuring
compliance with applicable norms andregulations.

External Audit. The PIU intends to hire an external audit firm to carry out annual audits. Audit
TORS will be prepared on the basis o f the "Guidelines and Terms o f Reference for auditing of
Projects financed by World Bank inLatinAmerica and Caribbean Countries" and submitted to the
Bank, along with the audit firm short list, for no objection.

The annual audit report will be due four months after the fiscal year end. The PIU has a fiscal
year o f January 1to December 31.

ReportingandMonitoring

Financial Statements. Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats satisfying
boththe Government and the Bank's monitoring and fiduciary purposes.

The PIU will be responsible for producing quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to be


                                                 -66  -

submitted to the Bank 45 days after the end o f each quarter. The FMRs will include a narrative
outlining the Program's major achievements for the quarter, the sources and uses of funds, a
detailed analysis o f expenditures by component, a physical progress report, and a procurement
report.  FMRs should be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after the end of the
reporting period.

The FMR format was agreed upon during negotiations. The PIU submitted a draft format
for review and comment to the FMS prior to negotiations.

The annual financial statements will include the Project's Statement o f Sources and Uses o f
Funds, a Statement o f Cumulative Investments, Statement o f SOEs and a Statement of the SA.
These reports will be made available to the auditors after the end ofthe fiscal year.

Information Systems. The PIUwill use an automated financial management system. The system
allows for expenditures to be segregated by project component/activity, major disbursement
category and financing source, which i s compatible with the Bank's recommended practices for
project accounting.

Special Account.      The PIU will establish a Special Account in United States dollars, at the
Central Bank. The Special Account i s only to be used for eligible expenditures under the loan
agreement. Under no circumstances may funds inthe Special Account be usedto cover the share
o f expenditures corresponding to the counterpart funds. Transfers from the Special Account to
other project bank accounts will only be permitted to meet eligible expenditures for a
limited period of no more than 30 days.

Total advances to the Special Account at any given time would not exceed the authorized
allocation amount to be determined at loan negotiations.

For replenishment o f the Special Account, the PIU will submit periodic requests (not to exceed 3
months) for reimbursement o f expenditures made.

Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Loan withdrawal applications will be supported by
SOEs for expenditures relating to contracts that are not subject to the Bank's prior review.
Reimbursement o f other expenditures would require submittal to the Bank o f full supporting
documentation.

Documents insupport o f SOEs must be maintainedby the PIU for at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the loan withdrawal was made. Such
documents must be available to review by extemal auditors andBank staff,

Other procedures.      Upon request from the Borrower and subject to the Bank's approval,
payments may be made: (i)   directly to a thirdparty (supplier or consultant) for goods, works and
services; (ii)to a procurement agent; or (iii) a commercial bank for expenditures against a
                                                to
World Bank Special Commitment covering a commercial bank's letter o f credit.




                                               -67 -

Action Plan. This actionplanhasbeen agreedwith CNE to comply with all FMrequirements.

                                       Area I Action                                 IExpected date


      Prepare an Operational Manual and submit to the Bank for review and no          Done
      objection.

      2. Flow of funds
      2.1 Open the Special Account inU S Dollars inthe Central Bank.                  BY
                                                                                      effectiveness
      2.2 Request the initial deposit o f counterpart funds inthe Project Account.    BY
                                                                                      effectiveness

      3. PIUStaffing
      3.1 Hire Project Manager and Project Accountant.                                BY
                                                                                      effectiveness
      3.2 Arrange for training to be provided by the Bank for financial management    By
      and disbursement.                                                               disbursement

      4. Accounting and internalcontrol
      4.1 Submit to the Bank a sample format of the FMRto be used for reporting       Done
      purposes.

      5. External audit
      5.1 Prepare the audit TORSand short list o f firms and submit to the Bank for   Done
      review and clearance.
      5.2 Once the Bank clears the TOR and short list o f auditor firms, proceed with February
      biddingprocess and the appointment ofthe auditors.                              2004




SupervisionPlan

After effectiveness, an FM Specialist must review the annual audit reports and should perform at
least one supervision missionper year or more often as needed.

Conditions

Based on this assessment, we recommendthe following conditions:

For effectiveness: (i)  open Special Account at the Central Bank; (ii) the initial deposit o f
                                                                                  request
counterpart hnds in the Project Account; (iii)           prepare a draft Operations Manual and submit to
the Bank for review andno objection; and (iv) hire Project Manager and Project Accountant.

For disbursement: arrange for training to be provided by the Bank for financial management and
disbursement.




                                                        - 68 -

3. DisbursementArrangements

Disbursements will bemade according to the DisbursementLetter instructions releasedby LOA
after compliance of all effectiveness conditions. Disbursements will be transactions and not report
based, andwill follow standardBank procedures. All pertinent documentation will be filedat the
PIUfor inspectionby the Auditors and Bank'ssupervision missions. Withdrawal applications for
the eligible expenditures will be supported by SOEs/Summary Sheets as appropriate.

Inview ofthe "High"risk ofthisprojectregarding procurement matters, SOEswouldbe
prepared andsubmittedfor individual consultants for amounts less than the equivalent o f
US$15,000, and for consultant firms for amounts less than the equivalent o f US$30,000. Above
these limits, reimbursement requests shall be submittedvia SS (Summary Sheets), with full
documentation attached.

CNEwill designate the personnel authorized to sign the applications and send indue course the
relevant signature specimens to the LoanDepartment.

Given the need for jumpstartingthe project with hiringo f (mainly)individual consultants,
retroactive financing o f up to 10%o f the loan amount will be available for payments after date of
appraisal.

  Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)

                                 Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds


IlGoods                                                 0.30     I     100%of foreign expenditures;
                                                                               75% of local              I
  Consultants' Services                   II            5.50     180%of local consultants; 85% of foreign
                                                                                consultants
  Training                                              0.30                      100%
  Ouerating Costs                                       0.40                      100%
  Unallocated                                           0.73

  Total Project Costs with Bank                         7.23
  Financing
                              Front-endfee              0.07                      100%
  Total                                                 7.30


  Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

SOE-baseddisbursementwill be used.

  Special account:
The SpecialAccount will have a ceiling of U S $ l.O million.



                                                   - 69 -

                                Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
             DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Power Sector Technical Assistance Project



  Time taken to prepare the project (months)              6                     4
  First Bank mission (identification)                     01/27/2003            01/27/2003
1 Appraisal mission departure                    I        04/30/2003       I    05/22/2003    I
  Negotiations                                            05/05/2003            12/19/2003
  Planned Date of Effectiveness                           04/01/2004

Prepared by:
Jayme Port0 Carreiro


Preparation assistance:
Fernando Lecaros (Consultant)            FionaWoolf (Consultant)
RafaelMoscote (Consultant)               Cristiane Schmidt (Consultant)
Jim Barker (Consultant)                  Fabio M o n a (Consultant)
StephenEttinger (Consultant)             Isidro Santana (Consultant)


Bank staff who worked on the Droiect included:
           Name                                           Speciality
 ~~~
  Jyoti Shukla                            Sector Leader
  Josefina Stubbs                         Social Development
  Patricia de la Fuente Hoyes             Financial Management
  Charles Feinstein                       Rural Electrification
  Luiz Maurer                             Financial Specialist
  Auguste Kouame                          Senior Country Economist
  Paul0 Correa                            Market Structure
  Juan Quintero                           Environment
  Juan Carlos Alvarez                     Legal Counsel
  Guido Paolucci                          Procurement
  Katia Nemes                             ACS
  Smriti Goyal                            JPA
  Peer Reviewers:
  BernardTenenbaum                        Energy Specialist
  Alain Barbu                             Manager
  Ananda Covindassamy                     Sector Manager




                                                   - 70 -

                           Annex 8: Documents in the Project File"
           DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Power Sector Technical Assistance Project


A. Project Implementation Plan
Preparedby CNE, 30 April 2003.

B. Bank Staff Assessments

FinancialAssessment and related working papers.
Procurement Assessment andrelatedworking papers.

C. Other

Procurement Plan, prepared by CNE, 7 December 2003.
Minutes of IdentificationMission.
Minutes of Energy Sector BoardReview Meeting.
Minutes of PCN Review Meeting.
Minutes of PCD Review Meeting.
Preliminary Sectoral EnvironmentalAssessment.
Preliminary Social Impact Assessment.

*Including electronicfiles




                                           - 71 -

                                           Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                     DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Power Sector Technical Assistance Project
                                                                21-Dec-2003
                                                                                                                       Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                and actual
                                                                      Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
 Project ID  FY    Purpose                                       IBRD          IDA                      Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO76802      2003 DO-Health Reform Support (APL)                    30.00       0.00                       0.00   30.00         0.00      0.00
PO54937      2003 DO-EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION PROJECT             42.00        0.00                       0.00   41.58         3.21      0.00
PO71505      2001 DO-HIVIAIDS Prevention & Control Proj.           25.00        0.00                       0.00   21.87        -3.12      0.00
PO68753      2001 DO- Global Distance Learning Network              3.43        0.00                       0.00     1.83       -1.18      0.00
PO59510      2000 DO WASTEWTR DISPOSAL IN TSM CNTERS (L             5.00        0.00                       0.00     4.44        4.44      2.30
PO52736      1997 DO:TELECOM REG. REFORM                            12.30       0.00                       0.00     4.75        4.75      0.00
PO07020      1995 DO IRRIG LAND & WATERSH (SIM)                    28.00        0.00                       0.30   13.89       14.19      14.19

                                                         Total:   145.73        0.00                       0.30   118.36       22.29      16.49




                                                                    - 72 -

                                   DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                  Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                        NOV - 2003
                                              30
                                      InMillions US Dollars

                                                       Committed                       Disbursed
                                                      IFC                            IFC
FY Approval    Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1995           Smith-Enron                     12.07    0.00     3.95   10.61   12.07  0.00    3.95  10.61
1998           Flamenco Bavaro                  3.54    0.00     7.70   12.21   3.54   0.00    7.70  12.21
2000           Hospiten                         1.86    0.00     0.00    1.80    1.86  0.00    0.00   1.80
2000           Rica                            10.00    0.00     3.00    0.00   10.00  0.00    3.00   0.00
2002           Caucedo Port                    30.00    0.00     0.00    0.00  23.80   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002           OrangeDominicana                35.00    0.00    15.00   50.00  32.53   0.00    15.00 46.47
2003           BancoBHD                        10.00    0.00    10.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    10.00  0.00
2004           DomicemS.A.                     24.00    0.00     0.00   24.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
                     Total Portfolio:         126.47    0.00     39.65  98.62   83.80   0.00   39.65  71.09



                                                   Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                             Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2003          ADOPEM                               2.00      1.50     0.00     0.00
2004          GrupoM                              20.00      0.00     0.00     0.00

              Total PendingCommitment:            22.00      1.50     0.00     0.00




                                              - 73 -

                                                          ReDubiic     8 Carib     Income
2002                                                                                             Development diamond'
Pooulation mid-vear (m illions)                                 8 8        527       2411
GNI Der caoita (Atlas method US S)                            2.320      3 28C       1.390                          Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                               209       1,127       3,352
Averageannual growth, 1998-02
Population(%)                                                    1 1        1 5         1 0
Labor force (%)                                                 2 4         2 2                  GNI                                           Gross
Most recent estimate (latest Year available. 1996-02)                                            per                               I+         primary
Poverty (% of population below national poverv line)             29                              capita                                     enrollmen
Urban population (% of total population)                         61         76          49
Life exoectancv at birth hears)                                  61         1 1         69
Infant mortality(per 1,000 live births)                          41         27          30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                         5           9        11
                                                                                                           -
Access to an imoroved water source 1% of w~ulation)              66         86          81                Access to improved water source
Illiteracy (% of populationage 15+)                              16          1 1        13
Gross Drim arv enrollment I% of school-aaeooDulabon)            124         130        Ill
    Male                                                        126         131        111             e "      Dominican Republic
    Female                                                      122         128        110                      Lower-middleincomegroup
KEY ECONOMH: RATlOSand LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                     1982     1992        200 1       2002

GDP (US$ billions)                                    6 0       8 8       21 3         21           Economic raUos'

Gross domestic InvestmentGDP                         20 0      22 6       23 1         23 1
Exoorts of ooods and serviceslGDP                    143       262        23 9         25 9                               Trade
Gross dom estic sav ingsX; DP                        15 1      10 9       15 2         14 6
Gross national savinasEDP                            144       167        19 4         19 5

Current account balancelGDP                          -5 5       -6 6       -3 4        -3 8
Interest paymentslGDP                                 1 6        1 4        1 1                    Domestic                                 lnvesin ent
Total debtlGD P                                      31 6      52 3       23 9         26          savings
Total debt servicelexoorts                           345       12 6         8 2        12 0
Presentvalue of debWGDP                                                   22 8
Presentvalue of debtlexoorts                                              63 9

                                         1982-92  1992-02     2001        2002     2002-06                             hdebtedness

(average annualgrowth)
GD P                                         2 8      6 2       2 9         4 1         2 2              -a"-     Dominican Republic
GDP per capita                               0 8      4 5        1 2        2 4         0 5
Exoorts of ooods and services                                                                             -Lower-middle-incomegroup
                                             9 4      8 6       -6 3       -1 1         4 6


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                     1982     1992        200 1       2002        Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDPj                                                                                      3 0
Agriculture                                          17 7      13 6        11 4        11 8     ;;
Indus try                                            266       31 8       33 2         327      1 5
   Manufacturina                                     18 3      18 9        16 2        162         :
                                                                                                lo
Services                                             53 1      54 6       55 4         55 5
Privat? consumption                                  152       66.0       76.8         74 3         1997      1698     lBS9    2000       2001     2002

General aovernment consum Dtion                       9 8        3.1        7.9         8 9                     -GDI            V G D ?
Imports of goods and services



(average annualnrowfhl                                                                            Growthofexports and imports        ( O h )
Agriculture                                          -0.1       4.1         4.9         2.5       =r                                                   I
Industry                                              4 9       7 2         0 1         3 7       20
   Manufacturina                                      4 0       4 5        -1 3         4 0
Services                                              2 6       6 4         4 8         4 7       lo


Privat? consumption                                   3 6       5 7         2 0         0 7         3
General aovernment consum otion                      -7 1      17 1       14 1         16 4     . i o
Gross domestic investment
tmports of goods and services                        10a
                                                      5 1       6.6
                                                                6 3        -7.0
                                                                            5.2        15.4
                                                                                        3 .o                 -~~*-~xports       -Imports



Note: 2002 data arepreliminary estimates.
This table was produced from R e Development Economics central database
  The diamondsshowfourkey indicators in the country (in bo1d)comparedwith its income-group average. Ifdata aremissing, the diamond will
    be incomplet?.




                                                                    - 74 -

                                                                                                           Dominican Remblic

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                1982      1992       2001     20 02
Domestic Drices
("A change)
Consumer orices                                   7.5      539         8.9      5 2
Implicit GDP deflator                             7.9       8 3        8 A      6A

Governmentfinance
I%of GDP.includes current arants)
Current revenue                                            150        16.5     16.7
Current budget bla nce                                      8 3        3.9      4.6
Odera1I sur0lus/deficit                                     1 2       -1.9     -22

TRADE
                                                1982      1992       2001     2002            Exportand Imput levels (US$ mill.)
/US$millions)
Total exports (Merchandise)                               1,105      2,486   2,338                                                         I
  Raw sugar                                                 96          65
  Raw cocoa                                                 32          38
  Manufactures                                             678       1,691
Total imDorts (Merchandise1                              2.785       5.937   6237
  Focd                                                      11         356
  Fuel and energy                                           507      1240
  CaDital ooods                                            497       1285                     E x p o r t s            "ports



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                1982      I992        2001    2002
(US$millions)                                                                                Current Account Balance to GDP   ( O h )
EXDO~~Sof aoods and services                    1.142    2.354       5,485   5.183   I
Imports of goods and services                   1,535                7232    7,521
Resource balance                                 -393   - 3,401
                                                          1.048     -1.747   -2.338

Net income                                       -254      432      -1.119   -1209
Netcurrent tansfers                              205        898      2 ,I
                                                                        14    2,330

Current account balance                          442       -582       -752    -807

Financing items(net)                              295       608      1271       282
Changes in net reserves                           147       -26       -519      584

Mem0:
Reserves includina aold (US$ millions)                      490      1.341      632
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                  1.o      128         16.9    18.6

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                1982      1992        2001    20 02
(US$millions)                                                                         Composition of 200 1debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandina and disbursed            2.521     4.613      5,093    5.693
  IBRD                                            116       255        317      350                           117
  IDA                                              22        19         13       13

Total debt service                                396       346        621      9 14
  IBRD                                             10        44         46       46
  IDA                                               0         1           1       1

Composition of net resource flows
  Official arants                                   9        23         44        0
  Official creditors                              288        -9        -55    -84.9
  Privatecreditors                                -12       -19        530      463
  Foreian direct investm ent                       -1       180      1.079      961
  Portblio equity                                   0         0        113       10


World BankDroaram
  CommRmenG                                        25        79         25       42   A - IBRO                               E Bilataal
                                                                                                                                 --
  Disbursemenls                                    25        35         49       57   B * IDA      D -Other multilateral     F
                                                                                      C -IMF                                 G Short-term
                                                                                                                                  .Private
  PrinciDal reoavments                              2        25         24       24
  Net lows                                         23        10         25       33
  Interestoavments                                  8        19         23       22
  Net tansfers                                     14       -10          2        11


Note:Thistablewas produced from the Development Economics cental database




                                                               - 75 -




