Power Sector Technical Assistance Project
                                                                                                       93577
                                                                                                       May 10, 2012




 Supporting reforms in the Dominican Republic's electricity sector


Overview
The activities financed by this World Bank project allowed the Government of Dominican
Republic to take important measures to re-launch reforms in the electricity sector. The project
provided important studies and activities that helped to improve the capabilities and
performance of key institutions in this sector, including the fostering of a whole area of
expertise on renewable energy and energy efficiency.


Challenge
The project sought to address the institutional capacity
                                                                    More Results
weakness of the power sector entities in the Dominican
Republic. Institutional strengthening of the electricity sector

                                                                    US$11.0
was recognized as a key factor to achieve the required
sector reforms. The Loan focused on strengthening various
key sectoral institutions accordingly. The inefficiencies of the

                                                                    million
sector resulted in a service of very low quality and high cost.
The Project was effective in accomplishing many of the
proposed capacity building and institutional strengthening
                                                                    was the originally value of the
activities. The power sector today has significantly increased      project
the number of hours of service and the number of poor
people with access to electricity.


Approach
                                                                    LEARN MORE
The project document and several other Bank studies
                                                                     Dominican Republic Power
pointed out the lack of independence of the power sector
                                                                     Sector Technical Assistance
regulator to operate efficiently.  Activities to strengthen the      Project, closed on December 31,
independence of this institution in the context of the energy        2010
framework created by the government, as well as its capacity
                                                                     Dominican Republic Electricity
and that of related institutions to carry out their respective
                                                                     Distribution Rehabilitation
functions, were two of the objectives of this technical              Project
assistance loan. The Bank worked consistently with the
National Energy Commission and other beneficiary
institutions to improve the quality of studies, to perform useful
training, and to solve problems that arose.


Results
The Power Sector Technical Assistance Project had several specific objectives and was
designed to provide expert assistance to contribute towards:
      Improved power sector development strategy, foster private sector participation
      in distribution, and agreed policy on achieving power sector structure. The project
      helped the Dominican Republic government to improve policy formulation and
      implementation by: (i) promoting a national dialogue to achieve a consensus on required
      reforms and the participation of the private sector; (ii) strengthening the National Energy
      Commission; (iii) funding the public consultation processes; and (iv) improving the
      management of government interests as shareholder in power sector enterprises. All
      activities were completed. It also resulted in an improved sector development strategy,
      and the National Energy Commission has achieved a new level of capacity in terms of
      policy formulation, despite shortcomings in two indicators.

      Reduced blackouts and system collapses, while encouraging stable or falling
      tariffs. The project sought to help address the design of the transmission grid and the
      wholesale power market, to improve system reliability and increase competition in the
      wholesale power market. While blackouts were reduced, they continue to affect the
      sector.

      Improve urban supply quality and higher rural coverage. The aim was to increase
      the quantity and quality of electricity for the poor, through rural electrification programs
      and by improving the Blackout Reduction Program (Programa Nacional de Reducción de
      Apagones, or PRA) in urban barrios (low-income neighborhoods). The rural
      electrification activity under the project had its shortcomings, however, on the positive
      side, the PRA scheme was no longer required from 2009-2010, which indicated
      improved urban supply quality.

      Absence of environmental damage caused by power activities. There has been
      increased environmental awareness and a stronger interest in developing renewable
      energy. However, there was  no evidence indicating that the power sector is polluting
      less than before.



Bank Contribution
This five-year Power Sector Technical Assistance Project was an element of an overall
assistance package to the Dominican Republic power sector. The total project was originally
valued at US$11.0 million, of which the IBRD would provide US$7.3 million and the
government would provide US$3.7 million. The Bank provided its full allocation under the
project while the counterpart funds reached US$3.0 million (81 percent). Financing of the
project totaled US$10.3 million of which a total of US$8.9 million was invested in project
activities, representing 81.2 percent of the planned amount.


Partners
In addition to close collaboration with the government, particularly through the ministries of
Finance, and Economy and Planning, the project worked in partnership with the Inter-American
Development Bank (IADB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).


Moving Forward
The project formed a platform for the development of the Dominican Republic Electricity
Distribution Rehabilitation Project that was approved by the World Bank on April 18, 2008. The
total amount was for US$142 million, with US$42 million provided by IBRD, while the IADB
agreed to co-finance US$42 million and OPEC Fund for International Development (OFID)
US$39 million.
