Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY           FILE COPY
Report No. P-3086-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 1, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
$1.00    =   Y 1.53
Y 1.00   =   $0.65
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Summary
Borrower:               The People's Republic of China
Amount of IBRD Loan:   $100 million
Terms:                  20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 9.6% per annum.
Amount of IDA Credit:  $100 million (SDR 81.4 million)
Terms:                  Standard
Project
Description:          The project would assist the Borrower to strengthen
higher education and research in the fields of science
and engineering. The project would provide civil
works, furniture, equipment, specialist services, fel-
lowships, and other related inputs to: (a) increase
the number of graduates and the volume of research work
at 26 leading universities; (b) raise the quality of
graduates and research work at these universities; and
(c) strengthen management at universities and the
Ministry of Education. Since this would be China's
first operation with the World Bank Group, delays in
implementation might result from the Borrower-s
inexperience with Bank procedures. To help reduce this
risk, the Bank and UNDP have assisted the Borrower
in preparing specifications and tender documents.
Furthermore, the project would strengthen the capacity
of universities and the Ministry of Education to
implement and manage future development projects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                  Local    Foreign    Total
…-- ($ million) ----
I. Science and Engineering
Education and Research
(a) Enrollment expansion               -          1         1
(b) Teaching and research
development                       -          2         2
(c) Staff development                  -         19        19
(d) Physical facilities               82        131       213
Subtotal                          82        153       235
II. Education Management
(a) Universities                       -          2         2
(b) Ministry of Education              -          1         1
(c) Future investments                 -          2         2
Subtotal                           -          5         5
Baseline Costs                        82        158       240
Contingencies
Physical                                4         8        12
Price                                   9        34        43
Total Project Cost                     95       200       295
Financing Plan:                                 Government  IBRD/IDA   Total
Items to be Financed                   ---------    million)
Civil works, furniture and
associated professional
services                                  55         -        55
Imported equipment                          -       155       155
Locally manufactured equipment             30          -       30
Specialist services                         -          5        5
Fellowships                                 2         25       27
Unallocated                                 8         15       23
Total                             95        200       295



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:       Bank FY           1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
----   T$- m~ill-ion)------
Annual               5     30      40     60      65
Cumulative           5     35      75    135    200
ERR:                 NA
Staff Appraisal Report;   No. 3366a-CHA, dated June 1, 1981.
I






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan and credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance the
University Development Project. The loan, for the amount of $100 million
equivalent, would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 9.6% p.a. The credit, for the amount of $100 million equivalent
(SDR 81.4 million), would be on standard IDA terms. The grant element pro-
vided in this financing package, calculated on the basis of a 10% discount
rate, would be 42%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China:  Socialist
Economic Development" (No. 3391-CHA), is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The following section is based on that report. Annex I
contains a summary of country data.
Growth and Poverty Reduction
3.        China's economic system combines a largely urban and state economy
similar to that of other socialist countries with a rural commune economy of
its own invention. Within this institutional framework, development efforts
have been directed toward two main objectives: first, industrialization, and
in particular development of a heavy industrial base; second, elimination of
the worst aspects of poverty. Chinese development strategy has also been
shaped by two major constraints: first, an extreme shortage of cultivable
land in relation to population; second, a high degree of international
isolation.
4.        Despite these constraints  and despite some sharp policy oscilla-
tions, there has been substantial progress toward the two main objectives.
Industrialization has been very rapid, largely as the result of an unusually
high rate of investment, virtually all of which has been financed by domestic
savings. The share of industry in GDP (around 40%) is currently similar to
the average for middle-income developing countries. But because the share of
services is much smaller than in other countries, agriculture still accounts
for 34% of GDP and over 70% of employment, similar to the average for
low-income countries.



- 2 -
5.        Although by 1980 population growth was reduced to only 1.2% p.a.
owing to successful family planning efforts, population expanded at about
the same rate as in other developing countries from 1949-79. But despite
this and despite the large weight of a tightly constrained agricultural
sector, rapid expansion of industrial output (around 10% p.a. in 1957-79)
has caused national income per person to grow quite fast. With adjustments
for international comparability, per capita GNP appears to have grown at an
annual rate of 2.5-3.0% in 1957-79. This is significantly above the average
for other low-income developing countries (1.6% in 1960-78), though it is
well below the average for middle-income developing countries (3.7%) and has
not been high enough to pull China out of the low-income group.
6.        Because the system has been very effective at mobilizing domestic
savings (at 1970 prices, the marginal saving rate in 1957-79 was over 40%),
consumption has grown more slowly than income. In real terms, per capita
consumption is estimated to have risen at an annual rate of about 1.9% in
1957-79, but (because of a spurt in the last two years) at only about 1.3%
in 1957-77 - barely above the average for other low-income countries (1.2%
in 1960-78).
7.        Nonetheless, and although rural poverty remains a matter of
serious concern, China's most remarkable achievement during the past three
decades has been to make low-income groups far better off in terms of basic
needs than their counterparts in most other poor countries. They all have
work; their food supply is guaranteed through a mixture of state rationing
and collective self-insurance; most of their children are not only at
school, but are being comparatively well taught; and the great majority have
access to basic health care and family planning services. Life expectancy -
whose dependence on many other economic and social variables makes it
probably the best single indicator of the extent of real poverty in a
country - is (at 64 years) outstandingly high for a country at China's per
capita income level ($260 in 1979).
Adjustment and Reform
8.        Since 1977 there has been intense discussion within China concern-
ing both the ends and the means of economic development. Though partly the
result of political change, the debate has been fuelled by some important
underlying economic considerations. Future growth will inevitably depend
mainly on improving the efficiency of resource use, rather than on (as in the
past) massive mobilization of resources and fundamental institutional change.
The benefits of technological isolation as a stimulus to improvisation have
been overtaken by its costs in terms of backwardness and bottlenecks. And
the remarkable progress made in industrialization and in meeting basic needs
has not been matched by - and has created a demand for - a commensurately
rapid rise in general living standards.
9.        One focus of the debate has been criticism of the economic system.
Its record in mobilizing physical and human resources, and in reducing



- 3 -
serious poverty, is outstandingly good. But the state economy is inefficient
both in converting inputs (especially capital and energy) into output and in
matching supply with demand. Both problems have been aggravated in China by
the virtual absence of medium-term planning since 1958, by technical
weaknesses in annual planning and project appraisal, by the difficulty of
achieving an appropriate balance of responsibilities between central and
local government, and by prolonged inattention to such economic instruments
as prices and loans - all of which have been partly the result of political
turmoil. The commune economy, though fundamentally an efficient system,
has been periodically handicapped because it has not always received optimal
instructions from above and by dilution of production team autonomy in
production and income distribution decisions.
10.       These shortcomings have prompted a set of reforms aimed at provid-
ing lower level units with more freedom of maneuver, stronger incentives,
and better signals. Since 1980, a formal revenue-sharing system has given
provincial governments somewhat more incentive and opportunity to increase
revenues, reduce waste, and tailor expenditures to local needs. Many state
enterprises are now allowed to retain around 10% of their profits, and to
use this money to pay bonuses, improve worker amenities, and modernize and
expand their capacity. They have also been given a little more control over
what they produce; and the scope for private and collective production in
urban areas has been enlarged. To supplement and stimulate the state's
unified distribution system, the number and variety of commercial channels
has been increased, and joint ventures that cut across traditional adminis-
trative boundaries are now encouraged. The management of foreign trade -
which has been expanding rapidly in the 1970s, after virtual stagnation in
the 1960s - has been somewhat decentralized, and a number of initiatives
have been taken to expand exports.
11.       Linked with the diversification of commerce has been some increase
in the freedom of producers and traders to alter product prices. Several
moves away from the past practice of providing capital free of charge have
also been made: most notably, budget allocations for much fixed and
inventory investment are now in the form of interest-bearing loans. But
there has been little change in the wage and labor allocation systems. In
the commune sector, the role of the production team is being enhanced, and
the linkages between individual effort and reward are being strengthened.
Rural marketing arrangements are being diversified, and emphasis is being
placed on exploitation of local comparative advantage and on indirect
planning through procurement price adjustments.
12.       Though their implementation has not been free of problems, these
reforms are well focused on important weaknesses of the Chinese system
of economic management. There are four (interlinked) areas in which further
reform deserves serious consideration: the price system; investment
decisions; foreign trade management; and labor allocation. But without more
effective planning - of macroeconomic variables and major investments - many
of the prospective benefits of reform will be lost.



- 4 -
13.       It is now felt in China that too low a priority was given in the
past to raising living standards, and in particular that both the overall
investment rate and the share of heavy industry in production and investment
have been too high. The Government has accordingly taken steps to raise the
share of consumption in aggregate demand and the share of consumer goods in
aggregate production. It planned to reduce the share of investment in budget
expenditures, and to spend more on housing, education, health, agriculture
and light industry. Urban workers received promotions and bonuses which, in
conjunction with employment creation, raised the wage bill between 1977 and
1980 by about 50%. Agricultural procurement prices were raised by an average
of 36% between 1977 and 1980; this raise was only partly passed on to urban
consumers. Agriculture and light industry have been favored in the alloca-
tion of materials, fuel and power, credit and foreign exchange.
14.       In important respects, these measures achieved their objectives.
In the three years from 1977 to 1980, in real terms, agricultural output rose
by 22%, light industrial output by 44% (much more than heavy industry's
26%), and total net material product by 28%. Real consumption per capita
increased between 1977 and 1979 by over 17%, with a considerable further
increase between 1979 and 1980.
15.       In other respects, the measures were less successful.  The Govern-
ment miscalculated their effects on the budget and on the balance between
aggregate supply and demand, partly because it failed to achieve the planned
reductions in investment (both within and outside the budget). There were
large unplanned budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, coupled with strong
inflationary pressure that was only partly suppressed by the price control
system.
16.       This led in early 1981 to a switch in emphasis from medium-term
adjustmaent to short-term stabilization. Price controls have been stiffened.
On the demand side, the Government proposes to ease the pressure on resources
by slashing state capital construction expenditure from around Y 50 billion
in 1980 to Y 30 billion in 1981. Efforts are also being made to ease some
critical constraints on expansion of domestic production - most notably
energy and agricultural raw materials for industry. Inputs in short supply
are to be channelled to the most efficient plants, and the least efficient
are to be closed down, while the cuts in industrial investment are to be
focused not only on heavy industry (with the exception of energy and
building materials), but also on projects that would aggravate existing
shortages of energy and materials.
Prospects and Options in the 1980s
17.       The current problems underscore the need to restore and improve
economic policy making. But the need for better medium- to long-term planning
is especially urgent because the Government-s drive to improve living stand-
ards will, in the coming decade, be subject to a tight set of interlocking



- 5 -
constraints. Some of these are of long standing - agricultural land, foreign
exchange, trained manpower. Others are more recent - domestic energy produc-
tion and financial resources for new investments (which are being squeezed
between the Government's desire to reduce the saving rate and the claims of
an enormous existing investment program). In many respects, however, the
future looks promising: population growth is slow; better economic manage-
ment and system reform could substantially increase efficiency; and access to
foreign markets, technology and capital is much improved. The challenge is
therefore to harness this promise to ease the constraints on growth.
18.       Although aware of the difficulty of this task, the Government has
not yet determined a detailed course of action for the medium term (the next
five-year plan is currently in preparation, but unlikely to be completed
before late 1981). Key issues can be identified, however, in (a) population
and human resources, (b) agriculture, (c) energy, (d) industry, and (e)
foreign trade and borrowing.
Population and Human Resources
19.       Largely because it is already very low, the birth rate is likely
to fall only gradually from now on. But if the vigorous birth planning
campaign is continued, population growth from 1980 to 2000 can probably be
maintained at its current low level of 1.2% per year. This will ease
pressure on foodgrain supplies; it will be associated with a decline in the
relative size of the school-age population, which will permit improvements in
the quality and coverage of education; and in the 1990s, it could cause the
absolute size of the agricultural population to decline, which would widen
the range of rural development options.  In the 1980s, however, the
working-age population will continue to grow at nearly 2% per year:  it will
be difficult to provide a commensurate volume of additional productive
employment.
20.       In health and nutrition, the current level of achievements and
fiscal constraints together dictate a selective approach in the next decade.
Some general improvements in the health care system could be effected at
low cost; but the most urgent need is to consolidate the gains that have
already been made, and to extend some state support to the poorest rural
areas (both for reasons of equity and to strengthen the birth planning
program). In nutrition, efforts should likewise be concentrated on bringing
the poorest groups closer to the average.
21.       In education, the highest priority is to repair the damage done by
earlier neglect and political upheavals to the supply of high- and middle-
level technical manpower. The Government accordingly plans to double univer-
sity enrollment by 1990, as well as to improve its quality (see Part III
below). This should be supplemented by rapid expansion of the already



- 6 -
impressively developed system of nonformal tertiary education. The
Government also proposes a major expansion of technical and vocational
schools: but this will require improvements in curricula and in linkages
with prospective employers, and it will be slowed by a shortage of qualified
teachers. Planned improvements in the quality of primary and secondary
schooling are to some extent necessary for the expansion of advanced
education. But both these improvements and planned increases in primary and
secondary enrollment will, for financial reasons, probably have to be
stretched over a longer period than is currently envisaged.
Agriculture
22.       The problems facing agriculture in the 1980s are similar to those
in the past. On the demand side, foodgrain production and food security will
continue to require high priority, especially because the food intake of a
substantial minority of the population remains barely adequate. But
competition for land will be sharpened by the new emphasis on raising living
standards, which will require relatively greater supplies of both higher
quality foods and agricultural raw materials for light industry.
23.       As regards supply, the amount of land per worker has shrunk,
and some of the factors that have raised yields remarkably rapidly in the
past are unlikely to help so much in the future. The rate of expansion of
the irrigated area will be slower; there is less scope for switching from
low-yielding to high-yielding crops; and tight energy supplies will limit
the rate of increase in the use of chemical fertilizer and other
agricultural chemicals. Moreover, although there is no shortage of
machinery, there are only limited opportunities for using it to increase
yields rather than displace labor (although the latter might be desirable
where working hours are currently very long).
24.       On the positive side, however, substantial gains will probably
be realized through improved policies and management. Especially important
is the Government's present emphasis on stronger incentives and more
producer autonomy, on greater specialization of output mix in line with
local comparative advantage, and on agricultural research. Similarly, the
effectiveness (including the nutrient balance) of the large amounts of
chemical fertilizer that are now being applied could be substantially
improved through local fertilizer trials and soil analysis, while upgrading
of older irrigation systems and drainage programs in areas of salinity could
also significantly increase production. The scope for improving average
yields in maize and other coarse grains seems considerable, while average
wheat yields (considering that the crop is largely irrigated) are still
moderate; and for most crops, average yields could be raised appreciably by
advances in the technically more backward parts of the country. Thus,
output of grain could grow in the 1980s at 2.0-2.5% per year. Total
agricultural output should grow somewhat faster, probably at around 3% p.a.



25.       Measures to increase agricultural efficiency, growth of commune
industry, and even (since many of them are net purchasers of food) increased
agricultural prices will do least for the poorest rural groups, whose rela-
tive incomes could decline. To counteract this, increased state support for
poor areas is needed to promote the development of agriculture and nonagri-
cultural activities, and to provide more food and better social services.
This, like general increases in agricultural prices, could be financed in
part by progressive taxation of agricultural income or land. And in cases
where it would be cheaper than raising their incomes on the spot, the rural
poor should gradually be allowed to move to other areas. In addition, the
rural poor might benefit from long-term regional development plans: these
could address the special problems of particular localities, focus money and
manpower on them, and promote coordination among different government
agencies.
Energy
26.       The outlook for domestic energy production has recently deterio-
rated. Total primary energy production in the 1980s will not grow much
faster than 2.8% p.a., with the growth rate in 1980-85 unlikely to exceed
2.2% - less than one quarter of the 1952-80 growth rate. In the latter half
of the 1980s, there is more room for maneuver, especially in electricity
generation. But the energy sector is already absorbing over 40% of indus-
trial investment; and the capital outlays that would be required in the
first half of the decade to markedly accelerate the growth of energy output
in the second half, even if feasible in terms of specialized manpower and
equipment, would be so large as to crowd out vital investment in other
sectors.
27.       Prospects for economic growth in the 1980s thus depend critically
on reducing energy use per unit of output. This is doubly important in the
case of oil, whose availability for use as an industrial raw material will
also fundamentally influence growth prospects. Moreover, because agriculture,
commerce, households and transport are lesser users of energy, with
relatively limited scope for conservation and inter-fuel substitution, the
outcome will depend mainly on what is achieved by industry (including the
energy sector itself).
28.       Altering the balance between heavy and light industry in favor of
the latter has already contributed to a significant reduction in energy use,
and it will continue to do so until the middle of the decade. Of greater
and more enduring importance, though, will be cuts in energy use, and
substitution of coal for oil, within industrial subsectors - especially in
heavy industry, which accounts for about 60% of national commercial energy
use. Substantial savings could be obtained at negligible cost by minor
operational improvements. Further savings, and substitution of coal for oil,
could be achieved at moderate cost by limited equipment and technology
improvements, including the replacement of many industrial boilers. Beyond
that, major changes in some processes are called for; and in certain



industries (most notably metallurgy), it will be both desirable and feasible
to eliminate most small plants.
29.       These measures could very substantially reduce energy use per unit
of industrial output, at a capital cost far less than that of achieving an
equivalent increase in energy supply. But to accomplish this will require
thorough advance planning in each of the major subsectors, and the integration
of energy conservation with other aspects of industrial restructuring and
modernization. It will also require reform of energy allocation procedures.
And it would be greatly facilitated by changes in energy prices (especially a
large rise in the price of fuel oil), in conjunction with further reforms to
increase the incentive effect of prices on users.
Other Industrial Issues
30.       Industrial expansion in the next few years may be constrained not
only by energy, but also by raw materials, foreign exchange, and finance for
new investments. But in a broader sense, and over the longer term, the
performance of the industrial sector - in economizing on energy, materials
and capital, in earning foreign exchange, and in technological innovation -
will itself largely determine the extent to which the main constraints on
economic growth can be eased.
31.       Expansion of light industry is already being held back by shortages
of raw materials - industrial (petrochemicals and appropriate metals) as
well as agricultural. These could be eased by restructuring the metallur-
gical industry and expanding the petrochemical-based industries, while
substituting coal for oil to supply the needed feedstock. But the domestic
supply of agricultural raw materials and oil will remain tightly constrained.
Increased imports are thus both necessary and desirable. The situation
could also be improved by further reforms to give stronger financial incen-
tives to economize on material use, by eliminating inefficient plants, and
by shifts in industrial structure toward subsectors that are less raw
material intensive (most notably electronics). Economy in the use of indus-
trial capital will also be essential if sustained rapid growth is to be
reconciled with a reduced aggregate investment rate and higher investment
in nonproductive sectors.
32.       Given the shortage of foreign exchange, and the knowledge to be
gained from exposure to world markets, expansion of manufactured exports
must have high priority. The outlook is promising, given the abundance of
skilled low-wage labor and the enormous potential for economies of scale.
At present, moreover, China's manufactured exports are only 3% of gross
manufacturing output, and less than 6% of total developing country exports
of manufactures. But three fifths of China-s manufactured exports now
consist of products other than machinery or equipment sold to developing



- 9 -
countries or European socialist countries. To achieve rapid growth, China
must therefore increase its currently very small share of the richer markets,
especially in the OECD.
33.       On this basis, and provided that there is sustained expansion of
world economic activity and trade, China's manufactured exports could grow
in the 1980s at a real rate of about 10% p.a., and quite possibly 15%. But
this would require appropriate policies in China: exporters will need to be
given greater freedom to import materials and components; administrative
procedures should be streamlined; and, most importantly, Chinese producers
should be allowed to establish sustained and direct contact with foreign
buyers - not least to assist them in improving product design.
Foreign Borrowing Options
34.       Despite a real increase of 40-50% between 1977 and 1980, China's
exports - $18 billion in 1980 - remain only 6-7% of GNP. In 1980, energy
(mainly oil) accounted for about a quarter of the total, and manufactures for
about two fifths, the remainder being primary (mainly agricultural) products.
Oil exports will almost certainly decline in volume and could disappear by
the end of the decade, while slow agricultural growth will restrict primary
export expansion to at best 4-5% p.a. Thus manufactured exports will have a
critical influence: if they grow at a moderate pace (10% p.a.), total
foreign exchange earnings would expand in real terms by about 5% p.a. over
the decade; if they grow fast (15% p.a.), total foreign exchange earnings
could expand at more than 8% p.a. over the decade.
35.       The need for imports will be great.  Even if energy conservation
is highly successful, substantial imports of other raw materials will soon be
required to maintain a rapid rate of industrial growth. Pressure to increase
consumption and constraints on agricultural production are unlikely to permit
any reduction of food imports. And a well-chosen program of capital goods
imports could make a major contribution to modernization and the easing of
constraints on growth in many sectors.
36.       Faced with these constraints and needs, the Government is giving
serious but cautious consideration to the possibility of a substantial
expansion of external borrowing (as well as of direct investment and similar
arrangements).
37.       At the end of 1980, total external debt outstanding is estimated
to have amounted to only $3.4 billion, of which perhaps $200-300 million
was official credits, and the rest export and supplier credits, deferred
import payments and commercial bank loans. China has in recent years been
able to attract large loan commitments on market terms - about $14 billion in
officially guaranteed export credits, and a relatively small amount in short-
and medium-term commercial bank credits - although very little of this has
thus far been drawn down. By contrast, China's access to concessionary



- 10 -
official capital is limited. The cumulative total commitments of con-
cessionary official capital at the end of 1980 were only about $500 million,
with the largest amounts from the Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
and much smaller amounts from Belgium.
38.       The Government's external borrowing decisions will and should be
influenced by the terms on which foreign capital is available. One reason
for this is the need to keep the debt service ratio low enough to maintain
creditworthiness. With a moderate increase in borrowing (net resource inflows
in 1980 prices rising from $1.2 billion in 1980 to $2.7 billion in 1990),
moderate export growth would cause the debt service ratio to be about 10% in
1995, even if the terms of borrowing were on average rather hard (75% on
commercial terms). With high borrowing (net inflow of $6.8 billion in 1990)
on the same hard terms, and only moderate export growth, the debt service
ratio would rise by 1995 to 24% - well above the level of 15% that the Govern-
ment has indicated as an upper limit. But high export growth or somewhat
softer terms (50% on commercial terms) could reduce the debt service ratio in
the high borrowing case to 14% and 18% respectively - and the combination of
the two could keep it to 10%. These projections all assume that energy con-
servation is highly successful; if it were not, China's ability to service
external debt would be reduced, both because foreign exchange earnings would
be less and because a higher proportion of foreign exchange earnings would be
pre-empted by essential imports such as oil and grain.
39.       The other important influence on the Government's borrowing
decisions in the 1980s will be the value of the additional resources
obtained in relation to the real cost of borrowing. In the long term, this
is essentially a matter of the marginal real return on domestic investment
in relation to the expected real rate of interest on external debt. But in
the nearer term, in China's current situation of disequilibrium and adjust-
ment, it will also be appropriate to consider the prospective benefits from
fuller use of installed capacity (where this would otherwise be constrained
by the availability of fuel, materials and spare parts) and the damping
effects of increased imports on domestic inflation.
40.       Within the past year, the Government has addressed the relationship
between the cost of foreign borrowing and the returns to investment, and has
cancelled import contracts for several large investment projects - some
of which were extraordinarily ill-prepared, even in engineering terms. These
cancellations 'have caused problems with potential suppliers, and financial
penalties may have to be paid. Nonetheless, the apparently difficult
decisions to cancel ill-prepared projects indicate that the management of
foreign trade and capital may in future be based on economic considerations -
a change that should be welcomed by potential exporters and lenders to China.
Looking further ahead, some key determinants of the optimal level of China's
foreign borrowing, including the rate of growth of manufactured exports and
the efficiency with which capital and energy are used, ultimately depend on
reform of the economic system and improvement of economic management. But
foreign borrowing itself could contribute significantly to the improvements
in efficiency that are needed to accelerate growth in the next decade.



- 11 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
41.       The relationship between China and the Bank developed rapidly after
China's change of representation in the Bank in May 1980. In July 1980,
agreement was reached with the Government on the preparation of a major eco-
nomic study, which would assess China's past development performance, economic
system and future prospects to provide the analytical basis for Bank opera-
tions; at the same time work began on a limited initial operations program of
projects in education, agriculture, transport and energy to facilitate an
early commencement of lending.
42.       In late 1980, a large economic mission, which included sector teams
on agriculture, industry, education, transport and energy, visited China. Its
members travelled widely and received full cooperation from government agen-
cies at all levels. The mission-s report (including a main report, a statis-
tical annex and seven sector annexes) was reviewed with the Government in
May 1981 and is now before the Executive Directors.
43.       The findings of the economic mission and the initial dialogue with
the Government indicate that the Bank should pursue several basic objectives
in its economic and lending work. The Bank should assist the Government in
its efforts to: (a) improve macro and sector planning and investment cri-
teria, as well as the managerial and financial performance of institutions, as
part of the country's general effort to increase the efficiency of resource
use; (b) achieve better utilization of existing productive capacity and human
resources, and quick production increases, required for the adjustment of the
economy; (c) remove critical constraints to longer term development, e.g., in
energy, education and transport; and (d) import foreign technology, through
both direct technical assistance and project lending.
44.       Following the review of the economic report with the Government in
May 1981, agreement was reached on a work program for the Bank-s technical and
financial assistance in the next few years. In energy, the Government has
expressed interest in Bank assistance for enhanced oil recovery from existing
fields and on-shore petroleum development, coal mining, and power generation.
In industry, the Bank would assist in energy conservation, training, selective
rehabilitation of large enterprises, and the establishment of financial inter-
mediaries as channels for smaller scale investments. In agriculture, the Bank
would support irrigation, cash-crop development, training and research, and
development of credit facilities. In education, the Government has expressed
interest in continued Bank assistance in university development, and in devel-
oping general education through mass media (TV universities), vocational and
technical training, adult education, and teacher training. Finally, in trans-
port, the Bank expects to finance port improvement programs and might assist
in developing highways and inland waterways. In most of these areas, work on
projects would be preceded by economic and sector studies. The Bank is there-
fore planning a substantial program of economic work for the coming years.



- 12 -
45.       Bank project missions have worked closely with various line minis-
tries and provincial and local agencies such as universities and port author-
ities. In addition to the UJniversity Development Project, work has so
far been carried out mainly on two other projects of the initial operations
program: an agriculture project and a port modernization project. The
proposed agriculture project would focus on reducing soil salinity in the
lower Huang He (Yellow River) area through irrigation and drainage and
provide agricultural support services. Under the proposed port project,
container and coal terminals of the ports of Guangzhou, Shanghai and Tianjin
would be modernized and expanded to meet the demands of increasing bulk cargo
and container traffic.
46.       The Government attaches great importance to Bank assistance through
the Economic Development Institute (EDI) in the field of training. A major
training program has been developed by EDI with a Chinese counterpart insti-
tution. In late FY81, EDI conducted a general Project Planning Seminar in
Washington for about 30 senior Chinese officials, to acquaint them with the
concepts of investment analysis and the operating procedures of various
international institutions. A Project Planning Course will be offered for
approximately 30 mid-level officials in Shanghai in early FY82. During
FY82, five additional courses for senior and middle-level officials will be
offered by EDI and will focus on: power projects; transportation; national
economic management; regional development planning; and general project
planning.
47.       Progress has been made on developing the institutional framework
for cooperation between the Government and the Bank. The three main counter-
part agencies are the Ministry of Finance, the State Planning Commission,
and the State Capital Construction Commission. A high-level Steering Group,
comprising senior officials from the Ministry of Finance, the State Planning
Commission, the State Capital Construction Commission, the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, the Bank of China and the
People's Bank of China, has been established to coordinate all World Bank,
IMF and bilateral loan operations.
48.       A World Bank Division has been set up in the Ministry of Finance;
it consists of four offices and will have a staff of about 20 professionals.
A Loan Projects Office with five divisions has been set up under the auspices
of the State Foreign Investment Control Commission, to deal with Bank
projects and Japanese and other bilateral loans. Staffing has just begun.
The role of this office is to coordinate, together with the Steering Group,
project activities of the various line ministries and assist in developing
standard procedures (in such areas as project design, procurement of
equipment and contracting of civil works) for the implementation of Bank
projects.



- 13 -
PART III - SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
The Role of Science and Technology in Development
49.       The underdevelopment of science and technology has impeded China's
ability to utilize its human and natural resources effectively. Progress in
these fields has been limited and speradic duo to periodic reversals in the
Government's development policy. Technological progress slowed with the start
of the Great Leap Forward (1958-60) and was further interrupted by the onset
of the Cultural Revolution (1966-76). The latter, with its overemphasis on
self-reliance and discrimination against intellectuals, isolated China from
the outside world, with the result that in science and technology China is now
many years behind technologically advanced countries.
50.       China's long-term development objective is to make substantial
progress towards reaching the technological level of these countries by the
year 2000. While advances will be sought in several fields - agriculture,
industry, defense, and science and technology - progress particularly in the
latter is recognized as crucial to achievement of the overall objective.
Higher Education and Research
51.       Higher Education.  While primary and secondary school enrollment
ratios have grown rapidly in China and now significantly surpass those in
other developing countries (e.g., 47% compared to about 26% in secondary
education), the enrollment ratio in higher education has declined from 1.6% in
1958 to 1.2% in 1979. The corresponding ratio is 5% in other developing
countries. Neglect of the higher education system and political upheavals
have caused this decline.
52.       In 1979, undergraduate programs enrolled 1,020,000 students but that
year only 85,000 students graduated (an effect of earlier university closures
during the Cultural Revolution). Science and engineering programs have
enrollments of 70,000 and 345,000 students (7% and 34% of the total) respec-
tively; their output in 1979 was 6,000 science and 21,000 engineering gradu-
ates. The number of students in graduate education is much lower. Between
1949 and 1966, an average of only 1,500 students per year completed some form
of graduate study, usually a one- or two-year apprenticeship to a professor.
By 1979, 15,500 students were receiving graduate training.
53.       Education policy in China is formulated by the Central Committee of
the Chinese Communist Party in cooperation with the State Council. The
Ministry of Education is responsible for preparing annual and long-term plans
and coordinating higher education through control of curricula, textbooks, and
recurrent budgets. However, the day-to-day administrative responsibility for
higher education is divided among the Ministry of Education, various other
ministries of the central government, and provincial and municipal
governments.



- 14 -
54.       The 633 institutions of higher education in China comprise two
types: comprehensive universities, and specialized colleges and institutes.
To improve the quality of education in the short term, 97 institutions (15% of
the total) have been designated as key institutions and will receive a
relatively large share of resources. The key institutions are particularly
important in the fields of science and engineering. They enroll 45% of
science students and 66% of engineering students and produce 56% and 70%,
respectively, of graduates in these fields. They also enroll about 70% of all
graduate students.
55.       Research.  Policy related to scientific and technological research
is also formulated by the Central Committee of the Party in cooperation with
the State Council. The State Commission of Science and Technology is respon-
sible for overall planning and coordination of research. Administrative
responsibilities are carried out by various levels of government: central,
provincial, municipal, district, county and commune.
56.       About 6,000 institutions (including universities) and 420,000 staff
are involved in scientific and technological research throughout the country.
Around 1,000 institutions are considered key centers. The research centers
at universities serve the needs of faculty for teaching and experimentation
and, on a limited basis, provide services to other educational institutions,
government agencies and industry.
Issues in Science and Engineering Education and Research
57.       Two major constraints on technological modernization are:  an
acute shortage of well-trained science and engineering manpower, and the
absence of active research in these fields. There are three main weaknesses
in the ability of the present science and engineering education and research
system to overcome these constraints:  (a) low output in terms of the number
of graduates and the volume of research; (b) poor quality of graduates and
research work; and (c) the weakness in management of higher education and its
associated research activities. Accordingly, there is a pressing need to
increase the output of graduates from the system in these fields (as in
others) and to improve the quality of their education. The expansion of man-
power is necessary for, and must also be accompanied by, an increase in
China's indigenous research and development capacity in science and
engineering. The capacity of the higher education system to conduct such
research should therefore be expanded.
58.       Projections of high-level manpower needs indicate that China will
require an average annual increment of 27,000 scientists and 61,000 engineers
over the next decade. The present output of the higher education system
meets only about 20% and 35% of the estimated needs in science and engineer-
ing, respectively. The low output from the system stems largely from con-
straints on enrollments due to inefficient use of university staff and facili-
ties.  Teacher work loads are about half what they are in many other countries
and student/staff ratios average 4:1.  Inappropriate scheduling has resulted



- 15 -
in space utilization rates of 30-40% in China's universities, compared to
desired rates of 60-80%, depending on the type of facilities.  The low output
of research work in science and engineering is largely due to the neglect of
graduate programs.
59.       The poor quality of science and engineering graduates and research
work can be attributed to the inadequacy of teaching and research programs,
staff quality, and laboratory equipment.
(a)  Teaching and Research Programs.  Undergraduate programs are
inflexible and unbalanced; few electives are allowed within a major,
and there is little opportunity for specialization within a field.
At the same time, curricula place emphasis on lecture courses and
devote little time to practical work. Prior to 1980, there were
no formal teaching programs at the graduate level, and universities
had no coherent research programs. Most research was done on an ad
hoc basis in response to requests by the Chinese Academy of Sciences
and by industry, which are the major sources of research funds and
provide financing for specific projects in line with their own
needs. Applied research is often favored over basic research.
(b)  Staff Quality.  Only about 5% of the total staff have had six years
or more of higher education (compared to 50% of the staff of major
universities in other Asian countries). Furthermore, these better
trained staff average about 70 years of age and will need
to be replaced in the near future. The low level of training is
compounded by China's long isolation from developments in other
countries, as well as by the lack of opportunity for teaching staff
to benefit from progress made within China (due to the minimal
mobility of staff between universities).
(c)  Laboratory Equipment.  At the undergraduate level, too little
equipment is available and for some experiments in the syllabi,
none at all. At the graduate and research level, the equipment
that does exist was mostly manufactured in the 1940s and
1950s and is largely obsolete.
60.       The factors contributing to the low output and poor quality of
education and research are closely linked to weaknesses in the management of
higher education at both the university and Ministry of Education levels.
University management has limited capacity to schedule space and staff
efficiently, to keep accurate student records, and to maintain accounting
records or budgets on the basis of programs. At the Ministry of Education
level, weaknesses lie in poor collection and processing of education statis-
tics, in program budgeting and in evaluation.
Government Strategy and Plans
61.       The Government plans to increase the output and improve the quality
of higher education and research. Undergraduate enrollment is to increase



- 16 -
by 7% p.a., reaching 2.2 million students in 1990 and producing 4 million
graduates during the i980s. Graduate programs will increase their enroll-
ments to 200,000 by 1990 and produce 100,000 graduates in the 1980s. To
reach these goals, the Government plans to: (a) increase internal efficiency
at all higher education institutions; (b) strengthen regional universities;
(c) establish a system of polytechnics and colleges; (d) increase access by
adults to higher education, through greater use of educational television and
correspondence courses; and (e) strengthen education in the social sciences
and business administration.
62.       As a first phase of its plan, the Government intends to develop
science and engineering education at 26 of the key universities, selected on
the basis of the size of their enrollments in these fields, the strength of
their faculty and their location. About 75% of enrollment in these univer-
sities is in science and engineering, compared to the national average of
40%. Their graduate programs enroll about 30% of all graduate students.
About 7% of their staff have had six or more years of higher education,
compared to 5% in the system as a whole. Finally, they are located in major
cities or in areas where industry and commerce are active. Enrollment
increases will be accomplished by improved utilization of space and staff.
Quality improvements will be achieved by strengthening teaching programs at
the undergraduate level, introducing new programs at the graduate level, and
developing coordinated research programs.
External Assistance
63.       External assistance to higher education has been limited to minor
amounts since aid from the USSR was terminated in the 1950s.  Since 1976, the
major assistance to universities has come from the Federal Republic of
Germany, which provided DM 1.0 million ($443,000) of laboratory equipment for
Tongji University in Shanghai. Some multilateral aid is being provided by the
UNDP, while bilateral cooperation has primarily taken the form of fellowship
programs and exchange of scholars.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Objective and Scope
64.       The proposed project would support the first phase of the Govern-
ment's program to strengthen higher education and related research activities,
by helping to increase the output and quality of teaching and research in
science and engineering. It is designed to help overcome existing problems in
science and engineering education and research, as well as to rectify weak-
nesses in management at the university and Ministry of Education levels, which
compound these problems. The project would provide civil works, equipment
and technical assistance to: (a) increase the number of graduates and the



- 17 -
volume of research work at the 26 universities selected by the Government,
by improving utilization of staff and space, and developing graduate programs;
(b) raise the quality of their graduates and research work, by strengthening
teaching and research programs, improving staff quality, and modernizing
laboratory equipment through the development of 46 laboratory centers compris-
ing: (i) 20 specialized laboratories in various fields of science and
engineering; (ii) 13 analytical and testing laboratories; and (iii) 13
computer centers; and (c) improve management at the university and Ministry
of Education levels, by introducing better record keeping, program budgeting
and improved statistics.
Expansion of Output
65.       Staff and Space Utilization.  The project would help to increase
enrollment in science and engineering at project universities from 92,000 to
125,000 by promoting more efficient use of existing staff and facilities.
Teaching loads and space utilization are at about 50% of desirable levels.
The registrar's offices and relevant academic departments of five project
universities (i.e., Beijing, Qinghua, Fudan, Nanjing and the Huazhong Insti-
tute of Technology) would develop and test techniques and procedures to
improve staff and space utilization; specialist services and fellowships would
be provided under the project to assist the universities. As a result of
improved scheduling techniques, it is expected that the average teaching work
load would increase to 8-12 hours per week, and utilization of classrooms to
60-80% and that of lecture halls and laboratories to 50-70%. An understanding
was reached with the Government on the above-mentioned efficiency targets and
on implementation schedules for work by the five universities. An understand-
ing was also reached that if these procedures and techniques proved feasible,
they would be introduced at the remaining project universities to help them
achieve the planned enrollment expansion.
66.       Graduate Programs.  To assist in increasing the volume of research
output, the project would aid in the development of formal graduate programs.
Specialist services would be provided to help establish master's degree
programs in science and engineering, particularly in the specialized areas of
physics, chemistry, engineering, and computer science and its applications.
The Government and the Bank reached an understanding on two targets for
1984/85: that a minimum of 50 graduate programs would be established at the
26 universities, and that the number of graduate students at these universi-
ties would be increased from 6,000 to about 10,000.
Improvement of Quality
67.       Teaching and Research Programs.  The project would help improve
undergraduate science and engineering teaching programs, establish curricula
for graduate programs, and develop more coordinated research programs. Under-
graduate curricula would be improved to provide a more flexible and balanced
program. Curricula for master's programs would be prepared to comprise
lecture and research components at a ratio of about 3 to 1, and to reflect



- 18 -
specialities and strengths of individual project universities. A coordinated
research program would be developed to focus on a few long-term projects in
relevant fields. To accomplish this, the project would establish a review
commission of 20-25 Chinese experts, whose work would be supported by an
advisory panel of foreign experts, consisting of a chairman and four co-
chairmen in chemistry, physics, computer science and engineering. Each of the
panelists would visit China for an average of two months per year for four
years. In coordination with the Ministry of Education, the panel would help
identify and coordinate the work of specialists who would visit universities
and help develop curricula, especially for new graduate programs. The
services of the panelists and the specialists would be financed under the
project. The Government and the Bank agreed that the members of the review
commission, and a chairman and four co-chairmen of the advisory panel would be
appointed by November 30, 1981 (draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements,
Sections 3.06 and 3.07). An understanding was reached with the Government
that by December 31, 1982, the project universities would publish a booklet on
existing graduate programs in science and engineering and a plan for future
development, including research areas for advanced degree course work.
68.       Staff Development.  The project would improve the quality of science
and engineering staff at the 26 universities by providing 800 overseas fellow-
ships, totalling 1,250 man-years. These fellowships would last approximately
one to three years and would increase the proportion of staff at the project
universities who have six or more years of higher education from 7% to 10%.
Fellowships would be awarded according to existing government procedures and
criteria agreed between the Government and the Bank. Before departure,
fellows would be trained in the appropriate foreign language.  The fellowship
program would be managed by the Ministry of Education, with the assistance of
university departments and the advisory panel. The Government and the Bank
reached an understanding on the fellowship programs and on schedules to
implement them and to conduct foreign language training courses for selected
fellows. Assurances were obtained that candidates for fellowships and
training would be selected in accordance with procedures and criteria
satisfactory to the Bank and that the language training programs would be
implemented on schedule (draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements,
Sections 3.08 and 3.09).
69.       In addition, staff improvement would be sought by promoting inter-
university mobility for both staff and students. Accordingly, an understand-
ing was reached between the Government and the Bank that, by 1984/85:  (a)
5-10% of science and engineering professors and associate professors at
project universities would be exchanged for a semester or longer among all
universities; and (b) about one fourth of admissions for graduate programs in
science and engineering at a project university would be selected from among
candidates not studying at that university.
70.       Laboratory Equipment and Centers.  The project would also improve
the quality of training and research by providing equipment and facilities for
laboratories used for practical training in undergraduate courses and for



- 19 -
graduate training, research and services (i.e., at the 46 laboratory centers
that the Government plans to establish under its development program).
Equipment for undergraduate education would be installed in relevant
departmental laboratories; the Government is renovating existing facilities or
constructing new buildings to house the centers. The centers would be managed
and staffed by members of academic departments. Master equipment lists for
both types of laboratories have been finalized.
Strengthening of Management
71.       University Management.  The project would seek to rectify management
weaknesses at the university level by introducing new techniques and proce-
dures in scheduling staff time and use of facilities, operating libraries,
record keeping, and program budgeting. These procedures would be introduced
on an experimental basis at five project universities. Programs judged suc-
cessful by the Government would be extended to the remaining project univer-
sities. In addition, the administration of computer centers at 13 project
universities would be strengthened. The management improvement program would
be administered by the vice-president for administration, assisted by the
registrar and the senior financial affairs officer and their staff. Univer-
sity staff would be assisted by foreign specialists and fellowships for study
abroad. The specialists would visit the universities during the early part of
project implementation to help establish the experimental programs and
identify particular needs for study abroad.
72.       Ministry of Education Management.  The project would provide tech-
nical assistance to help improve the capacity of the Ministry of Education in
the collection and use of education statistics, program budgeting, monitoring
and evaluation, and preparing for future sectoral investments. Improvements
would be made in procedures for collecting statistics and in methods for
compiling and analyzing data; these benefits would extend also to secondary
and primary education. The Ministry of Education's accounting system would be
expanded to include program budgeting techniques similar to those to be
developed at the five selected universities. The monitoring and evaluation
capabilities of the Ministry of Education would be improved through technical
assistance. Also, to assist future development of the education sector, the
project would help prepare for investments by supporting studies related to:
the second phase of the Government's higher education development plan; the
establishment of a polytechnic system; teacher training, curricula and
instructional materials development; university training by means of tele-
vision; and agricultural education and research.
Project Management and Implementation
73.       The main responsibility for project implementation would rest with
the Ministry of Education. The Vice-Minister for Planning and Development of
Education would be in charge of implementation and would be assisted by two
recently appointed project coordinators. These coordinators would be



- 20 -
supported by the relevant sections of seven bureaus in the Ministry (Planning,
Science and Technology, Production and Supply, Capital Construction, Foreign
Affairs and the two bureaus of Higher Education). The Ministry of Foreign
Trade would assist the Ministry of Education in procuring foreign equipment.
74.       At the university level, development plans for each project univer-
sity would be prepared under the auspices of a senior management committee at
that institution. Details of the plans would be prepared by existing develop-
ment offices, assisted by the relevant university departments and by the pro-
posed advisory panel and review commission. The development offices would
also appoint all civil works and furniture contractors, supervise their work,
and be responsible for procurement of local equipment and arranging for
installation of imported equipment.
75.       Fellowships for university and Ministry of Education staff would be
awarded on the basis of selection criteria and procedures agreed between the
Government and the Bank. Administration of fellowships at overseas universi-
ties would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. Specialists
for improving the quality of science and engineering education and research
would be hired by the Ministry of Education in consultation with project
universities and the chairman of the advisory panel. Agreement was reached
that the Government would submit for Bank review draft terms of reference for
specialist services before signing contracts (draft Loan and Development
Credit Agreements, Section 3.02).
Project Cost and Financing
76.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $295 mil-
lion, including contingencies. The following are included in proiect costs:
(a) ongoing and planned construction to house project equipment; (b) locally
procured and imported equipment and furniture; and (c) technical assistance.
Cost estimates for civil works, goods, and services are based on December 1980
prices. The technical assistance costs for foreign experts, including sala-
ries, housing costs, allowances and international airfares, were estimated at
$7,500 per man-month and costs for overseas fellowship training were estimated
at $1,250 per man-month. The contingency allowance of $55 million includes:
(a) physical contingencies ($12 million) estimated at 5% of base costs; and
(b) price contingencies ($43 million) allowing for estimated price escalation
of 4% p.a. for computers and all local cost components, and 9% in 1981, 8.5%
in 1982, and 7.5% p.a. in 1983-85 for all other foreign procurement. Cost
estimates exclude duties and taxes on project-financed goods, which will be
borne by the Government. Recurrent costs generated by the project are
estimated at about $95 million per annum in 1981 prices. This would represent
about 1% of the Ministry of Education-s projected total budget in 1985/86, or
about 6% of its higher education budget for that year. Total Bank Group
financing under the proposed loan/credit would amount to $200 million (68% of
total project costs) and cover all foreign exchange costs. Retroactive
financing of up to $5 million is recommended for expenditures to be made
between Board approval and signing of the Loan and Development Credit
Agreements. The remaining $95 million of project costs would be financed by
the Government.



- 21 -
Procurement and Disbursement
77.       Civil works are in an advanced stage of preparation.  Local proce-
dures would be used and the Government would finance all civil works under the
project. Equipment items for the project would be grouped into packages to
the extent possible for bulk procurement. Contracts estimated to exceed
$100,000 each would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Local manufacturers would be
given the standard preferences in bid evaluation. The amount of equipment
contracts to be awarded to local suppliers through international competitive
bidding is expected to be small. Purchases estimated to cost less than
$100,000 per contract and not exceeding an aggregate amount of $20 million
could be procured through direct purchase under procedures satisfactory to the
Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.03 and Schedule 4, para. C; draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 2.03 and Schedule 3, para. C). It was
understood by the Government and the Bank that under such procedures: (a)
direct purchase would be used for proprietary items procured under contracts
directly negotiated with the supplier of such items. Direct purchase would
also be used when justified by the need for standardization or where the early
delivery of the items is critical to the timely execution of the project; and
(b) for other items, contracts would be awarded after obtaining quotations
from at least three suppliers and on the basis of comparison and evaluation of
the quotations so obtained. Assistance in installation, operation and main-
tenance of the laboratory equipment and in management of the centers would be
provided under the project by the proposed review commission and advisory
panel of experts. The Bank received assurances from the Government that
buildings suitable for installation of the proposed equipment would be
available before the delivery of equipment to the project universities (draft
Loan and Development Credit Agreements, Section 3.10).
78.       Award of contracts for items or packages exceeding $100,000 in
value would be referred to the Bank for prior review (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4, para. D; draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 3, para. D).
Equipment would be procured in three phases spread over about two years, the
first to commence in late 1981. As this would be the first World Bank Group
project in China, an understanding was reached that the Bank would participate
in reviewing award of all equipment contracts during the first phase of
procurement.
79.       The proposed loan/credit of $200 million equivalent would be dis-
bursed on the basis of: (a) 100% of the foreign cost of imported equipment or
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding; (b) 75% of the invoiced cost of imported
equipment procured locally; (c) 100% of the cost of specialist services; and
(d) 100% of the foreign costs of overseas fellowships. Disbursements are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.



- 22 -
Benefits and Risks
80.       Benefits.  There would be three principal benefits from the proposed
project: (a) the increased output of graduates and research work in science
and engineering from the higher education system; (b) the improved quality of
science and engineering graduates and research work; and (c) the increased
management capacity for administration and planning of higher education at the
university and Ministry of Education levels. In addition, the project would
lay the groundwork for further development of the education sector through the
support of studies and development programs.
81.       The increased output of high-level science and engineering graduates
generated by the project should meet about one third of China's average annual
incremental needs. The measures taken to improve the quality of this output
should increase the productivity of these graduates in their chosen fields.
The creation of at least 50 graduate programs and the establishment of
46 well-equipped laboratory centers under the project would increase the
volume and quality of research activities. Increases in the quantity and
improvement in the quality of science and engineering graduates and research
should, over the long term, enhance China-s capacity to use and generate
technology needed for development. In addition, the institution building
provided by the project should have the long-term benefit of improving the
overall operation of the education sector, as well as planning for future
development.
82.       Risks.  A major risk to project implementation would be difficul-
ties, especially in the procurement of goods and services, arising from
China-s inexperience in implementing a Bank project. To help reduce this
risk, the Bank and UNDP have assisted with the preparation of specifications
and tender documents. There is also a risk related to the implementation of
staff development programs and installation of laboratory equipment. Manager-
ial improvements may occur more gradually than originally anticipated. The
proposed large number of fellowships might not be effectively utilized due to
Chinese faculty-s poor command of foreign languages. To reduce this risk, the
Bank obtained assurances that the foreign language training program would be
implemented according to an agreed schedule (draft Loan and Development Credit
Agreements, Section 3.09). There is also a risk that laboratory equipment
might be procured before appropriate buildings were completed and, hence, be
installed in temporary locations. To reduce this risk, the Bank obtained
assurances that the necessary buildings would be completed before the
equipment was due to arrive (draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements,
Section 3.10).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China
and the Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's



- 23 -
Republic of China and the Association, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
84.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, respectively.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 1, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-  24  -                                                        Alnnex I
TANLC 3A                                            Page 1 of 5
CHINA. PEOPLE-S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA                              REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
LAND AREA (TNIOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/-
TOTAL           9591.0                                        lIOST RECENT     LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    3196.0                  1960  /b    1970 /b     ESTLMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA A PACIFIC
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)                        ..          ..           260.0            232.3                1136.1
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOQRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        650.1        500.2           834.6            499.4                1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   672865.0   815253.0          964505.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT Of TOTAL)      ..         12.0            13.2             17.3                  40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                              1239.1
STATIOARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                 1564.2
ZEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                           2070
POPULATION DENS IT
PER SQ. EM.                          70.1         84.9           100.5            153.6                 373.1
PER SQ. XM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       214.0        263.0           297.8            360.3                2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 ns.                                ..          ..            32.3             37.4                  39.8
15-64 IRS.                              ..           ..            63.7             59.2                  56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        ..          ..             6.0              3.5                   3.5
POPULATION GROUT! RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.0         1.9             1.9/c            2.1                   2.3
UUAN                                    ..          ..             3.0              3.4                   3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        34.0/d       33.6            17.9             27.7                  29.7
CYUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         10.87d       7.6             6.2             10.2                   7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..           ..              ..              2.5                   1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOKEN)        ..          ..              ..             20.4                  44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                ..          ..           120.0            107.1                 123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                        *-           *-           104.0/i           98.6                 112.6
PROTEINS (GRAHS PER DAY)               ..           ..            62.8             56.9                  62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..          ..            16.5             14.2                  19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MDRTALITY RATE          ..           ..              ..             14.6                   4.8
EALTH
LIFE EXPCCTAY AT BIRTH (YEARS)            ..          ..            64.0             57.7                  64.0
IFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 ..          ..            56.0             89.1                  50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..              ..             30.1                  45.9
ulum                                    ..          ..              ..65.8                               68.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..              ..             20.1                  34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..              ..             17.6                  53.4
Ug                                      ..          ..              ..             71.0                  71.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..              ..              4.8                  42.4
POPULATION PER PNYSICIAN             3009.8/d.  1709.1/           1162.1/          3857.7               6428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        2547.17i   538.8J5            4 _3_2          6411.8                2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               2142.5/d     737.8           699.2           1132.8                 588.5
DlBAN                                   *-          *-           172.1            322.3                 579.6
RILRAL                                  *-          *-           702.3           5600.5                1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..
NOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TQTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..
RUiAL                                   ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URUMN                                   ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
UkBAN                                   *-          *-
RURAL                                   ..          ..



- 25 -
TBE3AAneI
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. Of - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET   Page 2 of 5
ChlNJA                              RFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AYIRACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MDST RECENT      LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
'DJ-USTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIM:tW      TOTAL                    102.0          103.0           93.0/f           85.9                   99.8
KALE                                       .             .               94.4                  100.6
FEKALZ                                                                   64.5                  98.8
SECONDAELY:   TOTALL                                                 51.0             38.0/a                 53.5
HALE                                          -           .              34.67a                 58.4
IEKALE                                                                   18.0.7                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)                                                       3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHa RATIO
PRIMARY                                                             25.1              32.8                   34.2
SECONDARY                                               ..          19.1              19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                                          66.0             52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               ..             ..             ..              1.7                   12.7
CADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                              .                             35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                .                             .              3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                                                      .              14.6                  106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                                      .               3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        234602.4/d h  339960.5/h    403163.1/h
FEMALE (PERCENT)                                                                      29.3                   37.4
AGEICULTURE (PERCENT)                                               71.0              69.8                   50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                                                  17.0              14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    37.0/d         41.7          41.8              39.7                   40.2
HALE                                     ..             ..            ..              51.5                   49.8
FEMALE                                             .                     .              23.3                   31.1
CCONOKIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                                                0.9               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                         ..
RIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                        ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                         ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUJPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
ORBAN                                    .                             .             134.1                  248.6
RUAL                                                                   .             111.6                  193.7
CSTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..             .              ..               ..                  249.8
RURAL                                                                                   ..                  234.3
CSTDIATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOKE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                     .                                           41.7                   21.2
RUlAL .-                                                               .              51.7                   32.2
Noc available.
Not applicable.
OES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weightsd arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
mong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform; China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Esttiate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Latest estimate of annual growth of population is 1.22.
/d   1957.
/s  Including barefoot doctors;  /f Net enrollment;  /E Excluding traditional aedical doctors.
/h  Including military personnel and those awaiting permanent jobs, most of whom are in temporary jobs.
L    Between 1977-79 per capita supply of calories wee estimated to have increased by 16.52.
may, 1981



- 26-
Dnopouiwo of SOCI5L ImfICTou
Poica,  Altbhsb tha   t.r d.      - dce  floe cota.ae-raly isigo  t ci. -at aahltticatIctbc  It cbclt aic he cooed that thay WY mc ho. i.c.
Ctiseal  ocaPalahi  bccaaac of tin lack ot catardt.icad dcficitice sac   -.pt. .-a  hy diffare c..            ctt   c. 1.. clleting the data.  The duar.a  le  ic-
tec.. todd  to dacotheb  cigof cacaitda, tadiost.  Creole  act choltttic tells         ical caJot ditfc,ccae   hatsec  c-atiac..
The 1ctelanco grouP..?-(1 t. il -hea     ec-tly glcp of tbc cabjact ectatey oat (2) a teetty crop with aeo.cchat hi aba,-.. co ic taco..    the         IC. the  ee ly  oip
of tha subject t.-try (o-.Pt far ICapitcl gorpise Oil Reoprterc" gou-P Shale 9uS1ale o.-  Scrtb Atlica cod Riddle LaSt" 1c Che..c hotawe of ac-ros.
coto-attfa  at titca . X  the roalco  op data the a-alacc  -1  pplattie ceIghtad arithatc. eatf, totoah  Wicitatc  act ebow  017 ehc
ajotity ot the  oora  I.e A croa.  baa data tel that teticatat.  fIat. the ecoetaca at ecctoloc acea  the tsdcdtoatt  depoesd cc oh.  oaLahbiltty ot data
an   o  o  ui iot,  aotc    ta ho eactotand in VIctice a. Sor.nc  aof   taditatar tc aethat.  Tb... a-ar.ca  arc .. ely ..actal to Cooa-ts the ai  atso
LAPD AMA (thogato  a4q.h.l                                                                                  P.,ltic  o   scottal  ad" -   -ota. atac. cot total - FPopoltiso  Ittl..I
TŽ10± - Total atafaoat. r- piac   laso         t od    lolWe ct astat.                          othec. act r .tal) dildad by thiat -epeoctiro  .ebat of heapital bed.
AitiCeltural - latieatc at cg..ttc ..t.ta  arm   8 cotwicapraly or peteaseartly                 avat11hla Lc poblit act priocta ganra  and ape.Aill.ad hapital acWc
fut -toPa. potte.        kabt aod hitce roVdeo or tc tic fallow; 1970 data.                   hebtllttti.cocet-ta.  Ocopit.la etc cctcbiiohtaat  pe-oeactly ataffed
hry aloet    onC   phyafttis.  c-blichea-tc P-tidtcc prin1pipaly tuata-
Gc? PEt CAPITA CoSt) - GN  p  .. cpita caie    t tarret ethet ptitc  tat . -                      dial toL tct. oat icoloda.  Octl  hpta1             W-onr. ielade boaItb
talatot.  by  -Caca  caoctta  cache  -o Wotd  cabk Atlce (1977-70 boat.); 1960,                 acIaia   cnccotpoac tly  idta  by a phyatics. (hot hy a
190  act. 1979 data..                                                                           ocdca  Iatcto-   ooo  mttl., to....) ebiob offer it-pa.stictao
tattoo act Pronto a 11itod r..g.of at daical foilltiec.  F., ciatia-
DOIlY Cl9S9tTiIo PER CAPITA - Anacl con--ptice of Comototl.1 aercy (coal                          ttoai p-lPtoa   atba. heapitaic Lnola. WHOpi.        tslgea    heapitala,
ad hec7Tic  ptolaa        tccr   pa actI hydr-, moloat act cotheoca  ale-                      act t-ta  heepita4toa  atI totaI heapitalo act cdical aed Istareity
ttoc)Ic kiorc f cool aiactpet capita; 1960, 1970. AMt 1979                                  -tcaar.  ipertalced hcapitala coo icolotad only OSet ttotl.
data.                                                                                         Atdieciaa sat cocolta1 sotd - ToI1tala,bet at adelacose ta 01 itchLget1a
free heapitalo dfItcdd by the aMaat of hot..
PO7IILATItO ASD VITAL ITATIS:7ICOt
Tc,l Fiitul.tlo.  1-Ya           --ioeadpl - As of Jaly 1; 190,0 1970, -cd 1979             WSIOS
dta.                                                                                      AIcIcMoofooced ("Itaco  per hooet -  oa.ebao  eat   ..d 
UlbeePclalc(rcto  total) -  Sratio of ura  to 1.total popltiale                                 A          Ihochl ooC c.o     tuto   tilal   h   hr  itgpt?
tifflcocdfoto.o   to  ancac syt:ffcot toapetahihity of data                                   otd thci  aai  ecla   A Wealcoor  lotgor coy or   y oat ha laldat J.a
aso   rorc;1960, 1970,  o  17  dt,dh h. oahlIto   -tiafticcl polposec.
Fooltto  loatio.a                                                                       Avaae   aelo   oroa  a l    total. atb.t. ac  total - Alcta5c
Poculatlar to ocar 2000 - Cutocto popalatico pfjetis  ar   a4t   1990                         ha  of Ipiacs otbo   t   all t;_   c  ttlc-            aid o.eto
totl  opeatosby co act            Isano  thelt ctaiy  c  fertility1111  rolca.             daliga oapecti,ely.  Vtcolllcge onoidt  si.-p.act attctta dO
Probcotio.      I atm I_t fo  atiatdo rota. copt           hCo.ot. lr-al  atcee-            eooptcd Paltte.
icc life a           eatoc   t birth iootoaoiog vith t-uty'. per capita Jane             A....c to tlotlct,fot  (pcroet of teollecla-lotol or .O    totl.  -
local, cot Icaa110 aif  -yco taco  aabll  I  Ite 0077.  ya-r-  TOo Para-                   C.seoticta  tocill.t  with olactrICtt   intrn    oteC.  cc pornctags
soaact  otiy tl   l h.ra thra. ic...la eaccalo  dalios is                         of1 toa,oho,l    sat boa:-1deIlatcptt.
fsrtility aCeotI Igto             ..os   Icl acd Past f0 aly Plso,tc  psrtotao..
Oath  -ootyicthos ooatg.td ec  ef those cia.  bcchttotloo  of  -aoalty                 PUCiTIOc
act f-ttillty ttrot  ttd ro_f     lt  etoc                                               Adloacot Itrollcot Itto
Statinary  otcltieo    le    o"atotar  pepolatbee the,c i. acgrowh clan                it-raho               1 ca. cab  acd tec1i  - C.oae total, cala act fcoc
the hitch rtat   . cqeal to the dcath rate, act cle  thea.   o  t.Cto. o-crll_ct of all ego. at she prinory tacoS a.I ct.astgoef t..apoattoc
aatonto.Thi. is atblrcd only adtot fc-tility            d.0c  daIice to              poInty  cohool-at  popolati-s; odotalyloloTdI c   oh,IIltoo agat I-l
th  rpioos  ic-a  cf colt so  repracton. ra.,s oh. oah sceornta.                        ycar  but ctboorot for dif10 eo  lsgiha of Pliesry ctd-to.o; tot,
ci oec  rrlaoc Irfl  o-Ity.  TOo coaticay poP.ulatina.wo                                utico wit  dotte  adonatioc cetolcot my moect 100 por-ot
ocica   0the  ol  of tbo proJected oheo..Cotlaetio  of theppltadaa  ooppl   r  hbol ot eho. the offitil sch-o  aga.
is the yc-  2000, aod the rate of taut. of fAntility tats to roplat-                       Sooayace    totl, ala act fea1.-_C.p.tot 00 abs.;ccoey
_ot lend.                                                                                      dtcaio,  rqota  alottotynac of epttoa  pt1laoy i-tatrtLo.;
Too ttaoio cTayoalie  to  -crOd - Tho Pocr abc  atatias-y poplatios                             poi....     nt".Itatoa.- o .       tacohor trlni   ooiarotica tor poptib
Ic    c I boat toathat.                                                                       - cacaly of 12 to 17 ytoat of ag.; ttopocoasw eac. ga-ally
Porulattoc locolto                                                      coo~~~~~~~~~~lard,d
Per oq. ha. - Kidt-yoot populaoioo pat sqoro klloetat (100 hatat..e) of                      Vo.tulos_l atolontIo-ot of aosay                    ...ottiso_l i.cit.tul_
tota  ann; 1961, 1970 act 1979 datb.                                                          laicto occ.henl,iotatia.orote  prosoa   olhio   P..a.- tad.opMa
fa a. ha.  .Trinetuo .1Ilad- C.sputat a. ahoo  for aololotl  ad                              esly eac tsodpatoet. of  -           latay Istotio- a.
otly;. 1960, 1971 oct I197  doo.tPrl.ahronl .rnt. c   sott    Ioa  Itcso.  aoldh
6tyc...al, end rttrcd  Mi  yar  out . 01cr.) aa tproataeo  cIf el-yac  pops-                   c..p.d.iP,      lo-al.
Poaltos .twb (aP.isnao -           Aotl - eAcl anahCtocf totaolad-                       Ic  prorta0. at tota  Molt popobasiso can  13  sr  OS-  oot.
ycrppl_tn  tot 1911-Al,  960-70, OS 1970-79.
P,-,ato   tot  at  ornsl- urhan - Aecal roah ratoa of oro  pops-                           iO90'CPItO
l..2.tiao   for 195-0,196-0  at1970-79.                                                    Pacaosaar Care Coa  Ch ....cnltis   -  coen   rt  oatina  Wata
Crud. itib tt. ioa tbouat.i- tnd11.. birth. pat thssaotd of odd-7-a                    oasC     tin& baa thn    -ib   prcn  celtdm    al              h aonts  and
pCpg.tta; 1940. 1970. ant 1979 dat.                                                            ailitaty ochiale        'otcP
Costa Death SIc (rtbthocond  - toe  dtoath   erpo  tb-aaot  of elld-yea                 RodI Iaaraa  n  thoa-ed scalattal-  - All typso of toosooo far rast.
poolta;194,17.at17   aa                                                                 botatac  gonoral pablic  o  tbeeoad of papsUiata; nwiadcnce
toacsotdtts  Sat. - Ano-t. sahot of taightore a                 11.1 b- lh Ja  ilIoco...  tac lost... in toaioad in 7joar cOc  rgtoalt-Ioo of ratio
her nIsal rprodcntinaperiod if  t.9wcpetissccs prsoast  S.gspe.tt tota-                aats wa  in offoo;idata for ta         Pooyara cay oat he osaptcblc ais.
t'lltyratta  t,Aclly fir,1s-yea-a-ge  ceding ia 1960, 1970, OSd 1979.                        net cocoons.1aolahd licein.S
P_nI  lo -ltW  oatae    aa  ca .aoc   _ Aneal sae   fataor                                    Otcoor          r th-occ ...     cool- Orosrr dfc  brc...a  to..1
iaeil PltisC     tcotontoo olot tocac) - .            P        Sr.eag  of acoosa              is --oor.. sadi     Wycr  oa  raSiatr..ti_ of TOy Isac    scoat
all sorric led o  in coc  *c croep.                                                           neaioof "dailyasrc  intr--  cowpar. dcc' 4-Ins   op-tiodlo
puhblcatioc  ...otdt ptt.lily to -oor4to  goo.srolco.-    ItJ i -14cCidra
"Mc oND NUTRITIONt                                                                                to Oc 'daily~ It It opocr  so L 1_o  f_ot I_ns ao.
todac ef Food  nrtatia ro       pai. 1       1lio")  i- Ida  of per caPita cc.-.a            Ciss Ao...nI Attctd"ne pra  C-cltasot Yost - gaese Os theo.ota
proototo   llfo  odlltc                 odoco oI..     aaand cat foSd sot                    tias lcd dc-ioI the yPor  claldica  d                  Ccos   to  olo-is  in.
Jooo   r.0.1 ibaC atibloo and  nonn in aorlato i. (. tfe.  ott_i     -
to   r. eclotad).  Agtrocato prodottic  of nob coutr   to head cc..O 0
soioal  stoAs p-4,nc .prlr   igta  1961-41, 197D  otil 199dr.                              Toa FLbr on  Cthoeacdc) - Ono-al-oll  on1t- parcoa,islni
per day. Ansilablo aepplite  Conprias doseoto prodootlot, imports I..s                     oct  -caanble; 1960, 1970  t  1979 daa
nporso, act .-.ogoc  to oe.k  Sat eupplie. acoloI atintl food, o-ct,                     ?-ca. (tomato   - PF-l Loa  fern,sop .n.tc oe.f totl lohar fcrn..
qocctoatatd   food4 P.....loc  nod losc.c in d icrrlb.tJ.:. teor-                  Acrinloeo-tor-sol S- Lahr forco Jn ferelca. f-rosty, hntisg sad
Y      .t wr  cc-tiotd by FAG bot ... d haalgnl  ot for o..-I anti-                      f0 ioht   a.C ..n.lgoo t    otal lhoo1 forco; 1940G, 1970 art 1979date.
vInytt  hoaloth nca..itisoin  -oi-oon,ota1 operotoo  body oogr,saIdeoty(tnot- Labor rotc    aaoSg. aoaoeiit oaafatrnatl
ant a-  dl...ibotaos of popolatint, so  olleoln  10 patoCt for na,to a't                    act clo.ocr.tny, ocrst  otapocato.  ft.t.1ta  labor fo..co; 1960.
haoodIcoo; 1;.961-61,jl 197,  r  1977 dtac.                                           1970 act 197 9 data.-
P.rnait nrc   o  rootol Co..ro d.       , ..    Pratcis n....ta  of pot capita         PtnOainatCroCt)-tntl aa  O    cel  - Patniatc o
Oat aoppy nfodPcr day.  Nst auIpply of fond In dcforod a. ahoy.,  it-                      oniiYn.aoacptd aattI                        i.  c   co.leo   oo
qatoot  for all noCtias o h              dca  by USD0A troott  far n.icia                  ptna.... o..f tota, solo ond foc1l  popla1ti-co  all1 ocsa.c paniosli
ollocatc nt i  cram  of tosl         p    essrpr day act 20 gS.o  f oti-al oc               90.17.            97daa   Th.a. ac. bhadot ot; OaPaticopotlts tata
polo  pr hsc,cco h 10 gram  hboId bs  cooe   protcto   Th.c  sto.At                        rolnot   gonno            trs of the popelotI.t, ted I..f tins treed.  A
arda or. bootchoa theec of 73 arso of  .tota  proti  artJ..   23 grs  o                     o  .tnto    n f    ree-at-1a ..ooc.
atloal pPco.otai ctaIsa-ag. for tha acrId, pnopoaad by P40 to theThid                    Inosiet Dorpotdn, taIls - Ratio af population otdar  13 act 63 ot 001.
hand Fod  -ovy; 1961-45. 1970 cad 1977 dta.                                               cc  the total labor coo....
Forcaitaoncab crtlIfroe ocal.M 'olc  - Ptt .i. ..ro.  of font do-
niocI fne   oiaoat:oio   c  rc  par day; 1961 -65.  91901ott 1977 dat.                 tCOt ITI5T
Chldl macc; 1-41 Oottalto  La. foot theuca.t) - Anoaa doatho Pot theoca..  toL               The.olso   noia.  c   an   pprocInac  nasorcaf Por..rCy lotl..
ate creep  -i yraro,to nhild... to thia acs grop  to   c  do picgnun                     n  abouh t hd  ctonpraa oItch cotstctbIenattic.
trics data drnled Inc lhfc tobiac; 1960, 197'0 s;d 197  data.""                            Poonsto   nct   os(ohI   ohad bitt) - Ilacoload by olihest
1 ponnati. nihool 20 potent. porcat, 20 porcoot, cad pocrast Al pe.tce
trALTs                                                                                            ofbocboldo.
Llfa torat-on at SOrtO losara   A- Aota. otr of you. of  lf. tacaiolt
atbrt;19610, 1970 sod 1979 data.                                                     PMVOTOTARGT GR0OUP1
of ata ps. thou-c  hino :bitohe                                                               Absolute povorty iccoa .. iol Oa then   -- loom  lonol hl  chic  a cIti
Ann... ta Saet Water, C       Irt atrrf  t   talb,,he. atd rura  - et-                          Iottolydoqoata dial plu c.a..eIstia1 ms-foot roqireecoto ta oat
he   fPool itl.rbat   c  rua)r        _hnanooIs  esst ..           t                     fio-dabla.
water oottp1y ,(.Cinnitant -anonafaco  -cteo  or ost-onT, hCc cenos C di n                 cariet-d colatto- Povertl scsLoiCi  a   aio     ra   c  uo 
wais  coch, 00 chat ftc.   --Ilcla  orb- sls,1 spoiso..ctcttr   el)0                        cuateotr    ocryioe             Iao   iS' co-car "o')so  poMcPit
e....   ftbonootrappltea    Ic                       b. aor otarIaaul"c                porooI Ic-e  of its   -Coty.  Otbas loca  to deriost tree the rura
Mtelsai  an ctod'p-a  located act -oar  thac 200 atara ftoo a heoss mY heI  . irr                   ih adjootot far bichor Coa  of lric  to orbI.ca..ae.
coonidcrnd astint           h.  s clot so blaCh..a.c..r.     eac    trrlaoc                 eiaa   ouinc   lwIolasPoryIn .fo) Crrcrt)-  lb-
osnh.abI rcaa  molt leply that the hasocif. a s  aobo- at the hasshald                      ac  oa       tcc   f population (orbat odtna -.1)          crc  abnolotc
do co  b.v  . tep.cd a disp.opotti.onta Part of the day it fotchiAg the                       poor'.
Aceoo.to toooto teeca CnarP.Cnt of Ocoltis  tta. -rbac. cot rurl1
Oeoofpa la  otol. urban, ant rena) aenad by coreo  tiC..pooaI co
paooae IftherrCpniapotaics               ,orta. diapooI my lonloto
the cllacico act tia'pa...  oIt"   orwitho  troot.cot. of h-.oaottttoCoel  cod Sctial Gata Diviato
ant wa.ctl-watot by oso-a.  yto   rtaaoo   l   rvs   c   iiltcai                                                                       looadProbecti.c. Dopar-tn
"Pselsoic ear Ph-.lIIo  - Popola.iba  diridd by necta  of pran.ttciec phyol-Ke 9:
Per qaifc  free aT adinslpchel  at anocraic  lou
foualtro   uc     abo-Ppltist dIvc  by_ thr  fprodoc
caa a .ifcos  rdcs  eoo  prc Inaces  ac  aIsco  t..a...



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
CHINA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Growth at
Billion yuan at   Shares of       constant prices
current prices      GDP (%)      Actual    Projected
National Accounts                1957    1979    1957   1979  1957-79/a  1980-85/b
Gross Domestic Product          105.54  391.24  100.0  100.0        5.3         4.0
Investment                       24.43  121.72   23.1   31.1        8.5         4.0
Consumption (and residual
error)                         80.66  272.98   76.4   69.8        3.9         4.0
Foreign trade balance             0.45   -3.46    0.4   -0.9        --          9.6
Agriculture                       n.a.  121.28   n.a.   31.0        2.3/c       3.0
Industry                          n.a.  183.88   n.a.   47.0    10.27     4.5
Services                          n.a.   86.07   n.a.   22.0        3.37        4.5
Labor Force, 1979                    Millions              %
Agriculture                             288.1              71
Industry                                 69.0              17
Services                                 48.7              12
Total                                   405.8             100
Government Finance
(billion yuan)                           1957            1978            1979
Total revenue                            31.0           112.1           110.3
Total expenditure                        30.4           111.1           127.3
of which fixed investment              12.4            48.9            55.8
Budget surplus/deficit                    0.6             1.0           -17.0
Prices (1950 = 100)                      1957            1978            1979
Retail price index                      121.3           131.5           134.0
Agricultural procurement
price index                          146.2            217.4           265.5
Exchange rate (Y/US$)                   2.462           1.661           1.541



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Projected
Balance of Payments ($ billion)   1977            1978         1979         1985 /e
Exports, f.o.b.                      8.1          9.7          14.0          22.9
Imports, c.i.f.                    -7.6        -11.4          -17.3         -27.6
Trade balance                      0.4        -1.7           -3.3          -4.7
Current account balance /d           0.9        -0.4           -1.5          -1.9
Capital account                     -0.4        -0.3            2.2           1.9
Overall balance (deficit -)          0.5        -0.8            0.7            -
Projected
Composition of Exports (%)           1977         1978          1979          1985/e
Energy                               n.a.          13.8         19.5         17.5
Other primary products               n.a.         39.7          34.1         29.7
Manufactures                         n.a.         46.5          46.4         52.8
Projected
Composition of Imports (x)           1977         1978          1979         1985/e
Machinery and equipment              17.7          17.5         25.2 )       82.3
Raw materials                        58.4         63.9          56.1 )
Food and consumer goods              23.9         18.6          18.7         17.7
External Debt Outstanding                                                  Projected
($ million, end-year)               1977         1978        1979            1985/f
Official                             n.a.        n.a.       200-300          n.a.
Other                                n.a.        n.a.    3,100-3,200         n.a.
Total                                n.a.        n.a.        3,400         14,500
/a 1970 prices.
/b 1979 prices.
/c Net material product.
7¶ Includes official transfers.
7e 1980 prices.
77 1985 prices.
Note: Data in this table generally adjusted to be consistent with Western
accounting conventions. For details, see Annexes A and H of China:
Socialist Economic Development (Report No. 3391-CHA).



- 29 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of June 1, 1981)
None.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of June 1, 1981)
None.
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
None.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project        : Five months
(b)  The project was prepared by : The Government and the Bank
(c) Date of first mission to
consider the project       : August 1980
(d)  Appraisal mission             : November 1980
(e)  Completion of negotiations  : May 1981
(f) Planned loan/credit
effectiveness                 September 1981
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The Borrower's State Council shall have approved the Loan and
Development Credit Agreements.
(b) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan and
Development Credit Agreements shall have been fulfilled (a cross-
effectiveness provision).
B.  Other Conditions
(a) The Borrower shall establish not later than November 30, 1981, and
thereafter maintain until the Closing Date, a review commission
consisting of Chinese experts in science and engineering.  The
commission will assist and coordinate the development of teaching
and research programs and advise on the installation, operation and
maintenance of equipment (para. 67).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)  The Borrower shall establish, not later than November 30, 1981,
and thereafter maintain until the Closing Date an advisory panel
of foreign experts, which will assist and advise the project
universities and the review commission (para. 67).
(c) The Borrower shall select candidates for fellowships and
training in accordance with agreed procedures and criteria, and
establish and carry out foreign language training for selected
fellows in accordance with the agreed program (paras. 68 and 82).
(d) The Borrower shall ensure that buildings suitable for installation
of the proposed equipment will be completed prior to the delivery
of the equipment to the project universities (paras. 77 and 82).






IBRD15662 R
LIST OF UNIVERSITIES TS BE STRENGT.  EDE                                                                       OI0                                                                o                                                       R
20.eoileofoog Unoerelfy                SO0V         I  ET        U   N   I0   N                                                                        '
HS  S u h   Ih o   -n e 1o f   o f  T e d oh - y,10                                          .                                                                        1-
EWu.ou,oeCh- N-  KU'h                                                                                                                                                                          7
2N liehmo J-oet,toeo RhoonI 
C.   S                                                                              I                             (~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Mo-o tet,O-fe ofTohoo                                                                                                                                                                    J-" ,~ 
lI/®yUoIo-te             IM O0                                                              N    G    0      L    I   A                                                  0 26 
2/Beo,N-1dIdoSo                                                                                                                                                                 J 1c.®.
2.,1A,-goo,I-Uon.y/-                                                                                                                                                           iLI
20 iIIM ooRER~    AFHA   /TA                                                                             NEA MG/ND                                                                   N]
OI~~~~~~ AFGHANISTAN                                                                                        <I-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  -   /b   y  GAN
--  ti-  \  NFl      MUNI200L                    2~~~~~~~2 SIN<21     -  3Z.            i       ,EORE- Ce
N-  /                            K   ~~~~~~Ar0  ~~~~~~DS                        PV#tYANU~~~~~~~~I®SEDUL    ~ ~ ~~~~~STDE2'
>0)                                                            N                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22
E I E                            OF~~~~~~~~~~R KUREL
'S ~~~~~~~~~~                                                     N                                              \osso;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?   I  .> M  
~~- r  -                                                                                               "pStGXIA,                                    sHA/V 
E4~~~~~~~I       SASBN
0~~~~~~~~~~~                                                           K                  -'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~SSAAP/'X '  _i
N                         N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            "-v-S                         A~~~~~~~~~~~HN     )I NSL
z v  ~ ~    ~     S/AG~                                                                                                        -AN   vs/I/          o
A                                                                                                                                           NIIC- UA 
000  \itI                                                                                *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c0~~~o 2  > v           ;~zEUNIVERSITY   DEVELOPMENT' PROJEC-T,7
B oHUTAN                             C                                                      I  I' HUA NI1  UJIA                                                 iiJyo   doao
G K       U _  SIZ IIIII  I                                                                     rorqI  qtdre
~~~~~~~~~~~~  J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
p  DV  A   51                                            G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IUAINO G 0I/
p'                          ---. -.--- ~~~~~~~~~~~          '~~~NJ~~~ifllN KUNS,UI.
BU R MA    C                  '                                                                                                          4\
it  \NN  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  <5 ~~~~~~KILOMET ESS I                                                       r 
LAO PEOPLE                                             o           tl              Sspof.pelb®erfOEfe                    04Elt#ll
'N                       ~~~~~~~REPUBLIC  _VIE   NAM                                 a2.ReoIDelReoaO*otwlooo*rRiyaoO
T H A I L A N N ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo.ooFol Mottoto



