CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1167 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(University Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 4, 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1167 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 4, 1981, betwee- PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Asscciation to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank)
to provide financing assistance towards the financing of the
Project in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to one hundred
million dollars ($100,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan) on
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Bank; -
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower
and any successor thereto; and
(b) "Project Universities" means the universities and
institutions listed in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to eighty-one million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 81,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association-shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1


﻿-3-
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1991, and ending June 1,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payqble
on June 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States (' America
is hereby specified fur the purposes of Section 4,02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in c;_,ormity
with appropriate administrative, educational and financial prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the puri.ose.
Section 3.02.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provisions for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insur-
ance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
,Lequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding fts cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such inform-
ation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event no, later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution
and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Association of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish, not later than
November 30, 1981, and thereafter maintain until the Closing Date,


﻿-5-
a Review Commission, within MOE, with terms of refefence sati3fac-
tory to the Association, to assist in and to coordinate the
development of science and engineering education and research at
the Project Universities, and to advise on the installation,
operation and maintenance of equipment by the Project Universi-
ties.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall establish, not later than
November 30, 1981, and thereafter maintain until the Closing Date,
an Advisory Panel, within MOE, consisting of experts and with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to assist and
advise: (i) the Project Universities concerning their respective
Parts of the Project; and (ii) the Review Commission in its
work.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall select candidates for the
fellowships and training provided under the Project in accordance
with such procedures and criteria of selection as shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
fellowships provided under the Project, establish and carry out
foreign language training for selected fellows, in accordance with
programs satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that the equipment
to be procured under the Project shall be installed in buildings
which are suitable for the purpose, and that such buildings shall
be available prior to the delivery of the respective equipment
to be installed therein.
Section 3.11. So long as any part of the Loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement shall remain outstanding, all action
taken, including approvals given, by the Bank pursuant to any of
the Sections of, and Schedules to, the Loan Agreement, shall be
deemed to be taken or given in the name and on behalf of the
Bank and the Association; and all information or documentation,
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to the provisions
of any such Sections of the Loan Agreement or Schedules thereto,
shall be deemed to be furnished to both the Bank and the Associa-
tion.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall operate and maintain or
cause to be operated and maintained, the facilities and equipment
included in the Project in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and educational policies and practices,
and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed
sufficient funds, services and other resources for such purposes.
ARTICIE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower's State Council shall have approved the
Project and the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement,
shall have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Borrower's State
Council has approved the Project and the Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The date February 4, 1982 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec on
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which this Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANMIN                           22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused


﻿-8-
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By Is/ Chai Zemin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed SDR       Expenditures
Category                Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Equipment                63,080,000         100% of foreign
and spare                                  expenditures,
parts                                      100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory) and
75% of local
expenditures for
imported goods
(2) Specialist                2,030,000         100%
services
(3) Fellow-                  10,170,000         100% of for-
ships and                                  eign expen-
Training                                   ditures
(4) Unallocated               6,120,000
TOTAL               81,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $5,000,000 from the Credit and Loan, may be made in respect of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 23,
1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting


﻿- 11 -
or limiting any other right, power or remedy or of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
strengthening higher education in the fields of science and
engineering. It consists of the following:
Part A:   A program to increase the number and improve the
quality of graduates and to increase the volume and
improve the quality of research at the Project Univer-
sities through the provision of buildings, furniture and
equipment, specialist services, fellowships, training
and other related inputs required.
Part B:   A program to strengthen planning and management capabi-
lities of the Project Universities and MOE through
provision of equipment, specialist services, fellow-
ships, training and other related inputs required.
Part C:   Preparation of future investments in the education
sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide,the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the People's Republic of China may be granted a margin of prefe-
rence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 14 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the People's Republic of China if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in
the People's Republic of China equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 15 -
C,   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for items costing less than $100,000 equivalent
per contract may be procured through direct purchase in accor-
dance with procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided
all such contracts shall not in the aggregate exceed $20,000,000
equivalent under the Credit and the Loan.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment costing $100,000
equivalent or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with 'a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report of the bids
received, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and stat the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of suc(h
contract.


﻿- 16 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it.
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Project Universities
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the following shall be Project Unversities participating in
the Project:
Sichuan University, Chengdu
Chongqing University, Chongqing
Xian Jiaotong University, Xian
Lanzhou University, Lanzhou
Zhongshan University, Guangzhou
South China Institute of Technology, Guangzhou
Wuhan University, Wuhan
Huazhong Institute of Technology, Wuhan
Fudan University, Shanghai
Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai
East China Normal University, Shanghai
Nanjing University, Nanjing
Nanjing Institute of Technology, Nanjing
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou
University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei
Xiamen University, Xiamen
Shandong University, Jinan
Beijing University, Beijing
Qinghua University, Beijing
Beijing Medical College, Beijing
Beijing Normal University, Beijing
Beijing Agricultural University, Beijing
Nankai University, Tianjin
Tianjin University, Tianjin
Dalian Institute of Technology, Dalian
Jilin University, Changchun


