CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 231 NIR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Construction Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 29, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 231 NIR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Construction Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 29, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 1971, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement dated June 24, 1964,
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association granted to the Borrower
a development credit in various currencies equivalent to one million five hundred
thousand dollars ($1,500,000) to assist the Borrower in financing a project for
the design, improvement and construction of certain roads in the Borrower's
national highway system;
WHEREAS      by   a   second  development   credit  agreement  dated
September 23, 1968, between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
made available a development credit in various currencies equivalent to six million
one hundred twenty thousand dollars ($6,120,000) to assist in financing capital
expenditures of the four-year Highway Maintenance Program and preinvestment
studies;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to finance part of
the costs of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "1964 Development Credit Agreement"
means the Development Credit Agreement (Road Project) between the Borrower
and the Association dated June 24, 1964.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($5,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than consultants' services) required for the Project and to be financed
out of the nroceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1974 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.


﻿5
9
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
January 15    and   July 15   commencing     January 15, 1981    and   ending
July 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
July 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Direction
des Travaux Publics, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound engineering, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as n-.eded, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section  3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the supervision of
*        construction of Part A (i) and (ii) of the Project and in the carrying out of Parts
B (i) and (ii) and C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering
consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Tinkim-Nigerian border road section included in Part
A (ii) of the Project shall not be constructed unless and until the Borrower shall
have received notice from the Association, on or before December 31, 1972, that
the Association is satisfied that appropriate arrangements have been made for the
construction of the road between Kano, Nigeria, and the Borrower's border. After
such date, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the construction of such
road section shall be deleted from the Project.
(b)   The design standards to be used for the road sections (other than the
Tinkim-Dan Tyao road section) included in Part A (i) and (ii) of the Project shall
be those set forth as Standard "A1 " in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the
design standards to be used for the Tinkim-Dan Tyao road section included in
Part A (ii) of the Project shall be those set forth as Standard "B" in such Schedule
4; provided, however, that if, pursuant to paragraph (a) hereof, the Tinkim-Nigerian
border road section shall not be constructed, the design standards to be used for


﻿6
9
the Magaria-Tinkim road section included in Part A (ii) of the Project shall be
those set forth as Standard "A2 " in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   In carrying out Part A (i) and (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents, and work
and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land, rights-of-way and other property
rights as shall be required for carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting


﻿7
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
its Direction des Travaux Publics and of any other departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times adequately maintain or cause
to be adequately maintained the roads included in the Project and all other roads
in its national highway system, in accordance with sound engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be reasonably
required to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using the roads
in its national highway system will not exceed limits consistent with the design
standards of such roads.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall collect and record in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures such technical, economic and
financial data as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of maintenance,
improvements and extension of its national highway system.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall consult the Association, on or before
December 31, 1971, on a program for staffing its Direction des Travaux Publics
with adequately trained nationals of Niger, and shall review annually with the
Association the progress accomplished under such program.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the Borrower's Direction des Travaux Publics and of any other
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic


﻿8
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of its Direction des Travaux Publics and of any other departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at


﻿9
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has
employed the construction supervision consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date April 15, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. (a) The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 and
4.05 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
*        Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date ten years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
(b)  The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
(c)  The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 (g) and 4.05 of
the 1964 Development Credit Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the 1964 Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Public Works of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿10
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Travaux Publics
Niamey
Republic of Niger
Cable address:
Ministravo
Niamey
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ Joseph Amina
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in           % of Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
I.    Civil works                   3,700,000            70% of total expendi-
tures
II.   Consultants' services           900,000            80% of total expendi-
tures (representing
the estimated foreign
expenditure component)
III.  Equipment and materials          50,000            100% of foreign ex-
penditures
IV.   Unallocated                   1,050,000
TOTAL         5,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another member
of the Bank in the territories of which goods are produced or from the territories
of which services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or
services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and


﻿12
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if,the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
II shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    (i)        construction and improvement of the Niamey-Tillabery road
(about 115 km);
(ii)       construction and improvement of the Magaria-Tinkim-Nigerian
border road (about 20 km) and of the Dan Tyao-Tinkim road
(about 14 km);
B.    (i)       feasibility study of the construction and improvement of (a) the
Niamey-Baleyara road (about 98 km) and (b) of the
Zinder-Band6 road (about 72 km);
(ii)       detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents for
the construction and improvement of the roads referred to in
Part B (i) above, provided that the economic justification thereof
shall have been confirmed to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association; and
*        C.              provision of laboratory and traffic counting equipment and
training of laboratory inspectors and technicians.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1974.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works, equipment or materials estimated
to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to pre-qualify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
pre-qualification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the Borrower's intended award. The Association
shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any objection to the intended
award on the ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03
of this Agreement or with the Development Credit Agreement, and shall state the
reasons for any objections it may have.
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable
objection, or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
0
(e)   Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works, equipment or materials,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower if
it finds that the award of the contract is not consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03
of this Agreement or with the Development Credit Agreement and, in such event,
no expenditure under such contract shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
Pavement        Shoulders       Pavement
Width           Width          Crossfall
m               m               %             Surfacing
Double bituminous
Standard "A,"   6.00            1.00            2.0        surface treatment
Standard "A2"   6.00            1.00            3.0        Gravel
Standard "B"    5.00            1.00            3.0        Gravel


