                      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                                                                                                                         86614
                               International Development Association
                                  International Finance Corporation
                             Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                  CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                               EDS97-492
                                                                                                                         December 22, 1997


    Board Meeting of December 23, 1997
    Statement by Sun Vithespongse

                                     Cape Verde: Country Assistance Strategy and
                                     Economic Reforms Support Operation Credit

    1.     We welcome this opportunity of discussing CAS document and Economic Reforms
    Support Operation Credit to Cape Verde. We commend the staff for preparing this candid,
    frank and informative document. We would also like to congratulate the government and the
    people for successfully emerging Cape Verde as one of the top performers of the Sub-Saharan
    Africa Region in socio-economic development. Nevertheless, Cape Verde has enormous
    upfront socio-economic problems such as poverty, unemployment, food security, huge stock of
    debt, etc., which need immediate plan of action. Cape Verde needs support from the
    donor/lender communities in its efforts to integrate the country into the world economy. We
    appreciate the government’s vision and economic reform program as outlined in the National
    Development Plan (NDP). However, as rightly stated in the CAS document, NDP’s strategy in
    the public investment and the public/private partnership issue have to be carefully reassessed.

    2.    We also support the Bank Group’s strategy and the assistance program as proposed in
    the CAS. However, I have a few comments:

             First, the CAS recognizes the difficult physical environment and underdeveloped
    infrastructure in Cape Verde, and the government has given priority to this sector, but the
    Bank’s strategy does not offer any kind of intervention in this sector. I would appreciate staff’s
    clarification on this.

           Second, I would also appreciate staff’s clarification on the CAS’s assumption of near
    future government savings which, I believe, seem over optimistic in the light of huge
    government debt and borrowings.

           Third, I would also like to hear from the staff on the magnitude of vulnerability of
    remittances.

          Finally, we support the credit in the amount of SDR 21.80 million to the Republic of
    Cape Verde for an Economic Reforms Support Operation.


The electronic version of the document is provided for convenience. (The official record is the version printed by the Corporate
Secretariat). This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                     2




The electronic version of the document is provided for convenience. (The official record is the version printed by the Corporate
Secretariat). This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
