Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3027 CV
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Reforms Support Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 3, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3027 CV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 3, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated November 1, 1997 from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made"; 
(b)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement";
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions; 
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
"(c)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit"; and 
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“ARCA VERDE” means Companhia Nacional de Navegação Arca Verde, the 
Borrower’s national maritime company, established pursuant to Decree No. 38/78 of 
April 29, 1978; 
(b)
“ASA” means Empresa Nacional de Aeroportos e Segurança Aérea, the 
Borrower’s national company for airports and air traffic safety, established pursuant 
to Decree No. 144/83 of December 31, 1983; 
(c)
“Central Bank” means Banco de Cabo Verde, the Borrower’s central bank, 
established and operating under the Decree-Law No. 42-93 of July 4, 1993;
(d)
“CORREIOS” means Correios de Cabo Verde, the Borrower’s postal services, 
established pursuant to Decree-Law No. 9-A/95 of February 16, 1995; 
(e)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(f)
“EMPA” means Empresa Pública de Abastecimento, the Borrower’s public 
procurement company, established pursuant to Decree-Law No. 7-G/75 of September 10, 
1975; 
(g)
“First Tranche” means the tranche referred to in Category (1) of  the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the 
Page  3
Association on or after the Effective Date; 
(h)
“INTERBASE” means Empresa de Comercialização de Produtos do Mar, the 
Borrower’s public company for commercialization of fisheries, established pursuant to 
Decree No. 22/87 of March 18, 1987; 
(i)
“PIP” means the Borrower’s three-year rolling public investment program 
and financing plan covering the years 1998 to 2001; 
(j)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower by letter agreement dated July 28, 1997;
(k)
“Second Tranche” means the tranche referred to in Category (2) of  the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the 
Association on or after the date on which the conditions referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been met; and 
(l)
“SITC” means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the 
SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in the Central 
Bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Page  4
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15, commencing April 15, 2008 and ending October 15, 2037.  
Each installment to, and including the installment payable on, October 15, 2017 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. The Central Bank is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
Page  5
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economic Coordination of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Coordination
C.P. 30
Praia, Cabo Verde
Cable address: 
Telex:
608 MCECV
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Page  6
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By /s/ Manuel da Silva Matos 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
and Excluded Expenditures
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Schedule, the table 
below sets forth the amounts allocated to expenditures in support of the Program to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Deposit Account in support of 
the Program:
Amount of the Credit 
% of
Allocated (Expressed 
   Expenditures
in SDR Equivalent)
  to be Financed
(1)
First Tranche
10,170,000
  100%
(2)
Second Tranche
10,900,000
  100%
(3)
Refunding of the
   730,000
  Amount due pursuant to
Project Preparation
  Section 2.02 (c) of this
Advance
  Agreement
__________
TOTAL
21,800,000
2.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance any of the following expenditures: 
(a)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(b)
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or credit; or
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of 
the SITC:
Page  7
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption;
(e)
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for the purposes of 
this paragraph, the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the 
manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or 
international agreements to which the Borrower is a party and any other goods 
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association);
(f)
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or 
(b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such 
payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(g)
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded 
Page  8
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
3.
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate of the 
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the amount 
of the First Tranche unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to 
the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
Program; (ii) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent 
with the objectives of the Program; and (iii) that the actions described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory, and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (iii) 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
1.  
In accordance with the privatization program referred to in Section (6.iv) of 
the Program, the Borrower has taken all steps within its control to bring to the point 
of sale at least 14 enterprises.  For the purposes of this paragraph, “taking all 
steps within its control to bring to the point of sale” requires the Borrower to have 
(i) carried out a valuation of the enterprise, (ii) prepared a prospectus or dossier 
for the enterprise in question as the case may be, (iii) solicited offers directly or 
through advertisement(s) in appropriate newspapers or other appropriate forms of 
advertisement, (iv) evaluated any offers and selected successful bidder(s), and (v) 
invited the successful bidder(s) to enter into good faith negotiations. 
2.
In accordance with Section (6.iv) of the Program, the Borrower has taken all 
necessary action to split EMPA into two separate entities to be responsible for food 
security and commercial activities, respectively.
3.
The Borrower has taken all steps within its control to conclude a lease or 
concession agreement with a qualified and experienced private sector operator, on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, for the operation and management 
of (i) the ports of Praia and Mindelo, and (ii) INTERBASE. 
4.
The Borrower has concluded a performance agreement, on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association, with CORREIOS and ASA, respectively.
5.
The Borrower has: (i) published a decree which has the effect of terminating the 
legal personality of ARCA VERDE, and (ii) appointed a liquidation commission in 
accordance with its laws for the sale or transfer of all of ARCA VERDE’s assets. 
6.
In accordance with Section 5 (c) of the Program, the Borrower has issued a 
ministerial order, acceptable to the Association, which permits all qualified 
importers to participate in the procurement of food items imported into its territory 
and financed by bilateral and multilateral institutions. 
7.
The Borrower has achieved progress, acceptable to the Association, in the 
implementation of the PIP. 
8.
In accordance with Section 5 (b) of the Program, the Borrower has taken all 
necessary governmental action to submit, for parliamentary approval, legislation, 
acceptable to the Association, for the removal of all quantitative import restrictions 
on the commodities specified in said Section.
