Document of
The World Bank
MeC  OnPItAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE: COPY
Report No. :P- 5895 ET    Type: (PR)
Ti.tle: ROAD REHABILTTATION PROJECT
Author: ED'UARD IRGENS                                  Rqt     P-5895ET
Ext. :34151 Room:J10085 Dept. :AF2IN
NEKORAM  AND RECOMENDATION
OF To
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERIATIONAL DEVELOPNET ASSOCIATION
To THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUIT EQUIVALENT To US$96.0 NIllION
To THE
GOVERNNEIT OF ETHIOPIA
FOR A
ROAD REBILITATION PROECT
It
OCTOBER 29, 1992
TM, docut has a ricted dis ho and may be wsed by recipients only h  e perfomance of
their fficial duties. Its contents may not othenwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authoriation.



EMIIOPIA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         Ethiopia Birr
Birr 1.00    =    US$0.20
US$1.00      =    Birr 5.0
SDR 1.00     =    US$1.4458
US$1.00      =    SDR 0.6917
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Ethiopia uses the metric system)
I cubic meter (inr)         220 Imperial gallons, 264.2 US gallons
or 1,000 liters
i meter (m)           =    3.28 feet or 39.37 inches
1 millimeter (mm)     =    0.39 inches
1 kilometer (km)      =    0.62 miles
ACRONYMS ANID ABBREVIATIONS
ADT                   Average Daily Traffic
AfDB            -    African Development Bank
ERA              -    Ethiopian Road Authority
ERR             -    Economic Rate of Retum
ERRP             -    Emergency Recovery & Reconstruction Project
MOHUD&C         -    Ministry of Housing, Urban Development &
Construction
MOTAC           -    Ministry of Transport and Communications
PMS              -    Pavement Management System
RTA             -    Road Transport Authority
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ETHIQPLA
ROAD 1EHAI ITAgR&Q=I
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
*             Borower:                   The Government of Ethiopia
Credit Amoont:              SDR 66.4 million (US$ 96.0 million equivalent)
Crdit Term:                 Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Fncing ln:
US$ nillion
Lcal      Foreign    IQTI
Government                                    13.3         -       13.3
IDA                                            9.2        86.8     96.0
Total                                  22.5        86.8    109.3
Economic Rate of Return:    21.7%
Staff A4pprisal Rsnort: 11249-ET
Mais:    IBRD No. 22830
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the penrirmante
of their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank au% vorizatlon



- 1 -
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 66.4 million, the equivalent of US$ 96 million on
standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to help finance a Road Rehabilitation Project.
PART I:
COUNTRY POLICES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Introduction
1.           The Transitional Government (T1) of Ethiopia took control after the defeat of the
forces of the Mengistu regime in May 1991. Bank activities since the political chauge have focused
on an emergency recovery operation, and a recendy negotiated Policy Framework Paper which
provides the basis for a program of fundamental economic reform. Because the Charter under which
the present adminitration has been established requires that national elections are held no later than
December 1993, thc Bank's proposed strategy and program of support is focused on the remainder
of this ransitional period. The strategy also contains indicative proposals for a longer term Bank
program if the future Government continues commitment to the thrust and pace of reform established
during the transitional period.
Recent Country Trends and Performance
2.           Progress on the Political and Economic Fronts. Since the political change in May
1991, the Transitional Government CM) has made substantial progress on both the political and
economic fronts. In addition to establishing the transitional administration, elections have been held
in most parts of the country for new regional administrations. Conflicts between the Ethiopian
People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDP), the leading political group in the Government,
and the Oromo Liberation Front (OLF), have been a delaying factor in achieving political consensus
in the wansitional administration, and in meeting the timetable for the transition. On the economic
front, the TG has presented an Economic Policy statement, which aims to develop a liberalised
economy and support private sector growth. This has been reinforced by a number of reform
initatives, including a new code to encourage domestic and foreign investment, relaxation of controls
over trade, labor mobility and employment, withdrawal of production quotas, deregulation of freight
trucking, continuation of earlier reforms liberalising agricultural marketing, and the issuance of a
proclamation to guide the restructring and divestiture of the large paratal sector. In September
1992, the TG agreed a PFP with the Bank and IMF, and entered into an SAF. As a consequence of
these agreements, the TG has already taken action to devalue the Birr by 140 percent as a step
towards a market based exchange rate system. The Government is also committed to a regime of tight
monetary and budgetary control, phasing out of domestic bank financing of the budget deficit, and
increased flows of credit to the private sector. As part of the agreement, the TG has also made an
FY93 budget allocation of Birr 540 million for safety net measures to deal with the social impact of
the reforms. Ihis includes provision for food/kerosene vouchers to respond to the price increases in



-2 -
imported petroleum; a one-time adjustment in public sector salaries, based on food price increases;
and a provision for parastatal redundancies.
3.           Ethiopia's Severe Poverty Problems. These reform measures have taken place
against the backdrop of serious economic and social problems. With a GDP per capita income level
of $115 a year, Ethiopia probably ranks as one of the poorest countries in the world. Over half of
its population suffer chronic food insecurity, the result of periodic devastating drought, significant
land loss due to enviromnental degradation that is worst in the most heavily populated and poorest
regions, a poorly developed and maintained road system that severely hampers food marketing and
distribution, and the impact of long civil conflict and inappropriate policies. Over 30 percent of
Ethiopians live below the absolute poverty level, with widespread urban and rural unemployment,
and with millions of refugees, demobilised soldiers, and people displaced as the result of war or
enforced villagisation under the previous regime. As a consequence, Ethiopia suffers from -some of
the worst social indicators in Africa, including infant mortality of 13.9 percent and maternal mortality
of 9.5 percent, and a mortality rate of almost 25% for children under five. Half the population has
no health facilities within ten kilometers, and the proportion of doctors and nurses to population is
well below the average for low income Sub-Saharan African countries. In rural areas only 12 percent
of the population has access to safe water, and almost half of urban dwellers, and most of the rural
population has no sanitation facilities.
4.           Main Economic Trends. On the economic front, per capita income has been
declining by an average 5 percent over the last three years. Average inflation, which had been
traditionaly low in Ethiopia, reached about 20 percent in both FY91 and FY92. This was mainly
the result of continued recourse to domestic bank financing of the budget deficit. The price level has
also been affected by supply shortages as agricultural output stagnated and industrial production
declined by more than 20 percent since FY89. Decreased production and leakages due to the
exchange rate overvaiuation resulted in a decline in exports to their lowest level since 1976. The
decline in coffee exports (Ethiopia's largest export commodity) has been particularly severe, with a
drop of official export volumes of 34 percent in FY91 and another 38 percent in FY92. This has
been accompanied by a substantial decline in revenues and fiscal deficit of 13 percent of GDP
(including grants). The deficit on the current account reached 8 percent of GDP, financed to large
extent through accumulation of extemal payment arrears which reached US$716 million by June
1992. As of the same date, the country's total outstanding debt amounted to about US$4 billion;
scheduled debt service ratio increased from 39 percent In FY89 to 80 percent in FY92. The table
on the next page presents some of the key macroeconomic indicators.
5.           The Inherited Constraints on Growth. Ethiopia's productive capacity has been
severely hampered by a combination of factors involving inappropriate policies, security problems,
insufficient infrastructure, and loss of natural assets due to environmenta damage. On the policy
front, before the political change in May 1991, the economy was dominated by massive state control
of the productive sectors, trade, financial services, and infrastructure and utilities, oriented to support
the war effort. The private sector was consequently suffocated by a lack of foreign exchange and
many monopoly and discriminatory practices that limited access to credit at reasonable rates, and
taxed profits at exorbitant levels. The distortions brought about by the overvalued Birr created
additional disincentives for export-oriented production, and encouraged purely speculative activities.
While the TG has made great strides in reforming this negative policy framework, it will take some
time before confidence is restored among domestic and foreign Investors. The unresolved political
problems between the EPRDF and the OLF, with their attendant security problems in the southeast



3-
Table 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Projections
FY89       FY90        FY91       FY92      FY93        FY94       PY95
(eat.)
Growth Raftes
GDP                                 1.6%       -1.5%       -0.3%      -5.2%      6.5%        5.5%       5.5%
GDP per capita                      -1.3%      -4.3%       -3.1%      -7.9%      3.5%        2.5%       2.5%
ConSUmption per capita                 ...        ...         ..         ...    0.5%         2.8%       2.7%
Debt Service
Shebduled Debt Service (USSM)        294.1       390.9      433.0      406.2    471.0        463.8      456.8
of which: nteest (USS)              85.8        78.9        106      113.5    135.7         153.7     166.6
Debt Servic./GS I/                  38.8%       57.8%      79.2%      80.0%     71.5%       56.9%      49.7%
Debt Service/GDP                     5.0%        6.5%       6.6%       5.9%     10.6%        12.6%      13.1%
Ratios to GDP
Gros Investment 2/                  13.4%       12.3%       lt.4%      9.6%     13.0%        13.2%      13.1%
Domestic Svings                      5.8%        5.7%       0.2%       -1.2%     -3.0%       -3.8%      -3.9%
Nafionl Savings 3/                   7.6%        7.4%        1.7%       1.8%     1.9%        2.0%       2.7%
GovenumentRevaus 4/                  31A%        24.9%       19.8%      15.3%     19.8%       20.8%      22.0%
Go trnmenExenditures                 46.6%       45.2%       36.3%      28.5%     43.1%       42.7%      42.0%
Ovrall Deficit (-) 4/                -15.2%     -20.3%      -16.5%     -13.2%    -23.3%      -21.9%     -20.0%
Overall Deficit(-) 51                 -8.8%     -16.5%      -13.0%     -10.0%    -11.8%      -10.0%      -8.0%
Miscellaneous
ConamerPdce Index(1984-100)6/         112.0      117.7       142.3      172.2    213.9        235.2      251.7
AmunvaaeragschagesofCPT6/             9.6%        5.1%      20.9%       21.0%    24.2%        10.0%       7.0%
Monyyandqua"rr "'GrowthRate           8.9%       17.6%       18.6%      13.3%     19.6%       15.9%      11.0%
Rel ExchangeRte (1989-100)             100        98.6       106.1      126.7        ...         ...        ...
Ewaxpo (Goods) Growth Rae                ...     -5.4%      -25.2%     -33.4%     56.6%       34.5%       8.7%
Expus(GNFS)/GDP2/                    12.5%       11.2%        8.2%       7.3%      8.1%        8.6%       8.5%
Empt (Goods) Growth Rate                ...      -8.1%       -0.9%       0,2%    21.3%        12.6%       2.6%
Imos (GNFS) / GDP2/                  20.0%       17.8%       18.4%      18.1%     20.1%       21.1%      20.2%
Curant Account Baoahc (USSM) 7/      -339.6     *405.1      -585.1     -553.S   -720.1       -782.8    -730.0
Curen AoountBalace/GDP                -5.7%      -6.7%       -8.9%      -8.0%    -16.2%      -21.1%     -20.9%
Toa Gross Resowves (US$M) 8/           81.6       21.9        88.5       89.7    191.0        303.8      414.2
in weeks of impt                       4.4        1.1         4.7       '4.1       7.2        10.0       13.0
Ssaw: Data pvded by Fuplan auaflts; and Bank and Fund swfef ms.
1t Export of goods and svices only.
V  Const  pice data for proection years to neutalize distortions
caused by excan baw te depreciation.
31 Excludes all Ofcial Grants.
4t Exchlding Grat
St Includin Gratos.
6t Addis Ababa indax.
7/ Excluding aU Oflicial Trsr.
81 National Bank of Ethiopia reserves.



-4-
of the country, corntribute additional uncertainty for investors. This may well continue through the
remainder of the transitional period until the national elections produce a clearer political mandate.
6.           Poor infrastructure places serious limits on Ethiopia's economic growth. Tne greatest
problems lie in the scant road network, a ratio of 0.3 km per thousand people, one of the lowest in
Africa. Many roads have deteriorated significantly due to lack of maintenance and war damage,
resulting in high trucking costs. Rural roads are especially scarce, with three-quarters of Ethiopian
farms more than a half-day's walk from an all weather road. Ethiopia's transport problems have
increased as a result of Eritrea's de facto independent status, which has made Ethiopia effectively a
land-locked country. .iIthough free-port agreements have been reached for Assab port and Massawa
port, both have inadequate facilities and are frequently congested. Djibouti, the other main option,
has problems too, especially sporadic incidents of banditry on routes to Addis Ababa. In addition to
poor roads and transport difficulties, Ethiopia also faces other infrastructure problems. Ethiopia's
energy consumption, which is one of the lowest in the world, will outstrip current supply as soon as
the economy begins to grow and living standards improve. This will require costly development of
hydroelectric potential. Petroleum imports currently make up 10 percent of Ethiopia's import bill.
7.           Environmental degradation is severe, especially in the northern regions due to land
pressure, overcropping, and overgrazing. This has resulted in significant soil loss, which if
unt.hecked, could increase the areas unable to sustain crops five-fold over the next twenty years. This
ce ld result in 15 percent of the population losing their land, and incomes from crops and livestock
could drop by 30 percent in areas which already have few economic alternatives. Over-reliance on
fuelwood has resulted in massive deforestation, with forest loss at the rate of 200,000 ha a year.
Depletion is occurring faster than replacement. The intensive use of dung as an alternative fuel is
robbing the soil of fertilizer and reducing crop yields. Many regions also suffer severe water shortage
due to drought, erosion and deforestation, as well as a drop in the water table because of poorly
planned bore-holes.
Main Priorities for the Government
8.           The central economic and social priority of the TO is poverty reduction, and the
sategy for accomplishing this goal has been stated in the recently completed Policy Framework
Paper. This involves three main thrusts: employment generating, sustainable economic growth;
improvement of social programs and services for the poor; and interim safety net measures that
provide protection to the most vulnerable parts of the population during the period of adjustment.
Economic growth is the base of the long term strategy for reducing poverty, by providing
employment, improving incomes, and closing the food deficit through increased agricultural
production. This growth strategy will require a number of important parallel measures concerned
with fundamental policy reform, and related to inputs for the productive sectors, infrastructure
improvements, and environmental conservation and rehabilitation.
9.           Policy Priorities. On the policy front, the TG is committed to maintain the pace of
reformn already established. Once fully implemented, the fiscal and monetary policy c6tnges recently
agreed with the Fund will facilitate economic stabilisation, strengthening the Government's revenue
position, guarding against the threat of inflation, and removing the worst disincentives for export-
oriented productive activities. This will be followed by structural reforms to stimulate production and
encourage private sector development. Structural reform will include a range of initiatives to
rationalise and broaden the tax base, remove unnecessary regulations on trade, produce real positive



-5 -
interest rates to encourage domestic savings and increase resources for inesment, remove any
remaing rlory and ive discriminatMon against the private secor, and improve the climate
for foreign investors. Many of these masures can be designed and launched by the TG during the
remainder of the transitional period. After the elections, the myjor priorities for the new
administrion  will be the resolution of the land-ownership question (essential to encouage
commercial agriculture, and environmental conservation practices); reforms in the financial sector
to remove the state monopoly and allow the diversification of competitive financial services;
significant restructuig of the large state enterprise sector to ensure that it operates wit hard budget
contraint and management autonomy in a fully commercial environment; a follow-up phased program
of privatisation, as investor confidence improves and a capital market is developed; and removal of
the fnal constaint to private sector and joint-venture enty into economic activities stll held under
state control.
10.          M asures to Stimulate Sector Growth. Within the improved economic policy
environment, a number of complementary measures will be taken, aimed at sectoral and inter-sectoral
peformance. These will involve improved inputs and services for the agricultural and industrial
sectors, and the restoration and expansion of essential infrastructure. For the agricultural sector, the
main priorities will include improving the distribution of ferdlisers, improved seeds, and pesicides
trough fuill private sector involvement; improving access to credit; and improving agricultural
extension and related services. In the industrial sector, once the Government has removed policy
constraints, the main initatives will be taken by the private sector to improve technology choice,
market infmation, and access to joint venture arrgements. The Government will support these
measures, and also encourage linkages between agricultural production and man uri. To support
agriculura a  industial growth, the TG will lauch a comprehensive program and straiegy for the
roads, transport, and energy sectrs. All of these measures carry three priority cross-uttg
Imperatives. The first is maximising the efficient use of labor intensive methods, for which large scale
construction provides special scope. Secondly, activities to encourage production will need to be
accompanied by clear policies and incentives for environmental conservation. and rehabilitation
initiatives to respond to the worst aspects of environmental degradation. And finally, stimulating the
productive sectors wil be accompanied by a comprehensive program of ntitional refotm to
restructure and commercialise, or divest a number of large monopoly parastatal agencies that have
dominated trade, distribution, and public works. Actions will also be taken to improve essential
supoti  services like agricultural research.
11.          Social Services and Programs. Alongside increased employment, an urgent priorty
for the TG is the improvement of basic education and training, maternal and child health care,
nutrition programs, preventive health especially inoclation, and the provision of safe water and
saitation. At the center of this effort will be a range of inudatives that combine to reduce population
growth. In addition to family planning linked tc basic health and nutrition programs, measures wil
be taken to increase the participation of girls in primary education, reduce the drop-out rates, and
broaden basic literacy programs. These measures, which have a special focus on the disadvantaged
position of women, wfll need to be complemented by a searching policy review to identify the
ttaditonal and legal constraints that prevent Ethiopian women playing their full participative role in
the economy. This would result in measures to respona to the special hardships that women endure,
and to give legal standing to their rights to own property, obtain credit, and engage in productive
activities. There would also be initiatives to encourage youth  mploymt schemes combined wih
basic education, to offer economic possibilities to the thousands of orphans and street children, the
victims of the war and distorting social policies of the previou. regime.



- 6 -
12.          Priint, FinanRu al Planing, and Donor Coordintion. Ihe TG has made
impressive headway in specifying an emergency recovery program that attracted subsnial Bank and
donor support; and in carrying out the first phase of reforms needed to establish economic
stabilisation. However, beyond producing lists of important projects, litle progress has been made
in craing convincing strategies and plans for the deveiopment of key sectors. To vrepare for the
period beyond the reconstruction phase and for the transition from relief to development assistance,
it is a high priort for the TG to put in place a systematic process to improve the development of
sector investment programs. 'Tis will include priorisaton of the sectors requiring the most urgent
atention; analysis of the exising constraints ad possibilities for the secor; economically sound and
socially jutfied strategies for sector development; identification of the policy and institutional
reforms needed to attain agreed goals; the provision of budgetary resources for identifled projects
designed witin an overall plarnng framework; the s=ope for atracting domestic and intnational
private sector investment; and a convincing framework for donor support to supplement resources
already identified. This exercise, supported by a full review of public expenditre and public
mvestment programming, will also involve strengthening the mehanisms for donor coordination to
ensure that the Government takes the lead in managing the planning of external assistance. Donor
coordination will aso help integrate donors' analytical activities into the Government's own
programming efforts, and prevent dysfunctional duplication in donor projects. It is also the aim for
a trasparent budgetary process that incorporates countepart funds into the general budget, to
encourage donors to relax their earmarking uf counterpart funds. Donor coordination is especially
imtat in the Ehiopian seting bece of the large number of active donors in the country, and
the substan  size of the programs of the World Bank, EEC, African Development Bank, USAID,
taly, and UNDP.
h.e lbnk's Assstance Strte
13.          Ibe Bank's Existing Program. Prior to May 1991, the Bank's activides in Ethiopia
were resticted to a core lending program, because of a failure by the previous regime to produce a
convincng reform program, and because of the continued state of cil disruption due to the war. The
table on the next page gives details of the 18 operations which make up the portfolio.
14.          lhese operations were selected becuse they responded to high priority needs for
socia support, and to ensure that the infiastructural requirements would be in place to support a
future program of development once agreement could be reached on policy reform. Nevertheless, the
implirtion of many of these projects was slowed down because of the negative policy
envionment in the country, insttional constaints resulting from inflexible monopoly arrangements
in the implementing agencies, and continuing inserity as the war escaated. With the political
change, the Bank is actively restructuring a number of these projects to adjust them to the new, more
libeaismd climate, and to ensure that they meet the priorities of the Transitional Government.
15.          Tke Emergency Rocovery and R           Program. Whenthe Bank established
working relaions with the TG, it was agreed at based on the TG's commitment to pursue a
program of fudamental policy refor.i, the Bank would be willing to support an emergency project
to help the new Government reonstruct its war-tom infrasructure, jump-start economic poducion,
provide  ential ph cis, and launch a pilot social fund to provide support foi community-
l  efd   to rebuild destroyed local facilities. The Bank coordinated a consortium of donors to
support the Government's Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Program (ERP), and although
the program exceeded the available resources of donors, a package of almost $680 million was



-7-
CURRENT PORTJOLIO OF BANK OPERATIONS IN EJlOPIA
Year   Projet                                Amount    Undisbursed
(Us $ Million)
1984    Roads 11                             70.00          13.07
1984    Coffee Pocessing/Marketing           35.00           0.19
1985    Telecommunications VI                40.00           3.57
1985    Education VI                         70.00          45.51
1985    Agricultural Research                22.00          15.04
1985    Technical Assistance                  4.00           0.83
1986    Port EnginceringlConstruction         5.50           0.19
1986    Energy                               62.00          34.88
1987    Forestry                             45.00          38.71
1987    Small Scale rrigation/Contr.          7.00           5.13
1987    Livestoca IV                         39.00          24.90
1988    Education VU                         70.00          71.34
1988    Famnly Heath                         33.00          27.92
1989    PADEP                                85.00          11.29
1989    Tranport                             72.00          72.49
1990    Market Towns Development             40.20          39.74
1990    Addi Urban Development I             35.00          36.99
1992    Emergency Recovery/Reconstr.         150.00        135.79
Total                              1382.87         577.58
assembled. 11 i included an IDA projetfor $150milion togetherwith $80 minlion restructed from
the existing portfolio to meet ERRP priorities. To date, the disb  of the IDA supported
portlon of the ERW  are better than the average both for Ethiopia ad Sub-Sahrn Africa as a whole.
16.         IFVs Activities In Ethiopia. Because of the negative environment for the privae
sector, IFC's activities in Ethiopia have been limited. At present the only active operation is a still
larely undisbursed 1989 equIt investment of $7.8 million in Crude Peroleum. ad Natura Gas
doeveopment in the Red S3a. As it is likely that the Red Sea exploration area will become part of
EtreaWs territori  wates after the March 1993 referedum on Erierean independence, Britfsh
Petroleum, IFC's inv _tm   partner is currently reviewing its future involvemen in this venture.
Given the cag in the policy environent, IEC plans to become more active in Ethiopia as long
as the TG is able to maintin peacefil conditions, and translate is broad reform objectives into
meaures to stimate private investment. Fure invtment priorities would focus initially on
supporting the privatsation of selected industral public entepri; financing the rehabilitation and
expansion of these enterpris; and assising in financial sector reforms that encourage the
establishment of private sector ins itutions ad mechanisms to mobiise firuncing for prnvate
investment.



17.          MIGA Activities Involving EAhiopia. EAhiopia has been a fWll member of MIGA
since July 1991. To date MIGA has not insufed any investments in Ethiopia, and has registered only
one expression of interest for a posible investment in the transportation sector. 'he policy advisory
services, and the fo     investment advisory services have not yet been active in Ethiopia, although
the latter has bad some inital informal contacts with the TG's  vestment office.
18.          Bank's Future Assistne Goals and Strategy. The key objective of the Bank's
assistance program will be to support the Government's efforts to reduce povety. There are three
main strands to this support. The fust consists of measures that will result in employment generatig
and environmenally sustaining growth, the most effective and sustainable basis for eradicating
poverq. The second consists of r-asures that will rapidly improve the quality and distribution r'
sential social services, and build the fondation for longer term human resource development wit
a special focus on improving the ecwaomic participation of women. The final strand consists oi
providing general, but non-lending support for the sablishment of tmporay safety-nets to protect
the most vulneraile from the transitory negative effects of adjustment. The TG has accepted the
responsibility for maldng its own budgetary provisions for these meases, but its capacity to do so
will depend in part on the availability to the budget of the local currency counterpart of qu3zk
disbursing balance-of-payments support that will come from the Bank and other donors within the
adjustment program. The Bans strategy is to set some specific goals in priority areas for the
remainder of the transitional period, which is due to end with the election of a new Government in
December 1993, and to provide an increased level of support compared to the previous core program,
as long as there is adequate progress towards adjustment goals.
19.          The first of the specifc goals for the remainder of the transitional period, is to
implement the next phase of the structura reform program to establish the conditions essential for
increased production and involvement. Tis includes policy measures to ensure economic stabilisation
(troug exchange rate reform, and tight monetary and budgetay control); remove the worst
constino   on private sector activity (nterest rate discrimon, poor access to foreign exchange,
punitively high taxes, and entry restrictions); and begin to smulae export-oriented prouction
(through export and trade re1orms). These measures will be supported by a Structural Adjustment
Credit, to be launched within the transitional period. IDA will also support a few selected initiatives
that are crucially importa to the economic growth and employment priorities. These incde
ossential inputs for the agricultual sector through a National Seeds Project to improve the quality and
distribution of improved seeds; and a Fertlizer Project to improve distribution, and widen the use
of fortilizer in the peasant sector. These projects are important not only in their contribution to
Ethiopia's key productive sector, but also in helping to respond to the food security problem of the
country. The other growth supporting initves are concerned v.' restoring vital Infratructure. The
Road  iehabilitat  Project will protec Ethiopia's economic life-line by restoring the road frm
Assab port to Addis Ababa. This transit route is critical to all economic activities that depend on
eports and  ports, and is essenti for the success of the reform program. A Public Works Project
will provide follow-up funding to the ERRP to complete urgent rehabilitation of key roads, water
supply, and other priority facflides, and support conservation efforts. The project will also directly
conbute to employment goals by utilising labor-intensive methods. Finaly, the Ogaden Gas project
will provide an important alternative to reliance on traditional energy sources, and contribute to
environment  conservaton as well as providing altative employment for women fuelwood
carriers.



- 9 -
20.          The second of the specific goals for the transitional period will be to inii  work
towards the longer term goal of Improving the access of the poor to basic education and health
services. Tlere will be four importan Bank initiatives within this goal, one being the restructuring
of the existing Family Health Project to support urgent rehabilitation of health facilities, and to
strengthen the management of the sector. This will be followed by an operation to improve maternal
health and Uhild care and fmily planning through the provision of essential supplies. The thrd
activity will be the monitoring of the Social Fund which was launhed as part of the ERRP, to lay
the basis to broadening the pilot to all parts of the country. Fially, during the trasitional period,
the Bank will launch a mnjior Human Resource Development Study with other key donors, to support
the Government's planning for this crucial sector, to develop a strategy for the transition from relief
to development assistance, and to lay the foundation for later Bank operations.
21.          The third specific goal for the transitional period wIll be to produce a sound analytical
foundaion for investment in a number of priority sectors. The fit of these, in human resources
development, has aready been discussed. The other major studies are (a) an agricutural sector
memorandum; (b) a rural roads study; (c) the completion of the forestry action program; (d) updates
of previous studies in the fiancial sector and industrial sector; (e) follow-up work to an iial
povrty assessment that was recendy complettd; and (e) an energy sector review. The Bank will also
partipate actively with UNDP in efforts to strengthen economic policy analysis and sector planmnng,
and to ensure that the new regional di  ons have the required planning and financial
manage t capacity.
22.          The final special goal will be to support the Governmen's efforts to establish an
effective donor coordination mechanism, and to help mobilise donor support for its programs. With
its agreement to enter a program of adjustment, Ethiopia is now eligible for participate in the Special
Ptogram of Assisance for Africa (SPA), and a Consultative Group Meeting has been convened for
late November 192 to mobiise donor support for the Government's refonn program.
23.          Conditions for the Baks Enlrged Progrm of Support. For FY93 and FY94,
the Bank would provide an enlarged program of support totalling about $830 milion. Tbis level of
support will be conftingent on three factors. The fist will be adequate progress in designing and
implementing the first phase of the structuwal reform prga  outlined in paragraph 19. The second
consideraton i8 that there be adeque implemention of both the restructured portfolio and the new
operations. The  i  fiactor is that there is no significat deteroration in the political and security
situation in the couty of the type that would threaten progress on reform, or obstruct the Bank's
oerations ithere. If these conditions are n0t met, IDA lending would be cofined to a core program
of up to $150 milion a year, 1bcused on major social needs on which progress can be made without
the necessity for comprehensive policy reform. Once the new Goverment has been elected, the Bank
will revisit its strategy, level of support, and program priorities, based on the policies of the new
administratn.  During the transitional period, progress on the components of the adjustment
program and satisfactory project implementation will provide the criteria for evaluating counry
24.          lank Support after the Tnitional Period. Assumig policy continulity after the
transitWnal perod, the Bank will continue to pursue the central goal of poverty alleviation, through
a deepenig and extension of the adjustment process, through further measures to support production
and employment, thugh additional fforts to expand eseal iftucture, and through
implementation of a comprehensive hun  resource development program. On the reform side,



- 10-
anton will shift to mesures that will accelerate the confidence of private investors, including
resolution of the land-ownership question, libaising and diversifying the fincial secor, and
restctuing and privasing stae enterprises. In tem of production and employment goals, support
will be given to tha livestock sector, enterprise development and export, and agricutral research
and extension. Major ifacture support will include the expansion of the rural roads network,
selective improvement of key trunk roads, additional support to the transport sector, the expansion
of Ethiopia's hydroelectric potential, and selective improvements in telecommunications to support
business expansion. Buiding on the Foresty Action Plan, the Bank wfll support the development of
a Nationa Environmental Action Plan, and design a project to support its Implemention. In tem
of improving social services, the Bank will implement a number of initiatives emerging f-om the
fortcoming human resources development study. These will include additional measures to improve
the delivery of basic health and nutrition services, measures to support family planning, strengthening
the primary educational systm and the participation of girls, and support to the Government and
reogional administrations in efforts to restructure the overall provision of social services. These
measures will be supplemented by others to improve urban and rural water supply, and to provide
other essenti urban facilities.
9mar As_met
25.          Ethiopia has emerged from  almost two decades of civil strife and policy
mismanagement with an accumulation of some of the worst social and povery problems on the
AfriCan contint its economy in ruins, its essential infrastructure destroyed or neglected, and its
naural assets theaten  by severe envirornental degradation. The TG has responded rapidly to
provide poitical stability and to embark on a far-reaching program of economic liberalisation. Recent
epeiene of the PFP negodations shows that the TG is well prepared and seriont ;*, its dialogue with
the Bank and Fund, and the speed with which some major agreements have been implementd,
especily the recent devaluation, demonses strong Govnmant ownership of the refrm program.
There are sll many unceraies, includig unresolved political differences. However, the progress
made to date Jusfies the case for a substantial program of support irom the Bank, focused on the
central goad of poverty reduction through a blend of measures to stimulate economic growth and
employment, and to improve the access of the poor to essential social services and programs. The
Bank s d also remain vigilant and ready to reassess its level of support if the reform program
seriously falters, or the political and security situation were to deteriorate to the point where Bank
assistance could not be effectively delivered. Beyond the transitional period, there is some possibility
of substantive discontinuity between the policy direction taken by the present administion and that
of th fture Government For this reason, the Bank will need to carefully review whether the next
Governmn  is committed to continue the thrust and pace of the policy reform program. ITis review
will determine the level and content of the Bank's re-ponse after the transitional period.



- 11- 
PART n:
THE PROJECT
Sector Bacgruln-d
26.          Development of surface transport in Ethiopia has been seriously limited by wide
topographical variations, extremely rugged terrain, severe climatic conditions and a widely-dispesed
population, factrs which make construction of transport infrastructure not only physically difficult
but also extremely costly. In terms of surface standard, the classified road network in Ethiopia
*           conists of 19,020 km of all weather roads, of which 4, 155 km are paved, 8,943 km are graveled,
and the balance 5,962 km are unsurfced roads. The highway network consists of radial extensions
from Addis Aba; there are few interconnecting links between adjacent regions and the feeder road
network is grossly insufficient. Large parts of Ethiopia remain isolated and depend entirely upon
pack animals or human carriers for transport. Nearly three-quart  of aU farms are more than a
half-day walk from an all-weather road. Road development has been especially deficient in the
agriculturally rich west of the country. Since about 89 percent of the total popldation is rural anu
85 perceat employed in agriculture, the lack of roads, particularly rural and feeder roads, Is a
significant economic and social constraint.
27.          The onion of the countrs main rute, the 861 km road which connects the
capital of Addis Ababa with the Port of Assab on the Red Sea, gives rise to the greatest concern.
Due to age, overloading and inadequate maintenance, sections are now deteriorating and the road has
become a serious bottleneck to economic recovery. Since about 2.6 million tons, including 82
percent of Ethiopia's total exports and imports, are transported annually on the road, its importance
cannot be over-emphasized. Unless action is taken in the very near future, continuing deterioration
will substantially increase vehicle operating costs and the cost of eventual road reconstruction.
Further deterioration in the road condition would exacerbate the present chronic shortage of transport
which already constrains the movement of petroleum, food relief and other crticaly needed imports.
Rehabiitation of this vital transport link is thus urgenty needed and is the fous of the proposed
28.          Ihe Government has not yet developed a full strategy for the transport sector and is
primarly concerned, at present, with the repair of the existing ifrastructure and increasing trucking
capacity to meet emergency needs. It has also begun preparation, with assistance fom the Bank, of
a Rural Roads Strategy. As one element of its strategy, the Government has placed emphasis on
greater reliance on the private sector for the provision of road transport services. Many major
policy decisions on the role of the private sector taken within the context of the overall stategic
commitment to reduce the role of the state in the provision of transport and related ancillary services
have yet to be fully implemented, but in the context of the Emergency Recovery and Reconstuction
Project (ERR) (Cr. 235 1-ET), the Government has reduced transport regulations and wiUl free truck
tarif by end-1992.
29.          In terms of cost recovery, the revenues from road users are greater than total a l
expenditres on roads including investments. Revenues from road users have been on the rise and
in 1990191 reached Birr 230.3 milion as a resut of determined Government's efforts to mobilize
resources. Road maintenance e diture in 1989/90 was about Birr 51 million or US$25.0 million,



- 12-
about US$1,315/km. This expenditure is widhin the range of needs for 'normal' maintenance, but
the age of the network and past neglect ate much greater needs. While total road usr revenues
are sufficient to meet total road expditures it would appear that more specific road user charge
revenue (revenue in excess of the level that would be generated by applying the average rate of
import duties and other taxes to vehicle operating cost inputs) are neither sufficient to meet total road
cost nor to meet the atributable costs of specific vehicle categories. User charges are thus lowest
on commercial vehicles which impose by far the greatest road costs.
30.          Both the present and previous Governments have recognized the importance transport
can and should play in developing the economy and have placed high priority on transport
investments. In its last public investment program, the previous Government gave twport
investment the highest priority and road  ance/rehabilitation and increased transport capacity
are two of the major components of the ERRP. Despite the emphasis given to transport-the total
length of the road network doubled between 1970 to 1986-inadequate infrastrcture and trksport
opeatg capacity remain major constraints to economic and social development and substanal fAure
investment will be required to expand and rehabilitate the road system.
31.          The Project has the following objectives: (i) to rehabilitate and improve sections of
the Mille-Assab road so that it remains open and fimctional and reduces vehicle opeatg costs and
transi time; (i) to assist Government in its effort to improve the   ntenance capacity on the
remainder of the road between Addis Ababa and Mille; and (iii) to strengthen the capacity of the
Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA) to better assess potei  road problems and plan future road
maitenance and rehabilitation needs in a timely fashion.
PtJ Desio
32.          The Project includes the following components: 0) rehabilitation of the sections of
the Addis-Assab road between Mille and the Port of Assab totalling 196 kms, including consicton
surviion (86 percent of total project costs); (H) design and implementation of a pavement
management system (PMS) to permit improved mniBodng of the paved road system and planning
of road mantenae operations, provision of tecbical assistamce and other consultancy services for
the preparation of a next road sector project, updating the ERA's road design manua and other sector
reaWd studies (4 percent); (ii) equipment for strengtl'ening axle load control and road m
(9 percent); and (iv) training of ERA staff (1 percent). A breakdown of costs and the financing plan
are shown in Sdule A. Amoun  and methods of procurement and of disburement are shown in
Schedule B. A  imetable of key project proessing events and the status of Bank group operations
in Ehiopia are given in Scbedules C and D, respectively. A map is also attaed.
33.          Ihe General Manager of the Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA) under Ministy of
Public Works and Urban Development (MOPW&UD) will be responsible for excufting the Project
IeB ERA is a well organized and competent organization, but it will require considerable support
becae  of the large road rehabilitation and maintenace worldoad it must now handle. To this end,
conultat will be used to: ) rview ERA's design work; (h) assist in the procement and
supevision of the civil works components; (iii) assist ERA in the design and implementaton of a



- 13 -
paveme management system; (iv) assist ERA in preparig new project components for a possible
Third Road Sector Project; (v) and assist MOPW&UD to cafry out sector related stdies. In the past,
a large amount of rehabilitation work was done by force account. Begining with the ERRP and in
this project, however, ICB will be utilized. The time schedule for implementation of the Project is
five years based on stating actual construction in March 1993. This schedule is realistic, since the
Project has been given high priority by Goverment and since the bulk of the Ptoject consists of
Work to be carried out by itational firms and superised by iteaional consltants. To better
monitor progress on institutional reform there will be a comprehensive mid-term review of the
Project, including a review of road maintenance operations, the establishment of the PMS and
progress on compliance with the axle load control action program, as well as overall project
Implementon and, compliance with legal covenants; the mid-term review woud take place by mid-
CY1995. The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.
PrWed Sustainabilit
34.          A number of components of the project will help ensure its sustainability. The
installation of a Pavent Mmagement System will enhance ERA's ability to monitor the road system
and plan road maineance opions. Additiona ma_innce equipment will be provided to enable
ERA to adequaely cover the mainteance needs of the Addis - Assb road. Finally, a tmetable for
the implementation of axle load legislation has been agreed and the project will include both
welhbridge equipment and a taigtwinning program to strengthen capacity in this area. This
should reduce future damage to the road system.
35.          Bank Group operions in the roads sub-sector have been generaly successful,
paiarly in achieving physical targets. But while the road constuction targets were geraly met,
the projects have not fully met their objectives of increasing the quality of road numai     and
improving sector policy in regard to vehicle weight regulation and adjustments in road user charges.
In the on-gon Second Road Sector Project (Cr. 1404-ET approved in 1983). the Government has
complied with the majority of covenants agreed upon; however, the axle load legislation enacted late
in 1990 is just being applied and a new road classification system is stil under review. The proposed
operation will deal widt these issues. The Second Road Sector Project is four years behind SAR
estimates, due to initially slow implementtion on the main civil works component, the Nekempte-
Bure road which is now nearly completed, and the recent civil disturbances and change in
govermen  The quality of work, however, has been good and a valuable transfer of know-how has
takm place during project execution. While the allocation of resources for road maintenance has
increaed in recent yeas to a reasonable level further increases will undoubtedly be necessary given
the poor condition of the road network. This will be subject to contimnu review under the proposed
operation. In the past, ERA has used force account operatons extensively, however this has not been
efficient and has led to ov t . Therefore, only ICB will be used in the current project and the
project will help finance sector related studies to lay the basis for greater private participation in the
fuu  both in road constructio and road manteance.
a       Jdome for IDA im
36.          The primary objective of the Project is to finance urgenty needed rebabilitation on
Ethiopia's main transport lifeline to ensure that it remains open and functional. Arresting



- 14-
deteioratin  of the Mille-As   rod and upgrading selected portions is essential to Ethiopia's
economic reowvery. Through EDA's involvement and assistance this critical work can be carried out
expeditiously usiog ICB, with which ERA has had little experience in the past. In addition, IDA wili
support the new Governm    m following through on a number of policy improvements which require
fiuther effot, including the installation of an axle load control system, stengthening highway
management and maintaining an adequate road maintenance program.
Agree Actionls
37.          At negodations the following agreements were reached with the Government: (a)
starting June 1, 1994 the Government will submit to IDA for review a progress report on the
implementatIon of new axle load legislation; (b) the Government will adopt a new functional road
classification system by the end of 1993; (c) starting with FY93 ERA will submit to IDA for review
an annual road mnenn ce program and budget; (d) by June 30, 1994, ERA will establish a
Pavement Management System; (e) there will be a mid-term review of the Project by mid CY1995
and (f) as a condition of credit effeine  the govenmment will submit to IDA all overdue audit
repos for ERA for the Second Road Sector Project (Cr. 1404-ET).
Evromenbl Aspct
38.          Since the project involves rebabilitation of an existing road its environmental impact
will be minimal. The project will have some negative short term environmental effects, primarily
dust and noise from construction works and some possible erosion. Provision will be made in the
contracts to minimize these. In the longer term the impact should be positive by improving road
safey (although this might be offset by increased speed levels).
2M           e Cdales
39.           The rehabilitation works to be financed under this operation are critical to keeping
thiopia's main access to the sea open; it is therefore essential for keeping relief supplies as well as
all other imports and exports flowing.
40.          The main benefits from the road rehabilitation component wIll be savings in vehicle
opeating costs. The Government will also benefit by avoiding otherwise costdy road reconstuction
in the fiure. The direct beneficiaries of reduced transport costs and improved road safety wiUl be
trudc and bus owners/operators and passenger car users on the county's main corridor - the Addis
Ababa-Assab road. Te economic analysis indicates an Economic Rate of Return of between 17 and
24 percent for the three secdons to be rehabilitated, with an average of 21.7 percent. With cost
incrased and benefits reduced by 15 and 25 percent respectively, the average Economic Rate of
Retr for the project would fall to a still satisfactory 14.5 percent. The pavement management
system will enable the ERA and Government to better monitor and plan road m ai    of its paved
road system and the installation of the axle load system should reduce fuiture damage to the road
system
RWka



- 15-
41.          Secuity remais a problem in Ethiopia and there is a possibility that implementation
of the clvii wors might be affected. Otherwise, there is only limited risk connected with the
Implemntation of the civil wods component of the Project, since the work will be carried out by
contrac awarded under ICB. With the support of consultants for procurement and supervision, the
ERA should have no difficulty in managing the project. With respect to extending the life of the
entire road and the Project's objecdve of rehabilitating sections in need of urgent repairs, there is a
risk that sections not included in the Project might fail and require investment sooner ta anticipated
(Mile-Awash). This risk, however, is reduced by the inclusion in the Project of the PMS with
appropriate technical assistance during the initial stage. Also, the Project includes a compone  for
the procurement of road maintenance equipment which wiUl improve ERA's capacity to cariy out
routine and periodic maiten.
42.          Another risk to the Project relates to the implementation of a new Axle Load Control
System. lhe Axle Load Control System, which aims at reducing overloading and preventing
premature deterioration of the reconstructed roads (as well as other sections of the paved road
system), may not be successfiu due to possible weaknesses of the Road Transport Authority (RTA)
to enforce filly the proposed system, or due to geneal socio-behavioral factors. Some risk is
associated with the Pavement Management System which may not be successfully implemented
becase of possible organizational weaknesses. These risks are reduced by the fact that technical
assistance will be provided under the Project. In addition, Govement has already in place the basic
infrs-ructure for vehicle axleload control-even if results are presently only used to gather statical
data.
43.          I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Assowation and recommend that the Executive Directrs approve the proposed Credit
Lewis Preston
President
October 29, 1992



-16-                          Schedule A
Pagp 1 of 2
Project Costs and Fcinandg Plan
(US$ Mlion)
A.   Cost Table
.__ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _  Local  Foreign  Total
I.  Civl Works
(a) MUle - Assab                            13.01      52.02       65.03
(b) Awash Section Depot                     0.07        0.07        0.14
Sub Total                               13.08       52.09       65.17
IL  Technical Assistance/Trainig                 1.14        6.46       7.60
-M. Equipment                              1     0.00        ?.80       7.80
aIV.  contingencies                               8.29       20.40      28.69
- -T -   Total Project Cost   -         22.0        86.76      109.26



.17-                       Schedule A
Page 2 of 2
Proposd Projet Ilacng
(USS MlWllon)
B.   Fisandng Plan
Source of Funds              LOCl         Foreign       Total
IDA                                       9.2          86.8          96.0
Govenment                                13.3           0.0          13.3
Total                                    22.5          86.8         109.3
Fatited Costs (icluding contgnces)
Civil Works                               20.3         68.1          88.4
Technical Assistance/Trainng               1.9          8.4          10.3
Equlipmen                                  0.3         10.3          10.6
Total                                     225          86.8         109.3



Sdiedule B
- 18 -                        Pae I of 2
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
(US$ milion equivalent)
I,  ~~~~~~                        arempt Methodl
Project Element          ICB       LCB     Other    N/A       Total
Cost
I. Civil Works                   88.17              0.20               88.37
(74.95)           (0.17)             (75.12)
1X. Technical AssstlTWang
Technical Assistance                             9.58               9.58
(9.58)             (9.58)
Training                                         0.72               0.72
_____________________  ________(0.72)    (0.72)
MI. Equipment
MTC Equipment                  9.92                                 9.92
(9.92)                               (9.92)
Other Equipment                0.66                                 0.66
L________________________         (0.66)                               (0.66)
TotWl                         98.75             10.50             109.25
WM(83)           (10.47)              (96.0)
a. Amounts in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
b. Amounts without parenthesis are totals.
c. Technical Assistance and Training will be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines



-19-Sdhedule B
- 19 -               ~~~~~Pa8e 2 of 2
Disbursements of
Credit Proceeds
Credit Category             Amount of Credit -      Disbursement
*                   .________________________________ Allocated (US$ million)  Percentage
1. Civil Works                                 67.0             100% of foreign
expenditure and 25%
of local expendiure
2. Technical Assistance/Training               10.0                  100%
3. Road Maintece Equipment and                 11.0                  100%
Spare parts u
4. Unallocated                                  8.0            X
Tota                                   US$6.0 mdilion
Estimated Disbursmets by Fical Year
(US$ miUllon)
r- _ _ _  i  1993    1994    1995  1996 1 997  1998
-Annu              2.0       17.0    19.0      30.0      22.0       6.0
0  Cumulative  22.0 2        19.0     38.0     68.0j   90.0       96.0



-20-
~~~wsg~~ngLQuia                          4jPO
Minble of Xev Proiect I!M=ing Events
Time takoe to prepare                   Tbree yeas
Prepared by                             ERA with assitance fiom
IDA-fimded cosltants
First IDA mission                       1988
Apprs mission departure                 September 1990
Negoatons                              August 10-13, 1992
Plaued Date of Effcdvena                March 1, 1993
List of rdevat PCRs and PPARs
1. AudI Report                   Thi  Highway Projet
Cr. 35-ET                     August 1975
2. Audit Report                  Fourth Highway Project
Ln. 523/Cr. Ill-ET            May 1977
3. PCR                           Fifth and Sixth Highway
Cr. 332 and 552-ET            Projects, June 1984
4. PR                            First Road Sector Project
Cr. 708-ET                    June, 1986



-21-
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Ceis
(as of Sep_tmb   30, 1992)
-....o*USS ifan)....
Amunt (Less Canellations)
Loan or        FfscFl                                                                   Uradf
Credit so.    Year  Borowr  Purpose                                       nk      IDA   bursed
.........      ....       .......... .. .......                         ...... .......... .......
Twlvo (10) Loa       thirty o  (31) Credits fully disbursed.          106.40   498.17
Cr.1404        1983  Ethiopia  Secnd Road Sector                                70.00    13.07
Cr.1429        1984  Ethiopia   Coffe Processing & Marketing                    35.00    0.19
Cr.1509        195   Ethiopia  Sixth Tolecxuniications                         40.00    3.57
Cr.1520        1965   Ethiopia   Sixth Education                                70.00    45.51
Cr.1521        1965   Ethiopia  Agriculturat Reeat rch                          22.00    1S.04
Cr. 1522       1965   Ethfopia  Technieal Assistanre                             4.00    0.83
Cr.1676        1986   Ethiopif  Port Engirnering & Construction                  5.50     0.19
Cr.1704        1986   Ethfopia  Enrogy                                          62.00    34.88
Crm17ZZ        1987  Ethiopia  Forestry                                         45.00   38.71
Cr.1765        1987  Ethiopia  Small Scale Irrigation & Const.                   7.00    5.13
CrA1M62        1967  Ethiopia  Fourth Livestock                                39.00    24.90
Cr.16n7        1988  Ethiopia  Education Vlt                                    70.00    71.3
Cr.1913        1968   Ethiopia   family Wealth                                 33.00   27.92
Cr.19f        1989   Ethiopia  PADEP I                                         85.00    11.29
Cr.2002        1969  Ethiopia  Transport                                        72.00    72.49
Cr.2103       1990   Ethfopia  iarket Tons Dev.                                40.20   39.74
Cr.2161        1990   Ethiopia  Second Addis Urban Dev.                         35.00   36.99
Cr.2351        192  Ethfopia  Emwgeny Recovery & Reconstruction Progrm   150.00   135.79
Total                                108.40  1382.87  577.58
of which repaid                   100.53   37.13
......   ............
Total held by Bank I IDA              8.07  1345.74
Amom.t sold           6.04
of which repaid   6.04
Total Undisbursed                                     577.58
ad  .o..E.A............... S
s/ go  'CAL*, MAs and Program Lon



-22 -
Schd4 D
aEM 2 of 3
. SAteM     of EC  nvestments in Ethioia
(as of Septembr 30, i12)
Amo4t in USS 1 illion
fsal                                 Type of                           ....................
YTr            ObLfgor               lfusinus                          Loan  Equlty   Totsl
Ce....         .......               ............   .....
1963, 1970,    DIRE DAIA             spfnning Wesving ard             3.40     1.42    4.82
1973                                 Finishing
1966           Ethfopfan Pulp       Nfg. of Pulp Paper & Pawrboard   0.00    2.11       2.11
16             NTMEU                 sugar Factories and               5.52    3.52    9.04
Ref menor
1989          Rled Sn              Crude Petrolte  and               0.00    7.80      7.80
Natural Gas
Total Gross Comottents                                 8.92    14.85   23.77
L"ss: repaypts, cancellations,
xchange adjustwnts,
terminatfons and sale                            s.92    7.05    15.97
Total CoMtments now held by IFC                                 7.80     7.80
Ttolt wwdma                                                     6.95     6.95
Total Outstanding IFC                                           0.85     0.85



- 23 -
Schdl D
Pae 3 of 3
DIlsbursernent Lsues
1.           The IDA portfolio for Ethiopia consists of 18 projects totalling US$884.7 million,
with about US$580 million undisbursed. Since FY81 gross disbursements have averaged US$54
million a year, with a peak of US$77 million in FY89 and FY90. Until about FY89,
implementation was generally satisfactory. Since then, as a result of the worsening civil war,
inadequate provision of counterpart funds and lack of construction materials has slowed down
implementation and disbursements. Over the last few years, there have also been recurring
problems in the application of IDA's procurement guidelines and in the timely preparation and
audit of financial accounts.
2.           Under the Agricultural Research project (Credit 1521 -ET), early Implementation
was slow due to severe droughts and delays in civil works construction. More recently and
despite the set back due to damages caused by the civil war, significant progress has been made in
strengthening major research programs, achieving closer collaboration with Internation and
Regional Research Centers, improving research services, and in manpower development.
3.           Disbursements on the Education VI project (Credit 1520-El) lagged due to
problems arising from shortages of building materials and of Government matching funds. At the
present time, however, more than 70% of the contracts for the physical works have been
committed and disbursements should accelerate.
4.           To accelerate the country's economic ^ ecovery under the Emergency Recovery
and Reconstruction program (ERRP), about US$80.7 million was reallocated from a number of
slow disbursing projects in the infrastructure (Credits 2002-ET and 2103-EI), agriculture (Credits
1782-FT and 1956-ME), energy (Credit 1704-El), and PHR sectors (Credits 1873-ET and 1913-
ET). Inplementaion of the related ERRP project (Credit 2351-EI), is quite satisfactory.



.  I    @      D--r  '1
/'        ii /g  I'I 
.     (e           r /                  I          t10  trW1    
W  , -                                 '/I
-|   W               >                           . a-  wK
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                 n .    i 



