Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11249-ET
STAFF AFPRAISAL REPORT
ETHIOPIA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
OCTOBER 29, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                                         Ethiopian Birr (Birr)
USS 1.00                                              Birr 5.0
Birr 1.00                                             USS 0.20
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT            -       Average Annual Daily Traffic
ADC             -       Animal Drawn Cart
ADT             -       Average Daily Traffic
AfDB            -       African Development Bank
BATCODA         -       Building and Transport Construction Design Authority
BNCE            -       Blue Nile Construction Enterprise
EASC            -       Ethiopian Audit Services Corporation
EEC             -       European Economic Community
ERA             -       Ethiopian Road Authority
ERR             -       Economic Rate of Return
ERRP            -       Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project
ESA             -       Ethiopian Standardization Authority
ETCA            -       Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority
ICB             -       International Competitive Bidding
LLT             -       Local Level Transport
MOTAC           -       Ministry of Transport and Communications
MOPW&UD         -       Ministry of Public Works & Urban Development
ONCCP           -       Office of the National Committee for Central Planning
PMS             -       Pavement Management System
pTA            -        Preferencial Trade Agreement
RRD             -       Rural Roads Department
RRP             -       Road Rehabilitation Project
RTA             -       Road Transport Authority
TCDE            -       Transport Construction Design Enterprise
TGE             -       Transitionsl Government of Ethiopia
UNCTAD          -       United Nations Conference for Trade and Development
UNDP            -       United Nations Development Program
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Ethiopia in September/October 1990,
comprising Mr. E. Irgens, Sr. Highway Engineer and mission leader, Mr. D. Jovanovic, Sr. Economist, Mrs. 1. Holt, Sr. Financial Analyst,
Mr. J. Howe (Consultant-Intermediate Means of Transport) and Mr. O.K. Sylte (Consultant-Highway Engineer) who reviewed the design for the
civil works in the project. Mr. J. Brown, Division Chief, joined the mission for its final discussion with the Government. The processing of the
Project was delayed as s result of the change of government in March 1991. The report was updated in March 1992. Ms. V. Neric-Nyberg,
Mr. Aviraj Chakranarayan, Janine Littleford and Erlinda Maliksi provided secretarial suppon in the preparation of the report. Mr. S. Weissman
and Mr. Francis Colago are the managing Division Chief and Department Director respectively for the operation.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
ROAD REHABILrrATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
Project Summary.                                                           i
I.     The Transport Sector
A. Country Background .1
B. The Transport System.                                                  2
C. Role of Transport in the Economy.                                      3
D. Transport Infrastructure and Operating Entities.                       4
E. Transport Sector Issues and Govermnent Policy.                         8
F. Past Bank Group Operations in the Sector .11
G. Bank Strategy .12
H. Rationale for the Bank's Involvement .12
II.     The Highwav Subsector
A. The Road Network    ..14
B. Traffic .15
C. Vehicle and Axle Load Regulations    ..15
D. Road Safety    ..17
E. Road Administration .17
F. Planning and Financing .19
G. Road Engineering and Construction Supervision    .      .19
H. Road Construction    ..20
1. Road Maintenance .20
J.   Training    .........................................               21
K. Accounting and Auditing .22
Ell.    Project Concept and Composition
A. Project Origin and Preparation       ..23
B. Project Objectives          ..23
C. Project Description          ..24
D. Cost Estimates    ..27
E. Financing .28
F. Implementation .30
G. Procurement   ..30
H. Disbursements    ..32
I. Reporting and Auditing .35
J. Environmental Impact .35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.    Economic Evauation
A. General ...........................                               37
B. Traffic on Addis Ababa - Asab Road .......................  37
C. Economic Analysis .....................                           38
D. Risks .........                ............ 40
V.    Agreements and Recommendation
A. Actions Already Taken         ....................  41
B. Agreements Reached    ..........              ..........  41
C. Conditions of Effectiveness ..........         ..........  42
D. Recommendation ..........                    ..........  42
ANNEXES:
1  Vehicle Fleet
2   Consumption of Petroleum Products
3   Volume of Cargo Transported by Road
4   Actual Recurrent Expenditure on Road Maintenance
5 Capital Expenditure on Roads
6 Revenue from Road User Charges
7   Structure of Fuel Prices
8   Organization Charts: ERA, MOHUD&C
9 PMS - Terms of Reference
10 Implementation Schedule
1 I Timetable for Implementation of New Axle Load Loegation
12 Summary of Economic Analyses
13 Project Progress Reporting Requirements and Supervision Plan
14 Road Maintenance Equipment
15 Training Program
MAP IBRD 22830



- L -
ROAD REAIITTO PRaE
CREDIT AND POETSUMMARY
Borower,                   The Gowernment of Ethiopia
Credit Amouxt:             SDR 66.4 mUlion (USS 96.0 million equivalent)
Crdit Terms:               Standard IDA terms with a marity of 40 years
anLt D   rWgot             The Project consists of:
(a)    Road Rehabilitation: widening and strengthening of 196 Am of
the main road betwwen Milk and Asa4b.
(b)    Pavement Management System. Design and implementation of
a pavement management system induding provision of
technical assistance, training and equipment.
(c)    Training, sector related studies and technical assistance to
MO TA C for the introduction of an efficient axle load control
system and to MOPW&UD for the detailed engineering for
civil works to be included in the next highway sector project,
andfor instftutional development.
The main benefitsfrom the road rehabfitation component will be
saWing in vehicle operating costs, maintenance cost savings, and an
increase in transport capacity. The Govermnent wUl also benefit by
avoiding otherwise costly road reconstruction In the future. The direct
beneficiaries of reduced transport costs and improved road safety will
be truck and bus owners/operators and passenger car users on the
project assisted part of the country's transport ltfdlne, the Addis
Ababa -Assab road LI The pavement management system will enable
the Ethopia Roads Authority to better monitor and plan road
maintenance of its paved road systenL
Security remains a problem In Ethiopia and there Is a possibility that
implementadon of the civU works might be offectd. Otherwise, there
is only limited risk connected with thde imlementation of the civil
works component of the Project, since the wor, wiU be carried out by
contracts awarded under ICB. Wth dth support of consultants for
LI    Anodhr Jecwiou 010 Adl Ababa-Asab road Li bein relkabed wit de asaaw 0' about US$42 mU
equivwknafrcmse Ajkai Dewlppme Bank



- ii -
procurement and saqerWision the ERA should have no dffWlculy In
managing the project. With respect to extending the lffc of the entire
road and the Project's objective of rehabUitating sectons In need of
urgent repairs, there is a risk that secions not Included in the Project
mightfaU and require investment sooner than antdicpated (MiUle-
Awash). This risk, howewer, is reduced by the inclusion in the Project
of the PMS with appropriate technical assistance during the itiW
stage. Also, the Project ncludes a componentfor the procurement of
road maintenance equipment which will inprove ERA's capacity to
carry out routine and periodic maintenance.
Another risk to the Project relates to the Implementation of a new
Axle Load Control System. The Axle Load Control System, khfch
aims at reducing overloading and preventing premature deterioration
of the reconstructed roads (as well as other sections of the paved road
system), may not be successful due to possible waknesses of RTA to
enforce filly the proposed system, or due to general soclo-behavioral
factors. Some risk is associated with the Pavement Management
System wich may not be successfully Implemented because of
possible organizational waknesses. These risks are reduced by the
fact that technical assistance will be provided under the Project. In
additon, Government has already in place the basic ifrastruaure for
vehicle axieload control-even if results are presently only used to
gather statistcal data.
US$ milions
*awQmonUnts                                    Lacal      Foreiagn    La
avil Works                                 20.3        68.1     88.4
Technical Assitance and
Training                              1.9        8.4     10.3
Equwpment                                   0.3        10.3     10.6
Total (net of taxes & duties)        22.5       86.8    109.3
Government                                 13.3         -       13.3
IDA                                         9.2        86.8     96.0
Total                                22.5       86.8    109.3



- iii -
Economic Rate of Return: 21.7%
sdmatd IDA Disbursemet
IDA FISCAL YEAR (VS$ Mllon)
LM       11    199S                    1: 292z.
Annual           2.0     17.0      19.0      30.0      22.0       6.0
Cumulative      2.0      19.0      38.0      68.0      90.0     96.0






A. C
1.01         Ethiopia, with an area of about 1.22 million km2, is one of the largest
countries in Africa. The topography of the country is rugged with the altitude ranging from
below sea level to 4,600 m. About 90 percent of the population lives in the rural areas, the
majority deriving their livelibood from settled peasant agriculture. Large parts of the country
are not suitable for cultivation andlor are vulnerable to drought. Under-exploited resources,
inappropriate economic policies and decades of disorder and civil war resulted in Ethiopia
being one of the poorest countries in the world with a per capita income of only S115 in
1990.
1.02         Annual GDP gowth averaged below 2 percent in the 1980s, compared with a
population growth rate of 2.9 percent p.a.; thus per capita income has been decliing. Slow
growth was primarily a result of droughts (1981/82, 1984/85 and 1987/88), nd an
intensifying civil war and increasing military expenditure. At the end of May 1991, the
political situation within Ethiopia changed with the overthrow of the Mengistu regime and the
installation of the Transitional Govenment. The end of the civil war provides the opporunity
to rebuild the devatated esonomic an social structures but has also fundamentally altered
Ethiopia's external transport systems with the de facto separation of Eritrea/ .
1.03         The agricultural sector dominates the economy through its size and its
influence on most other sectors. The sector has shown no growth in real value added during
the 1980's: cultivated area and yields have stagnated and output, even in years with normal
rainfall, has failed to moot growing domestic deman. Food imports have sharply increased,
mainly transported through Assab, and food security has become a major issue. An important
factor in the poor performance of the mral sector has been the inadequate coverage and
quality of the road infrastructure uan the generad dependence on traditional means of transport
- walking and horses for personal mobUiity, headloading and pack animals for freight
transport. Heatloading is one of the most burdensome chores affecting women in the rural
areas and the time that ha to be devoted to transport is a critical constraint to increased
production.
1.04         While the Meagistu regime adopted an economic reform package in 1989/90
with the objective of developing a market orientated, mixed economy, little was actually
achieved. The new Trasitional Government aims to bring about a major restructuring of the
economy. Its now economic policy stament calls for a significant reduction in the role of
the state in production and trd, the development of the private sector and a progressive shift
from adminitative regulation to marikt-determined decisions. The new government, having
inherited the insdtutions, struc    ad regulations of a centrally plannd economy, laces
major tasks. Th3 hUg st   ctor hu suppressed the development of the private sector ad
has failed in many areas to respond to the priority development needs of the country.
1.05         The Bank's overal objectve is to asist the Government to restructure the
economy, accelerate economic growth and improve living conditions. In the short-term
iqow jqjw ,4'5g4W uji hpem. ow it byk A.o Awimdvininu A.6um %*hk S9. gum ii. ry.ew IAI.giI.*MO kg
ad                          __                  __                   >_< so&-&



-2-
however there is the urgent need to help the country restart essential economic activities,
rebuild vital social services and repair the infrastructure and facilities upon which they
depend. The Bank, together with other donors, has, therefore, responded with an Emergency
Recovery and Reconstruction Project (ERRP, Cr. 2351-ET). This, it is hoped, will provide
sufficient support to economic reactivation to allow the Government to take the next steps
necessary for the major restructuring of the economy through an adjustment program.
B. The Transport System
1.06          Recent political developments have introduced considerable uncertainty over
the coming years into Ethiopia's overall transport system with the effective loss of control
over the Red Sea ports of Assab and Massawa. At present, therefore, Ethiopia has become,
de facto, a landlocked country and is only now developing the necessary legal and
administrative agreements with Eritrea which are essential for the development of an efficient
transit system. As with other landlocked countries in Africa, it is unlikely that Ethiopia wIll
be prepared to accept total reliance on a single transit route or transit country and thus
increased use of other outlets to the sea, such as Djibouti but also possibly Port Sudan,
Berbera and for Mombasa, must be expected.
1.07          The Ethiopian road network is characterized by three features: i) the existing
network is old, ii) there is lack of low volume roads iii) traffic volume is low on about 80
percent of the network. Even before the recent disruption to traditional routes and facilities,
Ethiopia's transport system was inadequate to support efficient production or distribution and
represented a serious obstacle to the country's economic and social development. The
highway network is underdeveloped; with 19,020 km of classified roads (of which only 4,100
km are paved) and an additional 15,000 km lower standard rural road, roads average only 0.3
km per 1,000 people, virtually the lowest in Africa. Moreover, most of the existing primary
road network is old and needs rehabilitation or upgrading. Vehicle operating costs are high
and traffic flows are low. Other problems contributing to the inadequacy of the transport
system include: a shortage of road transport; insufficient port, rail and customs' capacity,
inappropriate government policies that have supported parastatals rather than the private sector
in road transport, freight forwarding and trade facilitation; and operational and managerial
problems within a number of transport entities themselves.
1.08          In addition to its highway network, Ethiopia's transport system includes road
access to two ports (Assab and Massawa, both in Eritrea) and road and rail access to the Port
of Djibouti, a small maritime shipping operations, some incidental river and lake transport,
and air transport operations at three international airports (Addis Ababa, Dire Dawa and
Asmara which is now in Eritrea) and approximately 30 scattered airfields and airstrips.
Transport operating entities in the sector include a road transport regulatory authority, a road
freight transport parastatal, a passenger transport parastatal, a jointly owned (with Djibouti)
railway, a port authority which has no longer an effective function, a freight forwarding
parastatal, a national shipping line and a national airline.



-3 -
C. Role of Transport In the Economy
1.09          Development of surface transport in Ethiopia has been seriously limited by
wide topographical variations, extremely rugged terrain, severe climatic conditions and a
widely-dispersed population, factors which make construction of transport infrastructure not
only physically difficult but also extremely costly. The primary highway network consists of
radial extensions from Addis Ababa, there are few interconnecting links between adjacent
regions and the feeder road network is grossly insufficient. Large parts of Ethiopia remain
isolated and depend entirely upon pack animals or human carriers for transport. Nearly three-
quarters of all farms are more than a half-day walk from an all-weather road. Road
development has been especially deficient in the agriculturally rich west of the country. Since
about 89 percent of the total population is rural and 85 percent employed in agriculture, the
lack of roads, particularly rural and feeder roads, is a significant economic and social
constraint.
1.10           As mentioned previously, an increasingly large proportion of the road
network needs rehabilitation or upgrading. The condition of the country's main route, the
861 km road which connects the capital of Addis Ababa with the Port of Assab on the Red
Sea, gives rise to the greatest concern. Due to age, overloading and inadequate maintenance,
sections are now deteriorating and the road has become a serious bottleneck to economic
recovery. Since about 2.6 million tons, including 82 percent of Ethiopia's total exports and
imports, are transported annually on the road, its importance cannot be over-emphasized.
UInless action is taken in the very near future, continuing deterioration will substantially
increase vehicle operating costs and the cost of eventual road reconstruction. Further
deterioration in the road condition would exacerbate the present chronic shortage of transport
which already constrains the movement of petroleum, food relief and other critically needed
imports. Rehabilitation of this vital transport link is thus urgently needed and is the focus of
the proposed Proiect.
1.11          Traffic volumes are low on all but the busiest trunk roads, reflecting the poor
extent of market integration of rural Ethiopia, the lack of feeder roads, and most particularly,
chronic shortages of road transport, a problem which has become increasingly serious.
Ethiopia's vehicle fleet is insufficient to meet demand and the import of new vehicle has not
even matched normal replacement needs. The present shortage is the consequence of: (i)
past Government policies that favored public trucking over the private sector; (ii) a centralized
transport allocation system that led to rigidities in the supply of transport services, lowered
utilization of vehicles and roads and discouraged new investment; (iii) control of tariffs and
failure to update tariffs to ensure cost recovery by truck operators; (iv) very limited allocation
of foreign exchange, particularly for the private sector, for spares and for new vehicles; and,
more recently, (v) the destruction of trucks during the war.
1.12          The shortage of truck transport has contributed very substantially to the very
severe cargo congestion at the Port of Assab where port operations are critically constrained
by the lack of available space in the port and the shortage of port handling equipment.
Increasing the effective capacity of the trucking sector, through the provision of additional
vehicles, spares and tires, is a major objective of both the Transport Project (CR 2002-ET)
and the ERRP.



-4 -
1.13         The extension of the road system and access to motorized transport will be a
slow process and it is likely the majority of the rural population will remain dependent upon
non-motorized transport for many years to come. The human and economic costs of
dependence upon these traditional forms of transport is high. An average Ethiopian rural
household is estimated to spend about 2600 hours per year on transport, 60 percent for fuel
and water. More than 70 percent of this transport is undertaken by women. Time spent on
transport is a major factor limiting the effectiveness of efforts to expand agriculture and
establish a market economy. As population expands and sources of firewood and water
become more scarce, rural transport will become an even greater development constraint.
Animal transport in Ethiopia could be vastly more productive if trails were improved, carts
better designed, skills of local producers enhanced, and the supply of parts and raw materials
for the manufacture and repair of carts and other intermediate means of transport, expanded.
Government is adressing these issues in their Policy paper on Rural Roads and Transport,
presently under preparation.
1.14           The transport sector only contributes about six percent to GDP and its
inadequacy is very costly to the country. This received world wide attention during the
droughts when food aid put enormous strains on the port and inland transport resulting in
significant delays in distribution. The economic repercussions from the inadequate
infrastructure and reliance on inefficient parastatals are not, however, limited to periods of
drought; they represent an enormous obstacle to economic development, integration of
markets, export development and the efficient use of imports.
D. Transport Infrastructure and Oerating Entities
1.15         Roads. The highway sector is discussed in detail in Chapter II.
1.16         Road transport on the main corridor and throughout the country was, for
many years, tightly regulated and controlled by the Govermnent. Tariffs were set and
enforced by the Road Transport Authority (RTA), under the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MOTAC). This situation is now changing and control, under the
Transitional Government, has been relaxed if not eliminated. Road transport is in a
transitional stage toward market-orientated, private sector industry. RTA also determines
routes, approves vehicle licenses, promulgates and enforces safety and axle load regulations.
1.17         Freight Transport by Road. Commercial freight transport (there are also truck
fleets operated by relief agencies, carrying food aid) is undertaken by a government-owned
trucking parastatal, the Ethiopian Freight Transport Corporation (EFTC) and by a fairly large
number of private owner-operators, called "Associates' (about 4,500). Together, public and
private trucks transported about 5.0 million tons in 1990/91, 91 percent of all inland
transport in the country (Annex 3). In an effort to prevent abuses related to the shortage of
vehicles in the country, the previous Governrnent established a cargo allocation system by
which EFTC controlled the allocation of commercial road transport in Ethiopia. The country
was divided into six zones, or 'ketanas." EFTC allocated trucks, both its own and those of
the private sector, to each of those zones and within those zones, allocated loads and routes to
individual trucks. EFTC was paid 5 percent of the Associates' contract price for this
brokerage role. While well-intentioned perhaps, the rigid system led to significant economic
distortions and discouraged entry of new capacity into the sector.



-5-
1.18         This central control of the private sector has weakened in recent months and
in its draft economic statement the Transitional Government has stated that it will no longer
be compulsory for private truckers to be members of ketanas. Increasingly specific contracts
for the movement of cargo are being negotiated between shipper and transporter, although
EFTC often acts as the intermediary and still collects its commission. Although de facto
deregulation of road transport has taken place for some traffics it is not yet universal and
further action by Government is necessary (para 1.43).
1.19         In terms of capacity, the combined fleet of EFTC and the private sector is
inadequate for the size of Ethiopia's population and does not meet Ethiopia's present transport
needs (Annex 1.) The problem is compounded by the age of the private sector fleet (average
age over 18 years), and the shortage of spares and tires which all lead to low rates of vehicle
availability and limited vehicle utilization. EFTC itself operates a fleet of over 1,000
vehicles, standardized to 3 - 4 makes, with an average age of 8 years but with a vehicle
availability of less than 50 percent. The privately-owned Associate fleet totals 6,400 trucks of
assorted makes. Replacement of private sector vehicles, in particular, has been extremely
limited due to lack of foreign exchange and to the fact that earnings are insufficient to cover
investment costs.
1.20         Lack of foreign exchange has prevented both EFTC and the private sector
from being able to renew its fleet, much less expand it. EFTC has budgeted the purchase of
300 vehicles per year in each of the last five years but has only been able to acquire a total of
214. Only 30 tankers out of proposed purchases of 400 have been bought in the same period.
Meanwhile attrition and loss of vehicles to hostilities have reduced the vehicle fleet. Lack of
foreign exchange for spare parts has also harnpered operations. Actual purchases for spares
totalled Birr 10.7 million in the last three years versus planned average annual expenditures of
Birr 32.0 million. The private sector has imported virtually no vehicles as the import tariffs
were, until recently, Birr 300,000 or US$ 140,000 per vehicle. Due to the shortage of
effective trucking capacity, there is an enormous backlog of registered freight waiting to be
moved.
1.21         The Bank is assisting Government in its efforts to increase trucking capacity
through the ongoing Transport Project Cr. 2002 - ET and the ERRP. It is now agreed by
Government that trucking is most effectively undertaken by the private sector. Most of the
additional capacity is targeted at growth in the private sector and the Government has
announced that it intends to restructure and privatize at least part of EFTC. Investment by the
private trucking industry will be very limited if operators cannot earn enough to continue
operating. Currently, in the remaining controlled sector, truck operators are transporting
goods on a ten year old tariff that was considered insufficient to cover total costs in 1986. To
cover costs, truckers operate in the deregulated sector or overload. The overloading of
vehicles has contributed significantly to the premature deterioration of the Addis Ababa -
Assab road as well as other sections in the network, adding significantly to the cost of road
maintenance. On paved roads it has been estimated that the official tariff would need to be
doubled to reflect full vehicle costs in the present operating evnironment and even higher
tariffs would be necessary on unpaved roads. In conjunction with the ERRP the Government
raised tariffs by 70 percent on main road and agreed to complete deregulation of tariffs by 31
December 1992.



- 6 -
1.22         Passenger TransDort by Road. Bus service is by far the most important means
of motorized passenger transport in Ethiopia. Otherwise, in urban areas, travel is done by
foot, taxi or car; in rural areas, where roads are few, trips are made on foot or by horse or
donkey. Rail and air passenger travel is small compared to the number of passenger trips
made by bus. Commercial bus transport is undertaken by both public and private sectors but
all services are controlled by the Ethiopia Passenger Transport Corporation (EPTC). The
majority of services are provided by private operators; long distance bus transport is 70 - 75
percent private sector, over 90 percent on the Addis Ababa-Assab road. EPTC establishes
bus routes and schedules and dispatches buses owned and operated by independent bus owners
and by the Governrnent. Commercial bus transport in the private sector consists of about 160
owners with approximately 2,600 buses of various sizes; about 300 large buses are for long
distance routes. EPTC owns a fleet of about 400 buses providing city transport in Addis
Ababa, Jimma and Asmara as well as some intercity services.
Other Transport Modes
1.23         Railway. An old and rather rundown railway supplements road capacity to
the Red Sea, connecting Addis Ababa with Djibouti, about 150 Ikm south of Assab. Jointly
owned by Ethiopia and Djibouti, the Chemin de Fer Djibouti-Ethiopia (CDE) is operated
under the provisions of a 1981 treaty. The 781 km, meter gauge, single line has almost no
ballasting and is characterized by sharp curves, steep gradients and low embankments. Rail
capacity is limited by track conditions, operating difficulties and managerial problems.
Imports carried include fertilizer, iron and steel, and containers while exports include
molasses and sugar and some containers of textiles and hides and skins. The CDE operates
with a small deficit and has been trying to improve operations with the help of a limited
rehabilitation program financed by the EEC and France. Without additional investment and,
more important, changes in the treaty that would permit better management, it is doubtful
whether traffic on the rail route could increase much beyond the present level of 300,000
tons. The ERRP is providing limited assistance to CDE to maintain existing capacity until
longer-term plans and assistance are agreed.
1.24         Pr. Ethiopia is served by three major ports: Assab, Massawa and Djibouti.
In the late 1980's approximately 85 percent of Ethiopia's foreign trade was handled by Assab,
8 percent by Massawa and 7 percent by Djibouti. The port of Assab and the main road
inland to Addis Ababa, therefore, represents Ethiopia's most important outlet to the sea.
Gradual extension of the Assab port started under the Port Engineering and Construction
Project (Cr. 1676-ET) in 1986. By early 1989, when the construction of the tug berth under
the Credit was completed, Assab had seven berths available for commercial shipping with an
annual capacity of about 1.6 million tons of dry cargo. To handle general traffic growth and
drought relief cargo, major expansion of the port was assessed to have high priority and,
under the on-going Transport Project (Cr. 2002-ET), African Development Bank (AfDB) was
providing funds to construct two multipurpose berths which would increase capacity to about
3 million tons per year. The berths were expected to be completed in late 1992. The
assumption of power by the Provisional Government in Eritrea and their control of Assab and
Massawa has brought construction to a halt and this project has now been terminated.



-7 -
1.25         The Ethiopian parastatal, Marine Transport Authority (MTA), used to be
responsible for the operation, management and development of Assab and Massawa. MTA
was well managed and operated with considerable administrative autonomy. The port of
Assab is now managed by an Eritrean parastatal, created after the de facto separation of
Eritrea. A port agreement has been made between the Provisional and Transitional
Governments but unfortunately the port has no international legal persona and this may
continue to deter the conference line from calling at Assab. In recent months the Transitional
Government has organized a major effort to clear the back log of cargo from the Port and
congestion has been substantially reduced. Port capacity at Assab remains, however, a weak
link in Ethiopia's international transport network. The new top management is not
experienced in port operations and many of the decisions are centralized in Asmara. The
essential ancillary services necessary for port operations, such as banking and
communications, are still being created. Labor productivity in the port of Assab continues,
however, to be better than average for East African ports.
1.26         In view of the legal and operational problems at Assab it is probable that
greater use will be made of the Port of Djibouti. The port is efficient and, even before the
present expansion, had excess capacity. The port is also served by the major shipping lines
which have ceased operating to Assab. Use of Djibouti has, in the past, been restricted by
the limited capacity of the railway and regulations effectively preventing the use of road
transport. It is unlikely that there will be major expansion in rail capacity, at least in the
immediate future, but efforts are being made to facilitate the use of road transport. The track
from Dire Dawa to Dewale on the Ethiopia/Djibouti border has been improved by the
Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA) and is under constant maintenance as there are no
permanent structures. A second link via Dubi on the Mille-Assab road is paved but would
need strengthening if heavy commercial traffic increased. Inside Djibouti the roads are good
and well maintained. Restrictions on the use of trucks are being lifted and road transit
formalities streamlined. As soon as the security problems within both Ethiopia and Djibouti
are settled a rapid increase in the use of Djibouti, especially for non-bulk cargo, can be
expected.
1.27         The Maritime and Transit Services Corporation (MTSC), a parastatal
company operated under the responsibility of MOTAC, is presently the sole shipping and
transit agency in Ethiopia. An amalgamation of more than 30 forwarding agencies that
originally operated in the private sector, MTSC was put in place after the revolution and has
proved to be a significant bottleneck to the efficient movement of goods. The situation has
further deteriorated with the creation of an 'Eritrean MTSC' in Assab which handles the
clearance of cargo while 5 employees from "Ethiopian MTSC' operate from a hotel playing a
coordinating role. The Bank's Transport Corridor Analysis (Report No. 6554-ET), published
June 1987, detailed the inadequacies of the previous system and equipment and technical
assistance were to be provided under Transport Project (CR 2002-ET) to assist in reform.
Under the new circumstances in the ports there is the urgent need to allow private clearing
and forwarding agents to provide services in the ports and within Ethiopia. The ending of
MTSC's monopoly was recommended in previous studies and this reform has now been
agreed by the Transitional Government.
1.28         The Transport Project (CR 2002-ET) also includes assistance to streamline
procedures within the Ethiopian Customs and Excise Administration (ECEA). Fortunately
customs clearance has not been very significantly affected by the change in circumstances at



- 8 -
Assab. Although ECEA no longer has an office in the port, it is permitted to clear cargo at
the same time that it is being examined by Eritrean customs officials. Improvement to
customs procedures are still necessary, however, and there is also now the need to establish
an efficient transit arrangement for the use of the Red Sea ports.
1.29         Inland Waterways. Some minor inland water transport (there are three lakes
and two navigable rivers) supplements road and rail transport in the country but tonnage
carried by water is relatively insignificant.
1.30         Air Transport. Air transport is fairly well-developed and the best performing
transport mode. Ethiopian Airlines and a number of foreign carriers serve two of the
international airports (Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa) and Ethiopian Airlines also provides an
extensive domestic service. Management of the airports and airfields is undertaken by the
Civil Aviation Authority, under the aegis of MOTAC. Ethiopian Airlines, a parastatal
company under MOTAC, has been in service for over 40 years, provides scheduled services
to about twenty countries and is currently in the process of expanding, particularly in freight
operations. Excellent management combined with financial and managerial autonomy has
resulted in the company operating profitably and earning its reputation as one of the best
airlines in Africa.
1.31         Ethiopian Shippine Lines. Ethiopian Shipping Lines Corporation, a parastatal
company under MOTAC, was established in 1964, began operations in 1966 and currently
owns  11 vessels with a capacity of about 80,000 dwt. Operating at a profit, it transported
about 500,000 tons in 1989/90, or 20 percent of Ethiopian external trade.
E. Transport Sector Issues and Government Policy
1.32         Government Strategy. Both the present and previous Governments have
recognized the importance transport can and should play in developing the economy and have
placed high priority on transport investments. In its last public investment program, the
previous Government gave transport investment the highest priority and road
maintenance/rehabilitation and increased transport capacity are two of the major components
of the ERRP. Despite the emphasis given to transport-the total length of the road network
doubled between 1970 to 1986-inadequate infrastructure and transport operating capacity
remain major constraints to economic and social development.
1.33         While the Transitional Governmnent continues to place great emphasis on the
transport sector there has been a significant shift in policy toward greater reliance on the
private sector for the provision of road transport services. The previous regime was slowly
moving toward liberalization of the sector but had achieved relatively little change. The
Transitional Government has not yet developed a full strategy for the sector and is primarily
concerned, at present, with the repair of the existing infrastructure and increasing trucking
capacity to meet emergency needs. Sector work, such as that proposed for a Rural Road
Strategy, is continuing. Many major policy decisions taken within the context of the overall
strategic commitment to reduce the role of the state in the provision of transport and related
ancillary services have yet to be fully implemented.



-9 -
1.34         Capital Expenditures. During recent discussions with IDA, Government
indicated that its road investment policy will continue to give high priority to (i) the
rehabilitation of the road network, particularly of the Addis-Assab road; (ii) improving
intermediate means of transport for the rural population; (iii) judiciously increasing the trunk
road network; and (iv) developing the rural and feeder road network.
1.35         Actual investments in the sector in the 5 year period (1984/85 - 1988/89 were
about Birr 950 million (US$459 million); investment in roads (including periodic maintenance
and rehabilitation) was about 61 percent; the balance was spent on air transport,
ports/shipping, trucking and the CDE railway. Investment in new road construction was only
Birr 225.5 million (US$109 million) relatively little in view of the low density of the road
network. A new road program is being prepared by ERA and will be reviewed with
Ethiopian authorities in conjunction with the preparation of a Third Road Sector Project. An
increase in the rural road program is of critical importance to achieving agricultural
development objectives.
Recurrent Expenditures. Pricing and Cost Recovery
1.36         Rod. Despite the Government's commitment to the funding and carrying
out of road maintenance, the actual resources allocated have been insufficient to maintain the
network. Road maintenance expenditure in 1989/90 was about Biff 51 million or US$25.0
million, about US$1,315/km. This expenditure is within the range of needs for 'normal'
maintenance, but the age of the network and past neglect create much greater needs.
Unfortunately, the problems of underfunding is compounded by the allocation of the funds:
the ERA is overstaffed and too much is spent on salaries and too little on equipment and
materials. ERA recognizes the inadequacy of maintenance and has asked Government to
increase substantially the allocation for maintenance (para. 2.16).
1.37         In terms of cost recovery, the revenues from road users are greater than total
annual expenditures on roads including investments. Revenues from road users have been on
the rise and in 1990/91 reached Biff 230.3 million (Annex 6). The increase in revenues was
due to Government's efforts to mobilize additional resources. Total road expenditures, both
capital and recurrent, have also increased to about Biff 93.5 million in 1989/90. While total
road user revenues are sufficient to meet total road expenditures it would appear that more
specific road user charge revenue (revenue in excess of the level that would be generated by
applying the average rate of import duties and other taxes to vehicle operating cost inputs) are
neither sufficient to meet total road costs nor to meet the attributable costs of specific vehicle
categories. User charges are thus lowest on commercial vehicles which impose by far the
greatest road costs. The issue of appropriate road user taxation policies will be raised within
the context of on-going transport strategy discussions.
1.38         Road Transport. Pricing of road transport has not been cost based and the
existing road tariffs go back to 1981. Under the Transport Project (CR-2002-ET) the
Government agreed to introduce by mid-1990 new commnercially based tariffs in transport.
By the beginning of 1992, the new tariffs had, however, been neither introduced nor agreed.
Therefore, during negotiations of the ERRP, it was agreed that, in view of the size of the
tariff increases required, the intrinsic shortcomings of administered tariffs and the fact that
market-set prices in the deregulated sectors reflect operating costs, deregulation of all road
tariffs was a much better policy than raising the official tariffs (see para 1.21).



- 10-
1.39         In the road transport sector, scarcity of foreign exchange and insufficient
earnings have resulted in inadequate expenditure on spares. Private truckers earnings are
not sufficient and EFTC's trucking operations have been operating at a substantial loss.
EFTC managed to remain financially solvent only because trucking operations were cross-
subsidized by revenues associated with operations of the ketana system and from the sales of
fuel and spare parts to the private sector. For the fiscal year ended July 7, 1990, EFTC lost
about Birr 17 million (US$8.5 million) on revenues of Birr 76 million (US$38 million). The
loss reflects the facts that its tariffs were too low and its labor costs were too high (Birr 25
million). The Transitional Government has announced its intention to privatize all or part of
EFTC's operations, but no decisions have been taken on the form that such privatization will
take.
1.40         Fue. Government's policy is not to subsidize fuel and currently fuel prices
are based on a price of about US$30 per barrel. Fuel taxes, however, are relatively low, 20
percent of the sale price (Annex 7).
1.41         Axle Load Control. Heavy overloading contributed substantially to pavement
deterioration especially on the Addis Ababa - Assab road. Ethiopia does not have an axle
load control system fully operating despite such a requirement having been a covenant in the
ongoing Second Highway Project. New axle load legislation which set more appropriate axle
load limits was passed in 1990 and Government must now begin enforcing it. Procurement of
needed weizhbridge equipment is a component of the proposed Proiect.
1.42         Functional Classification System. Ethiopia does not have a functional
classification system for the road network and, as a result, there is confusion regarding
maintenance standards and responsibilities. The establishment of such a system has been
agreed under the pronosed Proiect.
1.43         Need To Increase Support of the Private Sector. Past support of publicly
owned parastatals rather than private sector companies has inhibited the growth of efficient
transport in Ethiopia. In particular, there is a need to open up freight forwarding and to
increase competition in the transport sector. Additionally, private sector involvement in road
construction and periodic maintenance should now be encouraged. Development of Ethiopia's
domestic construction industry was an objective of the ongoing Second Highway Sector
Project but lack of access to foreign exchange, inability to open a foreign account overseas,
lack of autonomy over its staff and hiring, have handicapped private sector performance and
hurt its ability to survive over the long term. Additionally, the extent of Government's
continued use of force account units within the Ministry of Construction and Urban
Development for highways and other civil works projects reflects a lack of commitment to
private sector development. In view of the Government's new commitment to private sector
development, it is hoped that serious efforts will be made to privatise firms such as Blue Nile
Construction Enterprise or, at the very least, give them real autonomy and open the sector to
competition. Provisions are made in the Proiect to finance technical assistance to carry out
related studies.



- 11 -
F. Past Bank Group Operations in the Sector
1.44         In the transport sector, the Bank Group has committed about US$282 million
for eight road projects, one port project and one transport project. In addition, support for
road maintenance also forms an important component of ERRP. The first three road projects
concentrated on main roads, while the subsequent ones emphasized institution building and
construction of secondary and rural roads and road rehabilitation and maintenance. The last
two road projects have been sector projects supporting the government's overall road sector
programs. Bank Group lending in the roads sub-sector has been generally successful,
particularly in achieving physical targets. The First Road Sector Project (Cr. 708-ET
approved in 1977) was carried out over the 1977-84 period. The main components were:
strengthening/upgrading of selected sections of the road network (650 kIm), construction of
rural roads (1,350 km), assistance to domestic construction industry and technical assistance
and training. While the road construction targets were generally met, the Project did not meet
its objectives of increasing road maintenance and improving sector policy in regard to vehicle
weight regulation and adjustments in road user charges. The on-going Second Road Sector
Project (Cr. 1404-ET approved in 1983) includes a sizeable program for roads to be
constructed or strengthened; however, the program targets were revised to respond better to
new priorities and needs arising from the drought and to take account of reduced Government
and external resources available for the Project. With regard to policy issues addressed in the
Project, the Government has complied with the majority of covenants agreed upon. However,
the axle load legislation was enacted late in 1990 and is just being applied; and a new road
classification system is still under review. The Project is four years behind SAR estimates,
due to initially slow implementation on the main civil works component, the Nekempte-Bure
road which is now nearly completed. The quality of work is good and valuable transfer of
know-how has taken place during project execution. The Project will be completed by
mid-1993.
1.45         The Port Project (Cr. 1676-ET approved in 1986), which included
construction of a tug berth in Assab, procurement of equipment and studies, was considered
to be an emergency operation as port congestion was so severe during the drought of 1985
that it was necessary to make more room for ships. By constructing a new tug berth (1989)
and by implementing other project components aimed at reducing transport bottlenecks and
improving the flow of goods along the main transport corridor in Ethiopia the congestion was
somewhat reduced.
1.46         The Transport Project (Cr. 2002-ET approved in 1989) was designed to take a
comprehensive sectoral approach to addressing the most urgent needs in the port, in road
transport, in freight forwarding and in customs and trade facilitation. To this end, the
project included port expansion, provision of additional trucks for EFTC and the private
owner-operators, measures to improve EFTC and a multi-modal transport facilitation program
to be implemented by UNCTAD. Implementation of the project has been interrupted by the
recent political changes. Some restructuring of the project has taken place to meet
emergency needs in conjunction with the ERRP and to reflect changes in the sector and
further restructuring is now under discussion with the Government to bring the project into
line with its emerging private sector oriented policies for transport.



- 12 -
1.47         The ERRP incude support for the periodic maintenance of the priority road
network (IJS$50 million), the replacement of civil aviation communications and safety
equipment destroyed in the war (USSS million) and limited assistance to road passenger
transport (US$4 million).
G. Au's Stratea
1.48         The Bank's overall country strategy is to assist in 'jump-starting' the economy
while discussions take place on a major economic adjustment program. The Bank's strategy
in the transport sector, within this program, is to maintain and strengthen a functioning basic
transport network with the capacity to meet the transport demands which will be generated by
a reviving economy and to improve the overall transport system within the rural areas of
Ethiopia.
1.49         To this end, the Bank has been supporting rehabilitation and improvement of
critically needed investments in highway and port infrastructure, promoting more efficient
operations within Ethiopia's transport operating companies both through institutional
development measures (such a technical assistance, training, development of cost accounting
and tariff systems) and provision of equipment (such as cargo handling for the port and trucks
for road transport). At the same time the Bank has promoted implementation of policy
measures that would enhance transport operations including: (i) tariff reform to ensure cost
recovery of port, road transport and freight forwarding operations; (ii) measures to improve
road maintenance and establish an axle load control system so as to preserve investments in
the road sector; (iii) intermodal and trade facilitation measures to reduce paperwork and
cumbersome procedures in customs and cargo handling in general; and (iv) following
Government's recent major decisions on economic policy, support for deregulation of road
transport and development of private sector operations in road transport and freight
forwarding.
1.50         In addition to rebabilitating a critical element of Ethiopia's road network, the
proposed Project is designed to build upon some institutional measures in the on-going Second
Road Sector Project (Cr. 1404-ET). Implementation of a Pavement Management System
should enable ERA to optimize the use of limited road maintenance funds by improving its
overall road maintenance planning. Provision of technical assistance and training to assist in
implementation of an axle load control system should reduce premature deterioration of this
and other roads in the country.
H. Ratdile For lb. Bank's Involvement
1.51         The primary purpose of the Project is to finance urgently needed rehabilitation
on Ethiopia's main transport lifeline to ensure that it remains open and functional. Arresting
deterioration of the Mille-Assab road and upgrading selected portions where capacity is a
constraint is essential to Ethiopia's economic recovery. Timely rehabilitation also will avert
the need to make investments in more costly reconstruction at a later date.



- 13 -
1.52         The need to repair this road is crucW   becaue there is lite doubt that the
route will remain a primary link between Addis Ababa and the Red Sea. Though trffic on
routes to Djiboud will probably increae, Asuab Is likely to continue as Ethiopia's main port
for bulk traffic. Rehabilitation of some sections of the Addis Ababa - Ausb road wu
included in the on-going Second Highway Sector Project but funds were insufficient to
undertake more than a small section.



- 14 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR
A. The Road Network
2.01            In terms of surface standard, the classified road network in Ethiopia consists of
19,020 km of all weather roads, of which 4115 km are paved, 8,943 km are graveled, and the
balance 5,962 km are unsurfaced roads. With a total land area of 1.22 sq.km., this road network has
one of the lowest density in Africa (15.2/1000 sq.km). A large proportion of these roads was built in
the 1930s and 1940s and it is remarkable that these roads have been able to serve the increasingly
heavy traffic for such a long period. The functional road classification system (which should have
been revised under the on-going Second Road Sector Project), divides the network into Primary (1000
km), Feeder (4000 km) and Rural Roads (5000 km). "Rural Roads' refers to the lowest class of the
classified network. In addition there are some 20,000 km non-classified rural roads - mainly farm-to-
market roads 1/. There is in the present system some confusion between the classification of roads
and the type/geometric standard of the road. A proper functional classification system will enable
Government to define responsibilities, maintenance standards and development strategies for the
various classes of roads. The types of road should be defined in the Design Manual and reflect the
geometric design and the bearing capacity governed by the Average Daily Traffic (ADT) and the
vehicle distribution. At negotiations it was agreed that ERA will adopt a new road classification
system by December 31. 1993 (Para 5.2).
2.02           Road transport is the dominant form of moden transport in Ethiopia, but due to the
low density of modern roads, large parts of Ethiopia remain isolated and dependent upon pack
animals or human carriers for transport. Road development has been especially deficient in the
agriculturally rich areas in the West. In terms of ton/km and passenger/km, the bulk of the transport
is carried outside the formal road system.
2.03            As a result of age, overloading and deficient road maintenance, both routine and
periodic, over many years, a large backlog of periodic maintenance work has accumulated and the
road network is now approaching the stage where a large proportion will need rehabilitation or
strengthening in the next three to five years if costly reconstruction work is to be avoided.
Table 2.1: CLASSIFIED ROAD NETWORK BY SURFACE CATEGORY
Year             Bitumen          Gravel           Earth           TotaL            Change
Km             Km               Km              Km                 x
1982/83            3768             8790            3609           16167               -
1983/84             3821            8903            4162           1688&              4.4
1984/85            3977             8455            4079           16511              -2.2
1985/86            3957             8524            4539           17020              3.1
1986/87            4072             8715            5266           18053              6.1
1987/88             4095            8849            5712           18656              3.3
1988/89             4115            8943            5962           19020              2.0
1989/90            4115             8943            5962           19020              0.0
SOURCE: ERA, Addis Ababa, 1991
LI     77Te terms Rural Roads tends to be used in at least 3 different senses:
OT)     The lowest class of classified roads.
fii)    As a Standard of road in terms of geometry.
(iii)    The general &sefor describing all non-classif/ed; farm-to-market roads.



- 15 -
B. Trafri
2.04          Regular traffic surveys have been carried out since 1957. Counts are carried out by
ERA (previously ETCA) at designated counting stations on a regular basis; they are taken about three
times a year for seven consecutive days covering about 80 percent of the all weather road network.
Relatively high traffic volumes have been observed along most of the road sections radiating from the
capital especially along the import/export corridor. The vehicle fleet (Annex 1) in 1989/91 amounted
to 58,738 vehicles; that is about 1.15 vehicles per 1,000 people - the lowest in Africa. Due to old
age of the fleet and virtually no replacement, its size has been declining over the last five years.
2.05          The most trafficked road in the country is the Addis Ababa - Assab road with sections
between Addis Ababa and Nazreth carrying over 2,000 vehicles per day (Table 2.2). The unusually
high proportion of heavy vehicles on the road between Addis Ababa and Assab on the Red Sea is due
to the fact that about 85 percent of the total export/import trade is carried on this route, and few
private cars use the road for security reasons. Between Mille and Assab the ADT is about 500
v.p.d.. Here, truck-trailer combinations is significant and constitute about 60 percent of the ADT.
Tabe 2.2: TRAFFIC ON ADDIS-ASSA8 ROAD
(ADT) *
- ---   1988                                        1989-
ROAD SECTION       LENGTH CA    BUSES  TRUCKS   T/T  TOTAL          CARS      S  TRUCK$   T    TOTAE
Addis-Nazareth     98      668   394   679        263  2004         795   482    911       427  2615
Nazareth-Awash     125      86    75   217        312   690          89    77    228       328   722
Awash-Mille        308      32    14    97        282   425          51    19    108       396   515
Mitle-Assab        368      22    11   162        278   473          23    11    170       292   496
SOURCE: ERA, Addis Ababa, 1990
* - Average daily traffic.
C. Vehicle and Axle Load Regulations
2.06          The RTA is responsible for enforcing axle load regulations as well as vehicle
dimensions and overall weight restrictions. Axle load weighing equipment has been in use at various
locations on the paved network, but due to inadequate legislation in the past, overloading did not
result in prosecution. New axle load legislation was introduced through the Council of Ministers
Regulation No. 11/1990, dated September 4, 1990. These regulation generally conforms to the PTA
(Preferential Trade Agreement) recommendations, and allows up to 10 tons loads on axles with twin
tires, and 8 tons on axles with single tires. It should be noted that implementation of the new
regulations will take time and that drastic reductions in the overloading problem cannot be expected in
the short term. Enforcement of these new regulations will become even more important as the
Government proceeds with deregulating the road transport sector. An implementation schedule for
the introduction of the new regulation has been agreed upon (Annex 11). Priority will be given to
stations along the Assab-Addis Ababa road where most of the overloading is taking place. Iuring
negotiations it was agreed that starting January 1. 1994. Government will submit to IDA for review,
annual prozress reports on the implementation of the new axle load legislation (para. 5.02).
2.07          Table 2.3 shows the axle load distribution at the Assab weighing station where 61
percent of axle loads are more than 10 tons and 30 percent are more than 12 tons. This demonstrates



- 16 -
clearly the need for stronger measures by Government in curbing the overloading that is currently
taking place. The proposed pavement management system (PMS) - consultancy will include
assistance to Government in its efforts to implement the new axle load legislation.
Table 2.3: RRP-MILLE ASSAB ROAD AXLE LOAD DISTRIBUTION
RRP MILLE-ASSAB ROAD
AXLE LOAD DISTRIBUTION
% OF ALL AXLES
10----                  -                          -         -
Lgo Ii  it
0--I
3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17
AXLE LOAD IN TONS
61% OF AXLES OVER 10 TONS



- 17 -
D. Road Safet
2.08          The RTA is responsible for road transport services regulations and road safety. Road
accidents are recorded and analyzed by RTA and the police. The fatality rate per 10,000 inhabitants
is only 0.3 or 1/7th of the rate in the United States, whereas Ethiopia has one of the highest fatality
rates in relation to its vehicles population, about 60 times higher than the US and more than twice the
average rate in Africa. This indicates that the condition of the roads and the vehicles using the roads,
as well as the general driver behavior, is such that should a larger proportion of the population come
in contact with the modem transport system, road safety could become a much larger problem than is
recognized today. The Bank is supporting road safety measures through the on-going Second Road
Sector Project. The rehabilitation of the Mille-Assab road will, through geometric improvements
contribute significantly to improve the road safety situation. Additional initiatives such as general
education of the public, better vehicle inspection systems and driver training schemes, will also be
needed as the traffic develops and may be considered under a follow-up project. Accident statistics
are shown in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4: ROAD ACCIDENTS
Totat of                                           Rate per 100 mitlion veh./bns
accidents       Numter of        Number of
Year       involvins                                         lnlor             Persons       persons
iniury to       Iniured K_iled                     Accidents        Injured       Kil
persons
1984      2595             1796              799             3.6               2.5           1.1
i985      5334             4119              1215             2.5              1.9           0.6
1986      5643             4385              1258             2.4              1.8           0.5
1987      5996             4795              1201             2.7             2.1            0.5
1988      3985             3075              910              1.7              1.3           0.4
1989      4045             2993              1052             0.7              0.2           0.4
1990      4578             3909              1169             -                -
SOURCE: RTA, Addis Ababa, 1990/1991
E. Road Administration
2.09          The highway administration in Ethiopia was organized with assistance from the United
States Federal Highway Administration in the early 1950s. The organization was gradually built up
to a standard which compared favorably with sister organizations, both in Africa and elsewhere.
With minor changes, this organization, under the Ministry of Transport and Communications,
continued to function until 1980 when the Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority (ETCA) was
established under the Ministry of Construction. At that time, the legal framework for the highway
administration in Ethiopia was changed by a Government proclamation that declared the Ministry of
Transport and Communication (MOTAC) as the body responsible for the highway network. The
same proclamation stated that MOTAC was responsible for road planning and for 'causing the road
network to be constructed and maintained". Consequentdy, ETCA in theory, was reduced to a
construction enterprise only. ETCA, however, maintained its position as the de facto highway
authority for the country, despite the change in the legal framework.
2.10          In 1987, Government decided to divide ETCA's responsibilities between the newly
established Building and Transport Construction Design Authority (BATCODA) and ETCA. Design
and construction supervision of new roads were transferred to BATCODA, which also became
responsible for developing specifications and design standards. BATCODA was divided into two
departmnents: the Transport Construction Design Enterprise (TCDE) dealing with roads, ports, airports



- 18 -
and railways, and the Building Construction Design Enterprise (BCDE) dealing with buildings. The
reorganization resulted in unclear definitions of duties and legal responsibilities, especially in the road
sector. Urgently needed maintenance work on bridges was neglected since no single institution was
fully in charge of design and execution of the work. Since 1987, Government and IDA have
continued discussions about the legal framework for the highway administration. In November 1990,
Govermnent issued a new proclamation establishing a unified highway authority under the Ministry of
Public Works & Urban Development (MOPW&UD). The new organization, the Ethiopian Road
Authority (ERA), has now taken over the role of ETCA, and is responsible for all planning, design,
construction administration and maintenance of roads, including rural roads.
This responsibility has been recognized by ERA in principle, but the actual transfer of TCDE
to ERA has not yet taken place. At negotiations. it was agreed that the design department in ERA
will be re-established, by March 31. 1993 at the latest. either as a new departmnent or as a transfer of
TCDE (Para 5.02).
2.11         To date, there has been little coordination of Government's efforts to develop and
maintain the rural roads network. Construction has taken place under a number of different umbrella
agencies, the Ministry of Construction through ERA, the Rural Infrastructure Main Department of the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development and the Relief and
Rehabilitation Commission. There is no one agency to determine which roads are built, where, in
what order of priority, and to what standard. Nor is there a consensus on how much of the total
expenditure on roads should be spent for maintenance and how much for expansion of the network.
Moreover, since design standards and construction methods have varied, many roads have never been
officially handed over to ERA for maintenance or included in the classified network. Even when
ERA's standards have been met, since recurrent sources of financing for maintenance were not
identified or developed by those doing the construction, ERA has not been in a position to accept
responsibility for these roads. When there has been no handover, or the road has been built to an
"unacceptable" standard, the responsibility for maintenance is unclear; as a result, many rural roads
have become impassable. A Bank mission visited Ethiopia in May 1992 to assist Government in
developing policies for the rural roads sector and a comprehensive strategy is now being prepared.
2.12         The organizational structure for ERA is shown in Annex 8. Under the General
Manager, there are a number of technical and administrative divisions. The Chief Engineer is
responsible for both the Rural Roads Division and the Operations Division. The Rural Roads
Division uses both machine intensive and labour intensive techniques for construction and
maintenance of the rural roads. The Operations Manager is responsible for maintenance and
construction of main roads mainly through force account and for contract administration.
2.13         The Road Construction Section under the Operations Manager undertakes construction
by force account. The quality of work is generally good, but the force account operations are
vulnerable to shortages of spare parts and construction materials. At present there are 10 brigades
comprising of five gravel brigades, four asphalt brigades and one bridge brigade. Each brigade is
headed by a project manager, and is a self contained construction unit consisting of engineers,
technicians, operators, and clerks, skilled and unskilled laborers, equipment, workshop/stores,
laboratory and office facilities necessary to function efficiently in the field. The Road Maintenance
Department supervises all maintenance operations implemented by the eight districts, headed by the
District Managers. The RRD is responsible for construction and maintenance of low cost, low
standard, unclassified roads. The Rural Road Department should be the key institution for promoting
the rural roads sub-sector.
_~~~~~~~~~ -   - - - - - - -_-



- 19 -
F. Planning and Financing
2.14         The Planning and Programming Division (PPD) in ERA is responsible for road
planning. PPD is staffed by professional staff with adequate experience, training and skills. The
PPD is also responsible for the preparation of budgets and road sector programs. When the programs
are finalized, the proposals and budgets are reviewed by the Board of ERA and after approval,
submitted by the Ministry of Public Works & Urban Development (MOPW&UD) to the Government
for its approval.
2.15         Expenditures on road maintenance are financed from the recurrent budget. Capital
expenditures for road construction are financed mainly from external sources (Annex 4 and 5). In the
1988/89 fiscal year, an increase in the budget for maintenance brought the allocation up to a level
which would enable the Government to keep its total road network in a reasonable condition. This
was maintained in 1989/90 but declined somewhat in 1990/91. The lack of foreign exchange to
purchase new equipment and spare parts for the aging equipment fleet, represents a more serious
problem. Other donors (AfDB, Japan, EEC and Finland) are assisting Government with equipment
and spares, IDA funded some equipment under the Second Road Sector Project and additional
equipment will be included in the ERRP.
2.16         The revenue generated from road user charges (Annex 6) increased from Birr 85.3
million in 1982/83 to Birr 230.3 million in 1990/91 with an average annual growth rate of 6.6
percent. The annual amount of total revenues from road user charges is sufficient to cover funding of
road maintenance. If, however, road use revenue is adjusted for the average level of import duty,
attributable to general revenue generation, it is not clear whether specific road use charge revenue is
sufficient to meet the total needs of the roads sector. The share of taxes on petroleum was 50 percent
of total road user revenues. In the same year, i.e. 1990/91 total Government expenditures on roads
were about Birr 77.1 million-Birr 48.0 million for road maintenance and Birr 42.5 million for road
construction (Annexes 4 and 5); the share of rural road construction was about 32 percent of all
investments in roads. While the revenues generated are sufficient, it is important, that an appropriate
allocation of funds for road maintenance is made. It was agreed at negotiations that starting with
FY93 ERA will submit yearly to IDA for review and comment its draft annual road maintenance
program and budget (para. 5,02).
G. Road Engineering and Construction Supervision
2.17         Since the reorganization of the roads administration, ERA has been responsible for all
detailed engineering and contract administration for new road construction. ERA has its own
Contracts Administration Department. Detailed engineering is still performed by TCDE despite the
transfer of responsibility for design and supervision work back to ERA (Para 2.10). The re-
establishment of ERA's own design capacity is a condition of the proposed credit (Para 2.10).
2.18          Although ERA has qualified technical staff, it has little experience in dealing with
contracts awarded under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). For that reason, that the design of
the main civil works component of the Project has been reviewed by experienced international
consultants, and consultants will be used also for the construction supervision. Actual contract
administration will be carried out by ERA itself.



- 20 -
H. Road Co
2.19         Prior to the 1974 change of government, most major road construction was carried
out by international contractors. The domestic contractors were at that time also expanding their
participation. Since 1974, very little interest has been shown by international contractors in road
works in Ethiopia. Presently, most of the road construction activities in the country are undertaken
by MOPW&UD own forces. Some of the old private contractors have been taken over by
Government and transformed into public enterprises, and Government has assisted in strengthening
their capacity through the transfer of equipment to enable them to carry out major road construction
contracts. These are Blue Nile Construction Enterprise (BNCE), Berta Construction Enterprise and
Batu Construction Enterprise. BNCE is presently in the process of finalizing the construction of a
250 km long feeder road between Nekempte and Bure on a contract which was awarded through
international competitive bidding in 1985 (Second Road Sector Project, Cr. 1404-ET).
2.20         The TGE has as one of its stated objectives to encourage private participation in the
construction industry. Bank's experience with BNCE on the Nekempte - Bure project indicate that
the Enterprise is technically well qualified to take on large and complex contracts. However, the
financial and managerial autonomy required by Bank guidelines for qualification may be lacking at
present.
1. Road Mintennce
2.21         The day-to-day road maintenance operation for all classified roads is handled by ERA
through the Road Maintenance Department. Most of the road network suffers from neglect in routine
and periodic maintenance (about 80 percent of the paved roads are characterized as poor). This is
particularly noticeable on the paved roads that are subjected to high traffic volume and heavy loading.
Potholes occur frequently and are left unattended for long periods of time, resealing work is delayed
and shoulders and side-drains are not maintained. In addition, the roads, especially in the northern
districts, were badly damaged during the civil war that ended in 1991. In total, a backlog of about
7500 km of periodic maintenance work (resealing and regraveling) has accumulated. The ERRP will
address this issue but will only cover 20% of roads in need of periodic maintenance work.
2.22         Under the First Road Sector Project (Cr. 708-ET of 1977), financed by IDA, ERA
introduced a road maintenance management system to enable it to plan and schedule its maintenance
operation better. Lack of equipment, management skills and the effects of the civil war in the
country, have resulted in a situation where the maintenance management system, has not operated as
expected. ERA should update and modify the system in view of recent developments in computer and
systems technology, such as geographic information systems. Furthermore, the management system
must be improved to give sufficient early warning through a monitoring and evaluation system. The
introduction of a pavement management system (PMS) that will alert ERA to take the necessary
countermeasures in time and thereby reduce the risk of premature road failures, is part of the
proposed Project.



-21 -
2.23          The major constraints encountered in carrying out both routine and periodic
maintenance on the road network are three-fold: (i) shortage of foreign exchange effecting
replacement of equipment as well as supply of spare parts and materials; (ii) institutional
shortcomings; and (iii) the fact that ERA is responsible for airports as well as roads. This is reflected
in the aging and inadequate fleet of road maintenance equipment, the lack of spare parts including
tires and the shortage of road maintenance materials including bitumen, cement and steel.
2.24         The proposed pavement management system (PMS) will enable the Government to
monitor the entire paved road network (and if considered necessary, portions of the non-paved roads
as well) on a continuous basis so that deterioration of the scale that is now taking place on portions of
the Addis Ababa-Assab road would not be allowed to occur in the future, assuming that the physical
capacity is re-established. ERA will be able to alert itself in time and properly program its road
maintenance operations. The PMS will supplement other management systems already in place and
under preparation (supplies, construction, equipment, etc.)
2.25         The Supply and Equipment Department (SED) provides centralized support to ERA's
operational divisions. Due to budgetary constraints and lack of foreign exchange to purchase spare
parts, the SED has been unable to meet the demands from the various districts. The result is a low
rate of availability of equipment (40 percent). The AfDB Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Project, signed in 1989, includes new equipment and spares for rehabilitation of old equipment. The
on-going Finnish aid program is assisting road maintenance operations with new equipment and
technical assistance in the Alemgena District. Prior to negotiations ERA submitted to IDA for review
a detailed list of specialized eguipment needed for maintenance units on the Addis Ababa - Assab
road(nra. 5.   After analyzing the results of the ERRP, IDA's next highway sector operation
should review the overall equipment situation and assess the need for renewals, rehabilitation and
scrapping.
J. Trainine
2.26         ERA's personnel at various levels have participated in on-the-job training as well as
formal training through its training center at Alemgena and through both short and long term training
overseas. Alemgena Training Center began its operation in 1956. Since then, the Center has
provided training courses and trade tests for about 40,000 people. The training staff at Alemgena
Training Center include 28 instructors.
2.27          Under the Second Road Sector Project (Cr. 1404-EI) consultants were employed to
revise, update and prepare new training courses, and train the trainers. Workshop and engineering
equipment, tools and instruments were also provided through the Credit. The training provided at
Alemgena is now satisfactory. An acceptable detailed training programn for ERA was-submittedtQ
IDA at negotiations (Annex 15).
2.28          In addition to the classroom instruction at Alemgena, the center operates a training
production unit (TPU) for highway maintenance and construction. The training facility at Ginchi is
responsible for training rural roads construction and maintenance personnel, especially in labour based
methods. Generally the training of staff at foreman and technician level is adequate both in quantity
and quality. Additional training to professional staff for special purposes, such as the proposed PMS,
etc., is provided for in the Project.



- 22 -
K. Accounting and Auditing
2.29         The financial and accounting responsibilities in ERA are entrusted to the Fiscal
Services Division. The Division has four branches: General Accounting, Cost Accounting, Property
Records, and Pre-Audit and Data Control. There are about 55 employees working in the Division;
however, only seven have university level degrees in accounting. The Division functions adequately,
but should make an effort to attract more university graduates in accounting and also by providing
further training in accounting and finance to existing staff. The University of Addis Ababa offers
suitable training opportunity, and ERA has included such training in the proposed training program.
(Annex 15).
2.30         Accounting records are maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, legal requirements and Government guidelines. These are detailed in ERA's Fiscal
Information System Accounting Manual which was prepared by a consultant (under the Second Road
Sector Project) in cooperation with the Fiscal Services Division and has been in effect since June
1984. Accounts are closed yearly and three financial statements, namely, a balance sheet, a source
and application of funds and a revenue statement are prepared and submitted to the Ethiopian Audit
Services Corporation for auditing. Despite difficulties with computer hardware, ERA has been able
to eliminate the backlog of Project audit reports that had been built up over the last three to five
years. To improve ERA's accounting capacity, the present computer system in ERA is being
replaced with a higher capacity and recent generation computer with a number of terminals installed
in the Fiscal Services Division for direct access by accountants of the Division. The installation of
the new computer system will require the services of a consultant for a short time to train the
Division's employees in the use of the system. The cost of this service is included in the on-going
Second Road Sector Project (Cr. 1404-EI).



- 23 -
III. PROJrECT CONCEPT AND COMPOSMON
A. Project Origin and Prenaration
3.01         The original route from the port of Assab to Addis Ababa went via Combolcha in the
Welo Region. Under the Fourth Road Project, 1976, the link between Mille and Awash was
constructed (280 kIm), and the Nazareth to Awash section (125 kIm), was paved (see Table 3.1 and the
attached map). The upgrading of the section between MUle and Assab was to be included in the on-
going Second Road Sector Project (Cr. 1404-ET). In 1985, however, the Government experienced a
severe shortage of counterpart funds and requested IDA to increase the disbursement percentage on
other components in the Project, (mainly the Nekempte-Bure Road), and consequently the upgrading
of the Mille-Assab section-except for the Mille-Logia segment-had to be deleted. Deterioration of
the road, however, has continued, and Government has obtained a loan/credit from the African
Development Bank to rehabilitate about 134 km between Semera and Elidar (total cost US$42
million). Work on this section is now beginning. Government is also concerned about other sections
of the road between Addis Ababa and MUle and is carrying out detailed pavement surveys, especially
between Nazreth and Awash and between Awash and Mille.
3.02         The TCDE finalized the design for the rehabilitation of the Mille-Assab section in
1989 and prepared contract documents and cost estimates have been prepared. Since TCDE lacked
experience in preparing complete bidding documents suitable for projects to be carried out through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines, Government engaged a
consultant to review the design and assist in the preparation of bidding documents and to update costs.
This was completed in April 1992.
B. Poect Objectives
3.03         The primary purpose of the proposed Project is to finance urgently needed repairs and
upgrading on a section of Ethiopia's main transport artery, so that it remains open to traffic and
functional, and to extend the service life of the road for a period of 15 years. In addition, the Project
seeks to assist Government in putting into place institutional measures aiming at preventing such
emergencies from arising in the future through the introduction of better road monitoring and
management tools and better axle load control.
3.04         The specific objectives of the proposed Project are:
(i)    To improve the bearing capacity, geometry, safety and riding quality on sections
between Mille and Assab on the Addis Ababa-Assab road;
(ii)   To improve Government maintenance capacity on the road between Addis Ababa and
Mille, not included for rehabilitation in the Project, and to finance the review of the
detailed engineering for the eventual full rehabilitation of this section at a later date;



- 24 -
(iii)   To institute a pavement management system to enable ERA to better assess potential
problems and plan future road maintenance and reconstruction needs in a timely
fashion;
C. Pro3ed Description
3.05                The Project for which an IDA credit of SDR 66.4 million (US$ 96.0 million)
is proposed, includes:
(i)   road rehabilitation of sections of the road between Mille and the Port of
Assab, including construction supervision;
(ii)   design and implementation of a pavement management system including
provision of technical assistance, equipment and other consultancy services;
(iii)  consulting services for sector related studies;
(iv)   training and technical assistance; and
(vi)  road maintenance equipment.
The Project components are discussed in more detail below.
Road Rehabilitation
3.06         Mille-Assab Road Rehabilitation. The main component of the proposed Project will
be the rehabilitation of sections of the Mille to Assab road, part of the Addis Ababa-Assab road (see
Table 3.1). The Bure-Assab section lies within Eritrea. The Transitional Government of Ethiopia
and the Provisional Government of Eritrea have provided the Bank with assurance that there will be
unhindered access to the construction sites. The African Development Bank has agreed to finance the
rehabilitation of 134 km between Semera and Elidar section, and IDA is financing rehabilitation of 25
km between Mille and Logia under the on-going Second Road Sector Project (Cr. 1404-ET). This
section is scheduled for completion by mid-1993. Both sections will be constructed through force
account by ERA. Under the Project, the balance of the Mille-Assab road will be rehabilitated,
totalling 196 km. Government has also carried out deflection measurements to identify the residual
life of the Addis Ababa - Mille road to define where and what measures are required to extend the
useful life of the road. The Project includes assistance to ERA to increase its maintenance capacity
on this road to enable Government to keep the road in a reasonable condition until funds can be
mobilized for rehabilitation.
3.07         Overall, the Project is designed to rehabilitate all damaged sections and to widen
substandard sections so that the residual life of the entire road becomes 15 years as measured in
equivalent standard axles (ESA 80). The pavement width is presently 6 to 6.5 m and the shoulders
are 0.5 m, either side. The surface itself shows various types of surface failure: cracking,
depressions, potholes, uneven patching and other types of repair works carried out over the years.
Rutting is not pronounced, indicating that the overall bearing capacity of the subbase and subgrade is
generally sufficient. The visual failures can broadly be associated with base and surface failures
caused by overloading. The general increase in tire pressure on the heavy goods vehicles using the



-25 -
road has most likely contributed to the failure of the basecourse. Tire pressures that used to be 70 to
80 KN/cml are now reaching up to 120 KN/cm2. This makes a significant difference in imposed
stresses, espocially in the upper part of the pavement structure.
Tabhle 3.1: ETHIOPIA ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT DATA SUMMARY
COMBOLCHA                                            N               ASS
MILLE 
Logia         D                                  ;ure
AWASH                                      ' DJIBOUTI
MILLE-        LOGIA-         SEMERA-    ELIDAR-             BURE -
LOGIA    SEMERA    ELIDAR    BURE                           ASSAB
LENGTH KM         25            41             134            80              75
COST           8.0           24.9           41 .4          42.6            37.4
U S   $   M ILL   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _     _ _  _  _ _   _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _
DONOR           IDA           IDA            AfDB           IDA             IDA
PROJECT         RS II          RRP                           RRP             RRP
COMMENTS         Force         ICB             Force           CB             ICB
COMMENTS    Account          OBAccountlB                                    B



- 26 -
3.08         To improve the geometric standard and rectify the pavement failures, the following
works are proposed: (a) reconstruction of sections where the pavement structure is especially weak;
(b) widening of the carriageway, base and sub-base from the present 6 or 6.5 m. to 7 m. and
providing 1.5 m. shoulders either side; (c) strengthening the existing pavement by adding a granular
basecourse layer; (d) relocating the road where the horizontal alignment is substandard (this would
apply to about 6.5 km in total); (e) constructing a new wearing course of 40 to 50 mm asphaltic
concrete on the entire length of road, 7 m. wide; (f) improving drainage, both longitudinal and across
the road, including culverts and structures; and (g) constructing parking/service lanes through built-up
areas.
3.09         A design life of ten years was originally proposed by ERA apparently to reduce the
cost of rehabilitation. A fifteen years design life involves a stronger and more costly pavement
construction (to cater for 15 mill. ESA as opposed to 9 mill ESA for ten years). The present pattern
of overloading has been taken into account in the pavement design. From the statistical material it
appears that the risk of extreme axle loads in excess of 20 ton that might cause the road to fail is
minimal. The pattern of overloading is not likely to change adversely in the future. In fact it should
be expected that improved axle weight enforcement in the future would improve the situation. It can
be concluded that the risk represented by overloaded vehicles, is taken care of in the pavement
design.
3.10         The choice of design life should also take account of the reliability of future
maintenance. The risk that fully adequate routine and periodic maintenance will not be provided
favors a longer design life. Factors such as traffic level, percentage of heavy traffic, and the discount
rate used will determine the optimum design life. Given the data from the Mille - Assab road, with
ADT of about 850 projected for the year 2000, about 90 percent heavy vehicles and at a discount rate
of 12 percent, a 15 years design life would be economically justified.
Design and Implementation of a Pavement Management System
3.11         To enable ERA to monitor its paved road system, so that road deterioration of the
scale taking place today on the Project road between Addis Ababa-Assab is not allowed to continue
without adequate provision for repair or reconstruction and to assist the Government in better
programming its road maintenance operations, the Project will finance the establishment of a
pavement management system (PMS) for the whole bitumenized network in Ethiopia (para. 3.13).
The system will be designed and implemented with technical assistance to the extent required, in
accordance with the outlined terms of reference contained in Annex 9. Such technical assistance
might be provided through a twinning arrangement with a road organization famniliar with such
techniques, through a reputable consulting firm or a combination of both. The Project component
will include the cost of training staff to operate the pavement management system, including computer
training.
3.12         The Project will also provide equipment sufficient to equip the pavement management
unit that will be established. Such equipment will consist of vehicles, Benkelman beam, Dynamic
cone penetrometer (DCP), computer equipment, etc. During negotiations it was agreed that ERA will
establish by June 30. 1994 and thereafter maintain a Pavement Management System to program the
maintenance of the paved road network (para. 5.02).



- 27 -
Technical Assistance and Training
3.13         The domestic construction industry is weak and for large civil works contracts, there
is virtually no capacity in the country apart from a few parastatals. The Project will cover the cost of
sector related studies and training.
3.14         The Project also includes provision for technical assistance to GOE for specialized
support during the implementation of the Axle Load Control system. Such assistance could take the
form of consultancy services, through twinning with sister institutions familiar with the techniques
required or through an overseas training program. Details will be agreed upon between GOE and
IDA during the implementation of the enforcement of the new regulations as set out in Annex 11.
Equipment
3.15         Under the Project, ERA would procure specialized road maintenance equipment
suitable for patching and resealing work along the whole stretch of road from Addis Ababa to Mille
(Annex 14) and improvement of the Awash section maintenance depot. In addition, the Project will
finance equipment needed for the implementation of the PMS and the Axle Load Control System
following the consultants recommendations and MOTAC's review of the weigh-bridge stations and
their need for replacements and spares.
Other Consultine Services
3.16         It is anticipated that during Project execution, preparation work for the next road
sector project will start, and the Project provides for funds to cover consultancy services to review
Government designs for components to be included in such a new sector project. Consultants will
also be engaged to prepare a new Design Manual and a new Standard Specifications for roads as well
as to assist in other sector related studies.
D. Cost Estimates
3.17         The total Project cost, including physical and price contingencies, but net of taxes and
duties, is estimated at USS109.3 million with a foreign exchange component of USS86.8 million as
shown in Table 3.2.
3.18         The estimates are based on 1991 prices. For the main civil works component, the
cost estimates are based upon ERA's estimate as reviewed and agreed upon with consultants in April
1992. As there have been no ICB contracts awarded in Ethiopia on roads for many years, unit rates
from similar work in neighbouring countries have been analyzed and used to assist in establishing
rates in the estimates. Estimates for equipment and technical assistance are based on price experience
in Ethiopia. For consultancies, the estimates include cost of accommodation, transport and field
allowances for local staff. Cost estimates for the technical assistance components are based on recent
ERA man-month rates. The estimates include cost of accommodation, transport and allowances for
local staff. To determine the price contingency allowance for foreign costs estimated in US Dollars,
an expected price increase of 2.8 percent for 1992, 3.9 percent for 1993, 3.9 for 1994, and 3.8
percent for 1995 to 1998 has been used. These rate have also been used for local costs on the
assumption that the difference between domestic and international price inflation wDI be offset by
equivalent adjustments in the foreign exchange rate. Physical contingencies of 15 percent have been
added to the base cost. Price and physical contingencies total US$28.7 million or 26 percent of total
Project cost.



- 28 -
Table 3.2: Project Cost Estimates
-   US S MUIioiZ   - 
PFoin           IDA
Description                Local    Foeip      Toal    as S of
Total      *       USSM
1. CIVIL WORKS
Mille-Assab
Logia - Semer (41 kin)               3.09     12.37     15.46       80        a5      13.14
Elidar - Bure (S0 kin)               5.15     20.17     25.39       so        S5      22.01
Bure - Assab (75 kln)                4.73     1.94      23.67       so        S5      20.12
Awash Section Depot:                    0.07     0.07      0.14        50        S5       0.12
Subtotal CivU Works                 13.01     52.0      6S.1?                         53.39
11. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/TRAINING
Supervision of 1                     0.59      3.32      3.90       85       100       3.90
PMS Consultancy                      0.14      0.82      0.97       35       100       0.97
Design review, Addis-MiLie           0.06      0.45      0.53       a5       100       0.53
Training/Twinning                    0.06      0.45      0.53       a5       100       0.53
Design review, HSIII Projects        0.11      0.62      0.72       25       100       0.72
Design Manual/Standard Specs.        0.11      0.60      0.70       a5       100       0.70
Sector Related Studies               0.04      0.21      0.24       I5       100       0.24
Subtotal T/A & Training              1.14      6.46                     7. 60
Ill. EQUIPMENT
Mtc Equipment                        0.00      7.32      7.32      100       100       7.32
PMS-Equipment                        0.00      0.24      0.24      100       100       0.24
Weighbridge Equipment                0.00      0.24      0.24      100       100       0.24
Subtotal Equipment                   0."       7.06      7*                            7.80
BASE COST 1991                      14.2      6.35    U1SJ                    88      70.79
IV. CONTINGENCIES
Price                                   6.15     10.45     16.60                          14.59
Physical 15%                            2.13      9.95     12.09                          10.62
Subtotal                             3.28     20.40     28.69                         25.21
GRAND TOTAL (Net of Taxes and Duties)      22.90    3.75    10626          79        88      96.00
Taxes and Duties                        12.42     0.00     12.42
GRAND TOTAL Inl. Taxes and Duties          34.92     56.75    121.66                         96.00
E. F_
3.19           IDA's contribudon would be USS96.0 million or 88 percent of the total project cost
net of taxes. The Govermment of Ethiopia will finance pant of the local costs, and the total value of
the Government contribution is estimated at USS13.3 million, or 12 perct, not including taxes and
duties, which are estimated at US$12.4 million equivalont. Tho details of the financing plan are
shown in Table 3.3.



-29 -
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ MUllion)
I     ~~Funding
Description               Total Cost
_________________________            _   mIncl. Cont.  MIA          GOE
I.  CIVIL WORKS
Mille - Assab:
Logia - Semera (41 kim)               20.96        17.82        3.14
Elidar - Bure (80 kIm)                35.11        29.85        5.27
Bure - Assab (75 kIm)                 32.10        27.29        4.82
Awash Section Depot:                    0.20         0.17        0.03
Subtotal Civil Works                  8837         75.12       13.26
L. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/TRAINING
Supervision of I                       5.29         5.29        0.00
PMS Consultancy                        1.31         1.31        0.00
Design review, Addis-MUle              0.72         0.72        0.00
Training/Twinning                      0.72         0.72        0.00
Design review, HSI-project             0.98         0.98        0.00
Design Maunal/Standard Specs.          0.95         0.95        0.00
Sector Related Studies                 0.33         0.33        0.00
Subtotal T/A & Training               10.30        10.33        0.00
HI. EQUIPMENT
Mtc. Equipment                         9.92        9.92         0.00
PMS-Equipment                          0.33         0.33        0.00
Weighbridge Equipment                  0.33         0.33        0.00
Subtotal Equipment                    10.58        10.58        0.00
GRAND TOTAL INCL. CONTINGENCIES             109.26      96.00       13.26
et of  axes and Duties



- 30 -
F. ImRlementatlon
3.20         The General Manager of ERA under MOPW&UD will be responsible for executing
the Project. Consultants will be used: (i) to review ERA's design; (ii) to assist in the preparation
and carry out supervision of the civil works components; (iii) to assist ERA in the design and
implementation of a pavement management system; (iv) to assist ERA in preparing new project
components for a possible Third Road Sector Project; (v) and to assist MOPW&UD to carry out
sector related studies. The time schedule for implementation of the Project is based on a five year
period starting actual construction in March 1993 (Annex 10). This time schedule is considered
realistic, since the Project has been given high priority by Government and since the bulk of the
Project consists of works to be carried out by international firms and supervised by international
consultants. To better monitor progress on institutional reform there will be a comprehensive mid-
term review of the Project. including a review of road maintenance operations. the establishment of
the PMS and compliance with axle load controls. It will also cover overall proiect implementation
and. compliance with legal covenants. The mid-term review would take place by mid-CY1995. The
Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.
G. Procurement
3.21         Procurement arrangements for the Project are as shown in Table 3.4. The civil works
contracts for the Mille-Assab road will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) and limited to prequalified contracting firms according to Bank Guidelines. Due to the small
amount involved (US$120,000) and because it is only improvement to existing structure,
improvements to Awash Section Depot will be carried out through force account (ERA or Ethiopian
Building Construction Authority (EBCA)). Procurement of consultancy services will be as per Bank
Guidelines. Road maintenance equipment, vehicles, PMS and weighbridge equipment and spares will
be procured through ICB. All contracts greater than US$100,000 equivalent (which constitutes over
95 percent of all procurement), will be subject to prior review by IDA before final award of such
contracts.



-31 -
Tabk 3.4 PROECUJRE ARRANGEMENIS
(US $Million)
PROCUREMENT METHOD
Decriptin                             ICB                    OTHER
TOTAL
TOTAL        IDA        TOTAL         IDA       VALUE         IDA
1.  CIVIL WORKS
Mill - A_b:
Lo&  - Semm (41 kn)                           20.96       17.32                               20.96       17.82
EWdar - Bure (0 km)                           35.11       29.85                               35.11       29.85
Bure - Asb (75 km)                            32.10       27.29                               32.10       27.29
Awash Section Depot:                                                   0.20'        0.17        0.20       0.17
Subota CIi Werks                              33.18       74.95        0.20        0.17       88.37       75.12
U. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEMlRANING
Supervision of                                                         3 5.29      5.29        5.29        5.29
PMS Cosultancy                                                         1.31        1.31        1.31        1.31
Design review, Addis-Mille                                             0.72        0.72        0.72        0.72
Training/Twinning                                                      0.72        0.72        0.72        0.72
Design rview, HSM-projects                                             0.98        0.98        0.98        0.98
Design Manual/Stadard Specs.                                           0.95        0.95        0.95        0.95
Sector Related Studies                                                 0.33        0.33        0.33        0.33
Subtotal T/A & Tr                                                     10.30       10.30       10.30       10.30
m. EQUIPENT
Mtc. Equipmet                                  9.92        9.92                                9.92        9.92
PMS-Equipmen                                   0.33        0.33                                0.33        0.33
We4hbridp Equipmsut                            0.33        0.33                                0.33        0.33
Subtotal Equ"t                                10.53       105os                               10.58       10.58
GRAND TOTAL INCL. CONTINGENCIES                   96.76       85.33        10.50       10.47      109.26      96.00
/ force account



- 32 -
H. Di_
3.22            Overall, 88 percent of total cost will be covered by the proposed Credit. For
individual components, the Credit will be disbursed as follows:
Table 3.5: DISBURSEMENT
COMPONENT                                               DISBURSEMENT IN X FOR
Local Coati/             Foreign Cost!/
(a) Civil Works                                               25                       100
(b) Tmchn1cal asmfstwice and Training
SuPervision of civit works                           100                        100
FM con ultancy                                       100                        100
Design Review wnd Design ganual                      100                        100
Training                                             100                        100
Sector Related Studies                               100                        100
(c) Equipmnt
Road mintenrnce Equipment and Spares                 100                       100
PNS Equln int                                        100                        100
we f Sgh-brl    *quipeent                            100                        100
N/ Nt of taxes nd duties.
3.23           The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998, and the Credit Closing
Date will be September 30, 1998. An estimated schedule of disbursement of funds is set out in Table
3.5. All disbursements will be fully documented to the satisfaction of the Association. Payment
against contracts for equipment and technical assistance less than US$50,000 will be disbursed under
statement of expenditure (SOE). Documents verifying expenditures for the SOE are to be kept in a
central location for review by IDA supervision missions. During negotiations it was agreed that a
specW  account to facilitate Project payments for all expenditures in the amount of US$1,000,000 be
opened in the National Bank of Ethiopia in the name of ERA (para. 5.02).



-33 -
Table 3.: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
lank FY *nd                                        Slibured                             CwutuatIv
Quarter Ending                                     In Curtcr                             Axouit
...... .......... ... . . . .. . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . .. .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1993
June 30, 1993                                      2.0                               2.0
1994
S.pte.  r 30. 1993                               9.0                                11.0
DceS=er 31  1993                                  2.0                                13.0
March 31, 1494                                    3.0                                16.0
Jure 30, 1994                                    3.0                                19.0
1995
S.pteee r30, 1994                                4.0                                23.0
Dceccb r 31  1994                                 4.0                               27.0
March 31, 1 9                                     5.0                               32.0
Jure 30, 1995                                    6.0                                38.0
1996
S.pt.a~.r 30. 199                                6.0                                 4.0
Dceciber 31  1995                                 7.0                               51.0
March 31, 14i                                     5.0                               59.0
June 30, 1996                                    9.0                                68.0
1997
Septe  r SO, 1996                                 7.0                               75.0
D*ce=r 31  1996                                   6.0                               81.0
March 31, 147                                     5.0                               86.0
Jurn 30, 1997                                    4.0                                90.0
1998
S=pt.  r 30, 1997                                 3.0                               93.0
Dec.b r 31. 199                                   2.0                               95.0
March 31, 1496                                    1.0                               96.0
June 30, 1996                                     0.0                               96.0



- 34 -
Table 3.7: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT CHART
ETHIOPIA RRP
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
100 -
80-             jj4
60     _       - 1-                                  te! 101-AW8;w
U* 40-                           --      S-
C20
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Fiscal Year and Quarter
SAR Estimate   Actual
CLOSING DATE: September 30, 1998



- 35 -
I. Re=orting and Audldngr
3.24         Project accounts will be maintained by ERA with separate accounts for ch
component. Auditing of ERA is the responsibility of the Ethiopian Audit Service Corporation
(EASC). For the Project the auditor will furnish the Association certified copies of the ProJect's
financial statements for each year and a report of such scope and in such detail as the Asoc on
shall have requested.
3.25         The audit provided by the auditor would make specific referenco to the spoecl
accounts operation and to expenditures withdrawn under the SOE procedures and expres a separae
opinion on these matters. To avoid bottlenecks in auditing, the project accounts will, if ready, but
not audited by EASC within three months of being submitted, be audited by private uditors. Tne
accounts will be audited not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (starting with
FY93).
3.26         The executing agency, ERA, will be responsible for overall Project reportn as
follows:
(i)   Inception, progress and final reports on technical assistance by consultan for the
Pavement Management System, and any sector relatd studies agreod upon;
(ii)     Quarterly progress reports and completion report on all Project components by ERA;
(iii)     By January 1 of each year an audit report on the Project accounts for the previous
fiscal year by the EASC or an independent auditor; and
(iv)     Progress reports on compliance with agreed action plans regarding:
a) Axle load control system.
b) Pavement Management system.
c) Annual Road Maintenance Program.
d) Classification system.
3.27         During the negotiations Government agreed with theso reportig requirements (pam.
5.02), including a project completion report by ERA in a form satisfactory to the Association not later
than six months after the Project Closing Date (September 30, 1998).
J. in_l  1
3.28         The Project is expected to have both positive and negative impact on the environment.
Table 3.8 summarizes the impact from the main components. Overall, the environmental impact of
the civil works component will be very limited.



-36 -
Table 3.8:                               
ASPECIb                          POSITIVE                       NEGATIVE
1. DURING                    Employment opportunities           Detours will reduce
CONSTRUCTION /                                                operating speed.
Rescue vehicles available
Single lane traffic.
Enhanced maintenance
on critical sections.              Dust and noise from
construction activities.
Medical facilities available
Soil erosion.
2. LONG TERM
(i) Civil Works            Improved riding quality.           Higher speeds could result
in an increase in the
Improved road safety due           accident rates and the
to wider pavement, improved        severity of accidents.
geometry and better riding
surface.                           New quarries will be
opened. Visual intrusion.
Reduced risk of bridge
failures.
Possible to perform proper
maintenance.
(ii) PMS                   Early warning of pavement
failure will reduce risk
of having to repeat major
construction works.
More economical use of
scarce road building
materials.
1'    The contract document will limit the length of detours in operation at any one time and specify how
the clean-up of quarries shall be done to limit the visual impact and eliminate safety hazards.



- 37 -
IV. ECONOMI EVALATION
A. General
4.01          The proposed Project will make a major improvement to vehicle operations on the
critical route, Addis Ababa - Assab, by rehabilitating 196 kms of the road in the poorest condition.
The project will improve about 23 percent of the total route which is the main corridor to the port of
Assab and acts as the lifeline for the country and its population. During the period of droughts, the
road is particularly crucial for relief cargo.
4.02          The great majority of traffic on the project sections is long distance, heavy
commercial vehicles. In recent years, most of the traffic passing through Mile is travelling between
Addis Ababa and Assab. Vehicles serving Combolcha and Northern Ethiopia connect with the route
at Mille; in the past this traffic was a small proportion of the total flow but its importance will
increase with the end of the civil war and the opening of the Northern districts.
4.03          The Awash - Addis Ababa portion of the road traverses populated and economically
active areas in the country and is essential for local traffic. The economic rate of return for the
proposed road works (about 80 percent of the total Project base costs) is about 22 percent. The
benefits of the remaining Project components (PMS, technical assistance and training) are difficult to
quantify but are expected to be important; improving the life and physical condition of paved road
network and upgrading the quality of local level transport which is directly linked with agricultural
production.
B. TraMc on the Addis Ababa - Assab Road
4.04          The road is the most trafficked in the country, carrying annually about 2.5 - 3.0
million tons of cargo. Wheat, rice, petroleum products, fertilizers and construction materials are the
principal imports transported on the road while coffee, hides and livestock are the most prominent
exports. There is a major imbalance in cargo flows on the road with a 3:1, import:export ratio. This
imbalance results in low average vehicle load factors and high toanage costs. In addition to the long
distance traffic, there is also some local freight traffic and sizeable passenger traffic on sections of the
road nearer Addis Ababa.
4.05          Systematic traffic counts have been undertaken on the road by ETCAIERA. The
results of the 1989 census show that, as expected, the heaviest traffic is on the road section closest to
the capital, Addis - Nazareth (2,615 vpd); traffic on the remainder of the road is more uniform
ranging between 650 - 475 vpd. The proportion of trucks in the traffic flow is extremely high, 77
percent - 93 percent. The 1989 traffic flow on the Mille - Assab section is shown in Table 4.1,
together with base projected traffic for 1997 and 2002. In assessing future traffic growth and
projecting average daily traffic (ADT) for 1997 and 2002 (Table 4.1), a gradual modest increase of
traffic is assumed. Taking also into account past development of the road traffic, fuel consumption,
development of export/import trade and passenger transport, it is estimated that the underlying annual
traffic growth will be 3.0 percent for passenger traffic, and 5.0 percent per year for the freight
traffic.



- 38 -
4.06          To an extent, however, traffic flows recorded in 1989 may be an inadequate basis for
forecasting future traffic demand as the overall geopolitical situation has altered with the end of the
civil war. Ethiopia is now, de facto, a landlocked country (LLC) and like all LLC will not wish to
be dependent on a single transit route or transit country. Northern Ethiopia may again be served
through Massawa and even Port Sudan and much greater traffic may be routed through the port of
Djibouti, especially if a paved road is constructed between Dire Dawa and the border. Mombasa may
become an important entry point for goods destined for Southern Ethiopia and Berbera for Eastern
Ethiopia. All these developments would suggest the possible diversion of traffic away from Assab.
To take this possible diversion into account the flow of trucks has been reduced by 25 percent as the
base case. The sensitivity of the projects to different traffic assumptions has also been tested. With
regard to the CDE Railway it was assumed that CDE will continue to operate during the estimated
life of the Project. Even an eventual doubling of the traffic (from 300,000 tons at present to 600,000
tons) in the 1990's would not have any significant impact on the economic viability of the project.
Table 4.1: ROAD TRAFFIC FLOWS ON THE MILLE - ASSAB ROAD
(ADT)
... ........ .....................................................................................................
Actuat                            Pro iected
12ol                     17            Z22Z
ADT      Trucks         ADT      Trucks         ADT        Trucks
............................................................................................................
Mills - Assab          496        (435)            558      (491)       889        (799)
4.07          An analysis of the potential traffic capacity of the Mille - Assab section was
undertaken to estimate the residual geometric life of the present road. If the present traffic
composition does not change, the road has a capacity, translated into ADT, that varies between 2,900
and 3,700 vehicles per day. This capacity is sufficient to meet traffic demands to, at least, 2023.
Investment in additional traffic lanes is thus not necessary.
C. Economic Analysis
Civil Works
4.08          The economic analysis is based on late 1990 prices and an exchange rate of USS 1.0
= Birr 5.0. Construction for the three sections will be spread over four years (1993-1996). Given
the nature of the traffic using the road and its present all-weather standard the proposed improvements
are unlikely to generate significant additional traffic on the road. For the purpose of economic
analysis the road was divided into three sections: Logia-Semera (41 kim), Elidar-Burie (80 kln) and
Burie-Assab (75 kim).
4.09          The economic analysis compares 'with' and 'without' the Project cases. In the
"without' case, the road will continue to deteriorate and vehicle operating costs (VOC) will rise as the
road deteriorates. The rising VOC will, however, have a negligible effect on traffic flows: a very
low demand elasticity is implicity assumed which is reasonable given the nature of the traffic. In the
"with' case, the improvements to the road (reconstruction, resealing, pavement strengthening, some
widening, reconstruction of shoulders and improvement of roadside drains and structures) will
significantly reduce present VOC and will postpone the need for reconstruction during the estimated
15-year life of the proposed project.



- 39 -
4.10         The main benefits of the rehabilitation of the Mille - Assab section (196 kim) will be
VOC savings. Additional benefits will result from passenger time savings and possibly also from
improved road safety. These are difficult to quantify and were not included in the analysis. The
major direct beneficiaries of the project will be truck and bus owners/operators and passenger car
owners. It is expected, however, that with the growth of competition within the trucking sector, part
of these benefits will be passed on to bus passengers and the consumers/producers of the goods being
transported. The Government will also benefit from some reduction in road maintenance costs and by
avoiding the future costs of road reconstruction (the benefits of deferred reconstruction costs were not
included in the economic analysis).
4.11         VOCs have been calculated separately for each road section and for each year, taking
into account the changing roughness of the road surface (dependent on the structural strength of the
pavement and the effects of climate and traffic). VOCs were calculated from appropriate studies on
VOCs carried out by consultants (Annex 12). Four typical vehicle types were selected for the
analysis Oight vehicles, medium trucks, heavy truck trailers and buses).
4.12         The economic analysis was carried out in economic prices, net of taxes and duties.
The major assumptions and inputs in the fifteen-year costlbenefit analysis are as follows. The total
costs included in the economic evaluation comprise: (i) the cost of civil works; (ii) the cost of
supervision; (iii) 10 percent physical contingencies; (vi) cost of preparatory studies; and (v) costs of
road maintenance. The benefits considered in the economic analysis include savings in VOCs for the
normal traffic growing at 3-5 percent per year (para. 4.06).
4.13         The immediate need for the proposed improvements is illustrated by a First-Year
Return of 16.9 percent. The economic analysis, based upon the assumptions outlined previously,
shows that the overall ERR for the proposed civil works for the Mille - Assab Road is almost 24
percent; the ERRs per section range between 17.3 percent - 24.3 percent. The ERR would have been
even higher had the additional benefits (para. 4.10) been taken into account. In the sensitivity
analysis, which varied construction costs by 15 percent and benefits by 25 percent the Project remains
justified. (Annex 12).
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Road Section     KIM           E                      NPV(1296)
1. Logia-Semera      41         17.3%             Birr 25.52 million
2. Elidar-Burie      80         22.2%                 88.01 million
3. Burie-Assab       75         24.3%                 89.92 million
TOTAL            196         21.7%                203.45 million
Pavement Management System and Maintenance Eguipment
4.17         The introduction of a Pavement Management System and provision of road
maintenance equipment (about 8 percent of project costs) will allow the ERA to focus and implement
highly needed improvements in the maintenance of paved roads, particularly on the Addis-Awash and
Awash-Mille sections. Since these roads carry the highest traffic volumes in the country, the
proposed assistance to PMS will yield substantial benefits. Based on an indicative calculation of the



- 40 -
benefits of more efficient periodic maintenance on the two sections the investment is expected to yield
an ERR exceeding 35 percent.
Other Sector Related Studies
4.18          The private sector has not been involved in the road contracting sector for many
years. Road construction and maintenance has either been undertaken by force-account or by public
sector construction companies. Experience from many other countries suggests that construction and
periodic maintenance costs can be significantly reduced by contracting the work to competent private
sector contractors. This component in the Project is included to enable Government to carry out
studies on this and other sector related issues, if the need should arise during Project implementation.
D. Risks
4.19          Security remains a problem in Ethiopia and there is a possibility that implementation
of the civil works might be affected. Otherwise, there is only limited risk connected with the
implementation of the civil works component of the Project, since the work will be carried out by
contracts awarded under ICB. With the support of consultants for procurement and supervision the
ERA should have no difficulty in managing the project. With respect to extending the life of the
entire road and the Project's objective of rehabilitating sections in need of urgent repairs, there is a
risk that sections not included in the Project might fail and require investment sooner than anticipated
(Mille-Awash). This risk, however, is reduced by the inclusion in the Project of the PMS with
appropriate technical assistance during the initial stage. Also, the Project includes a component for
the procurement of road maintenance equipment which will improve ERA's capacity to carry out
routine and periodic maintenance.
4.20          Another risk to the Project relates to the implementation of a new Axle Load Control
System. The Axle Load Control System, which aims at reducing overloading and preventing
premature deterioration of the reconstructed roads (as well as other sections of the paid road system),
may not be successful due to possible weaknesses of RTA to enforce fully the proposed system, or
due to general socio-behavioral factors. Some risk is associated with the Pavement Management
System which may not be successfully implemented because of possible organizational weaknesses.
These risks are reduced by the fact that technical assistance will be provided under the Project. In
addition, Government has already in place the basic infrastructure for vehicle axleload control-even if
results are presently only used to gather statistical data.



- 41 -
V. AGREEME AND RECOMMENDAQI
A. Actions Already Taken
5.01         Prior to negotiations, Government provided IDA with the following:
(i)   A detailed list of specialized equipment needed for road maintenance units on
the Addis Ababa - Assab Road (para. 2.25); (Annex 16).
(ii)   A detailed training program for ERA staff (para. 2.27) Annex 17; and
(iii) An action plan for the implementation of the axle load control system (Annex
11).
B. eements Reached
5.02         The following agreements were reached during Project negotiations:
(a)    ERA will adopt functional road classification system by December 31, 1993.
Such a classification system should clarify, inter alia, issues pertinent to rural
roads and recent decentralization of Government institutions (para. 2.01);
(b)    Starting June 1, 1994 the GOE will submit to IDA for annual review,
progress reports on the implementation of the new axle load legislation (para.
2.06);
(c)    Starting with FY93 ERA will submit to DA for its review and comments on
the proposed annual road maintenance program and budget (para. 2.16);
(d)    ERA will establish by June 30, 1994 and thereafter maintain a Pavement
Management System to monitor the paved road network and to assist in the
programming of paved road maintenance (para. 3.13);
(e)    There will be a mid-term review of the project implementation by mid 1995
(para 3.20);
(f)    A Special Account for ERA of US$1,000,000 equivalent will be established in
the National Bank of Ethiopia (para. 3.24);
(g)    ERA will, by March 31, 1993 have established its own design department
(Para 2. 10).



- 42 -
C. Conddons of EfftIvenm
5.03         (a)    GOE has sent the legal opinion to IDA stating that the execution and delivery
of the Development Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governent actions.
(b)    GOE has submitted to IDA all outstanding audit reports for the Second Road
Sector Project (cr. 1404-El).
D. Recommendation
5.04         Subject to the above, the Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR66.4 million
(US$96.0 million equivalent) at standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Government of
Ethiopia.



-43-                            Annex 1
ETHIOPIA
RpAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Vehicl- Fleet
TvDes of Vehicles    1985/86 1298/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90   1990/91
1.   Passenger cars   37,969        29,649      28,329      27,357      28,952    28,004
2.   Land Rovers             -       9,401      10,020       8,364       8,438      8,811
3.   Taxi                4,307       3,454       3,530       2,582       1,104        984
4.   Small Suses         3,507       2,948       3,027       2,796       3,570      5,275
S.   Large Buses         1,071       1,114       1,080       1,075         890        724
6.   Mini Truck          7,151       4,501       5,314       5,129       5,036      6,717
(up to 7t)
7.   Trucks (7-14t)    6,843         5,226       6,192       5,284       3,956      4,733
8.   Trailer             2,475       1,338       1,745       1,766       1,413      1,529
9.   Truck-tractor           -         958         783         763         692        584
10.  Semi-trailer            -         958         701         803         522        228
11.  Tanker (liquid)       879         972       1,128         836         855        715
12.  Trailers (liquid)   624           401         431         461         474        366
13.  Semi-trailer            -          64          67          21          83         68
(liquid)
TOTAL             64,826      60,984      62,347      57,237      55,985    58,738
SOURCE: Ministry of Transport and Communications, Addis Ababa, 1990



-44'                               ANN.X 2
,THIOPrA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Consum tion of P-troleum Products
(in '000 of MT)
PRODUCTS                1986/87      1987/88      1988/89     1929/90      1990/91
Gasoline Regular        172.491      170.164          127          120         125
Diesel Oil              439.551      453.770          399          385         349
puel Oil                129.336      134.377          138          117          70
Aviation Fuels          126.354      154.219          124          116         l15
Lubricants               15.00        17.02            19           18          -*
Kerosene                 62.980       80.440           74           77          40
* Not AvaLlable
SOURCEs ZthiopLan Petroleum Corporatlon, Addis Ababa, 1990



-45-
-45-                     ~~~~~~ANNEX 3
ETHIOPIA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Volume of Caroo Tranrnorted by Road
(in million)
Dry Cargo                 Fual                    Total
Year            tonr     ton-km          tons    ton-km                    ton-
1984/85         5.1      1,707.7         0.8      551.5          5.9      2,259.2
1895/86         5.3      2,050.2         0.9      572.5          6.2      2,622.7
1986/87         5.3      2,048.6         1.0      635.5          6.3      2,684.1
1987/88         5.2      1,898.7         1.1      680.6          6.3      2,579.3
1988/89         5.3      1,937.9         1.1      787.5          6.4      2,725.4
1989/901/       5.4      2,269.1         1.2      910.6          6.6      3,179.7
1990/91         4.0      1845.3          1.0      638.3          5.0      2,483.6
SOURCE:  Ministry of Transport and Communications, Addis Ababa, 1990
j/ Total transport by all modes (excluding international shipping) was
7.07 million tons



-46-
,ZTHIOPIA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Actual Recurrent Exoenditure on Road Maintenance
(in Birr '000)
-------------------------FISCAL YEAR-------------------------
1985/86    1986/87   1987/88    1298/89    1989/902   1990/91
Administrative and        3,313       2,400      2,800       3,100       4,447      3,490
General Services
Engineering and          10,369       5,400      5,700       6,300       3,579      4,385
Technical Services
Road Maintenance         24,797      26,703    27,494       33,430      34,550     31,654
Rural Road                4,777       3,899      6,S88       8,341       8,475      8,422
Maintenance
TOTAL             43,256      36,903    42,582      51,171      51,051      47,951
SOURCE: Ethiopian Road Authority, Addis Ababa, 1990



_47_                      ~~~~~~ANNEX 
- 47-.
THIOPIA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Capital Expenditur* on Roads
(in Birr '000)
A. Inv-stm-nts In N-w Road Constructionl/
YEAR           C~~~OVERNMENT          FOREIGN              TOTAL
1984/85                  35,620               -                35,620
1895/86                  26,439             10,923             37,362
1986/87                  38,204             16,749             54,953
1987/88                  41,413             17,056             58,469
1988/89                  45,900             18,149             64,049
1989/90                  42,500               -                42,500
1990/91                  29,125                                29,125
B.  Investmgnt in Road Eauiment
1984/85                   1,649                                 1,649
1895/86                   2,608               -                 2,608
1986/87                  16,529             32,966             49,495
1987/88                    -                  -                  _
1988/89                     359              5,483              5,842
1989/90                   6,814              5,440             12,254
1990/91
SOURCE: ERA, Addis Ababa, 1990
.;/ Includes Rural Roads Construction



- 48-                                                     ANNEX 6
ETHIOPIA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
REVESUE FROM ROAD nUER CHARGES
(In Mittfons)
SOURCE               1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91
........... ....  . . . . ... ...... ......  . .........    .......  ..........    .......  ..........    .......  ..........    .......    ......... ....
1. Vohiel Inspection and           5.9        6.3         6.1        6.9        7.3         7.8       0.30       8.20       7.95
Registratfon fees
2. Driving Lfcense fees             1.3        1.3        1.8        2.2        2.0         1.6       2.30       2.37       2.48
3.  import dutflo an Motor        43.3        39.4       39.8       28.2       49.3 *      59.5 *   46.73 *    54.67       123.20
VehicLes mnd accessories
4.  Tax on Petroleta  Products    34.7        40.4       41.2       43.5       40.2 a      43.7 *    44.67 *    66.80      71.50
S.  Tax on Imported Potroleum      0.1           -        1.3        1.0         1.5 *      1.4 *     1.20*      1.40      25.20
Products
.....      -----.     .....      .....   .  . .....     -----.    . .....     .....   .   ..... .....  
TOTAL        85.3       87.4       90.2        81.8      100.3      114.0      95.20      133.44     230.33
Mumama     MauazM     mamma.    a amas.a=a=    amsasa .ans                    an          mann==
SOURCE:  Road Transport Authority and Ministry of Finance
NOTE:  *Proelminary Istimtes.



-49-                                 ILX 7
RTIPIA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJZCT
Structurg of Fuel Pric-cl/
(in Birr per liter)
DZIHEL.*           GASOLINZ*
(Regular)
Ex-Refinery Price                     0.52               0.86
Excise Tax                            0.06               0.41
Municipality Tax                      0.02               0.02
Distribution Margin                   0.04               0.05
Retailers Margin                      0.03               0.04
Selling Price (Arsab)                 0.68               1.28
Selling Price (Addis)j/               0.79               1.50
SOURCE: Ethiopian Petroleum Corporation, Addis Ababa, 1990
)A/ Am of October 1990
/  Addis price higher due to transport costs



ERA Organization Ghart
GEiNER-AL|
L EGC3AL                       M AN AG E R                           ADMINISTRAT
S}ERVICES                                ________________AND TRfWNING
I    _  I              l              l              l             l~~  I          I
PRRAMING             ESN       | CHIEF          SUPPLIES AND     FINANCIAL    AUDIT AND      RURAL
_ PROGRAMM#ING   _    DESI N    t ENGINEER      EQUIPMENT        SERVICES      METHODS       ROADS
-Planning       - Survey                          Procurement  General          Computing
Programming    - Road Design                    Parts and     Accounting      Audit
and Budgetting  - Bridge Design                 Supplies                    - Methods
- Monitoring    - Materials and                  -Equipment    Cost Accounrins
and Evalualion    Research                                    Properq Records
OPERATIONS|
MANAGER|
ROAD             ROAD            CONTRACT               | TECNICAL           4   OE
AINTENANCE    CONSTRUCTION |  ADMINISTRATION |FCSSERVICES                      OFC
District        | Force Accr         Contract                Castr. U n         Regional
Managers (8)     Construction      oContact              L Constr.Unit          (14)
Road Safety      -Bailey Bridges    r                        C        U
Road Markings   _.uarry Operations   Contract                Constr. Unit   i  Regional
Mtc. Offces
n 0o
x
0



MOHUD&C
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER
Audit
and Inspectora
VICE                                                               V,IC
MINISTER, CONSTR                                                   MINISTER. URS3AN|
Psemkq~~~~~~~~~~~
aATU                                                                                                           Wheon
l  | EFn TAX                                     m                     X                      E             |t        i          l
ElA  MeuSifig
aa.                                                                                f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aowrt ionm



- 52-                                    Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
ETHIOPIA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outlined Terms of Reference for the
Development and Implementation of a Pavement Management System
A. Backi!round
1.           The road network in Ethiopia consists of 19,020 km of all weather roads, of which 4,115
km are paved. The paved roads primarily radiate from Addis Ababa, the capital, to the major provincial
cities and to the port of Assab. As a result of age, overloading and insufficient road maintenance, over
many years, the road network is now showing signs of rapid deterioration. A large portion of the paved
road network will be in need of rehabilitation and reconstruction in the near future. As part of a strategy
for dealing with this problem, Government intends to introduce a country specific Pavement Management
System (PMS) that will enable the ERA to monitor the performance of the paved roads and provide the
basis for guiding the allocation of resources for road maintenance.
2.           For this purposes, the Government require the services of an engineering consultant with
relevant experience to advise ERA on the form and operation of an appropriate PMS and to assist with
the implementation of the system.
B. Obiective
3.           The objective of the consultancy is to institute a Pavement Management System, so that
ERA can better assess, alert itself to potential problems and plan its road maintenance, rehabilitation and
reconstruction needs in a timely and optimal fashion.
4.           The system will be based on regular, objective assessments of pavement condition
parameters. Data on pavement condition will be compared with data on traffic volumes, axle loads and
weather conditions to provide the necessary inputs for assessment of future maintenance needs and
necessary funding. The system will further provide a basis for a long term monitoring of pavement
performance and residual life of the pavement, as a background for an optimum maintenance program.
C. Services to be Provided by the Consultant
5.           The PMS will cover the whole of the paved road network in Ethiopia and should allow
for the likely extension of this network over the next decade. The work of the consultant will fall under
the following main headings:



Annox 2
-53-                                Page 2 of 3
(i)    Establish Procedures.
6.       The consultant will review the existing organizational and financial arrangements for road
maintenance and rehabilitation, including maintenance planning and budgeting. The consultant will review
present maintenance practices and identify standard maintenance activities.
7.           The consultant will design and establish procedures for monitoring pavement condition,
by carrying out regular measurements and inspections. It is envisaged that the parameters to be
monitored will be: deflection, cracking, potholes, rut depth and shoulder defects. The consultant should
introduced/recommend parameters in addition to the above, if considered desirable.
8.           The consultant will assess the available equipment in the country for pavement monitoring
and recommend additional equipment and spare parts needed. He will assist in the procurement of such
additional equipment if requested to do so.
9.           It is envisaged that the monitoring will be carried out by a special unit to be set up and
trained for this purpose within ERA. The consultant will provide the necessary guidance and training
for the establishment of this unit.
11.          The consultant will determine the program for the data collection, i.e., the portion of the
network to be included, the division of the network into sections and subsections, the frequency of data
collection for each section and the distance between points where data will be monitored. He will
determine the criteria for implementing the various maintenance tasks (threshold values).
12.   The consultant will specify guidelines for estimating future maintenance cost of paved roads, and
unit costs of various pavement maintenance tasks.
13.          The consultant will also develop methods to predict future maintenance requirements and
residual life of the various sections of pavement.
14.          The consultant will advise Government on the operation of the new axle load control
system.
(ii)   Implementation
15.          It is envisaged that data collected as part as the monitoring process will be processed in
microcomputers. The consultant will develop a system for data handling suitable for local condition, and
train local staff in the process of both data collection and data processing. He will establish suitable
report forms that can be of particular assistance to ERA's management at different levels in long term
planning, short term maintenance programming and in budgeting annual maintenance operations.
16.    The consultant will carry out preliminary testing of the computer program, and will develop the
necessary modifications that may be needed.



Annex 9
- 54-                             Page 3 of 3
17.    The consultant will design a long term field testing program to review the empirical functions
used in the program to estimate the residual life of the pavement, and to predict future pavement
deficiency parameters, such as cracking, rutting, etc., in order to improve the forecasting accuracy of the
pavement management system.
18.     The consultant will assist ERA in the start-up of data collection and processing of data for a
period of 3 months and shall carry out the final modifications of the program that may become necessary.
(iii) Reortinz
19.           The consultant will prepare an inception report within three months of starting his
assignment. The inception report will give an outline of the study program for approval by the client.
Every two months, during the study, he will prepare progress reports. The assignment will end up with
a manual that describes the system in detail and can be used as instruction manuals for local operators
both in the field and in the data handling process at Headquarters. The consultant will also be called
upon to organize workshops for maintenance personal both at Headquarters and in the field, so that staff
can become familiar with the new procedures.
D. Services to be provided by the Client
20.           Government will provide local staff to operate all components of the pavement
management system, both during the study phase and for future operations. Government will also
provide the relevant equipment that is already in the country and assist in the procurement of additional
equipment if needed. Funds for the recurrent budget necessary to operate the pavement management
system will be budgeted for.
E. FOllOW-Up
21.           Consultant might be called upon to assist Government in the operation of the Pavement
Management System. For that purpose, the consultant should make suitable staff available on a short
term basis for the next three to five years to assist when and if called upon.
22.           The consultant shall assist in the maintenance of software, i.e., correcting any
programmning deficiencies which may become apparent during the use. Any software royalty charge shall
be considered full and sufficient compensation to cover such maintenance responsibilities.



Annex 1 0
-55-                               Page 1 of 1
ETHIOPIA ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
COMPONENT   1993 : 1994    1995 : 1996 1997
1. CIVIL WORKS                        I                    .
. .    .   .    .    .   .    .    .   .   .   .    .  .   .   .    .   .   .    .   .... . . .   .   ...I  L    .
Logia - Semera                      I _
Elidar - Bure                    I
Bure - Assab                   _     _|_               __l
11. TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
Supervision                                                      ,
PMS Consultancy
Design Reviews                      l_l
Training and Twinning               .
Design Manual/Specs.
III EQUIPMENT
Maintenance Equipment                               i
I.            I             I     



-56-                          AnnexmLli
Page 1 of 1
ETHIOPIA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Timetable for the Implementation of New Axle Load Legislation
The following action plan for the implementation of the new regulations has
been agreed upon:
(i)   GOE to start enforcing the new           July 1, 1993
regulations.
(ii)    GOE to start repair existing           June 1, 1993
weighbridge stations.
(iii)   GOE to prepare a plan for the           March 1, 1994
introduction of mobDle units,
including civil works and
equipment.
(iv)   GOE to design and implement an           March 31, 1993
information campaign on the
new regulations.
(v)   GOE to submit to IDA for                 June 1, 1994
review and comments annual
reports on program implementation.



Annex1
-57-                            Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Economic Analysis
A. Estimated Vehicle Ogerating Costs on Mille-Assab Road1'
(in Birr/km)
Vehicle               Rolling Terrain              Hilly Terrain
Ty2e
1. Light Vehicle            0.759 + 0.000089*R        0.760 + 0.000101*R
2. Bus                       1.898 + 0.000139*R        2.038 + 0.000179*R
3. Truck                     1.656 + 0.000274*R        1.898 + 0.000364*R
4. Truck/Trailer             4.363 + 0.000774*R        4.898 + 0.001377*R
1/    In 1990 price. Over the economic life of the project the VOCs rise as a function of
the estimated road roughness.
B. Estimated Road Maintenance Costs '
(in Birr per km/year)
Without the Project   With the Project
1. Routine maintenance                   14,703               5,396
2. Periodic maintenance           No difference in costs is assumed
2/    Intensity of road maintenance/repair in "without the project case") is assumed to
increase as a function of road roughness, according to the relationship:
Routine Maintenance Costs (Birr/Km) = 5.02*R - 4419
C. Estimated Road Surface Roughness
Road roughness is estimated to increase as a function of the damaging effect of traffic,
measured by the number of equivalent standard axles, and the structural strength of the
pavement. The project will both reduce initial roughness and provide a stronger pavement,
thus reducing the impact of heavy commercial traffic.
SOURCE       Based on experience and estimates of ERA and relevant
consultants reports, Addis Ababa, 1991.



ETNIOPIA
OM UENIILITATION PSOJECT
5UMIW  OF ECaIC MALTSIS
REMUAILITATION: IILLE - AS    N
LOGIA- SEmA (41 m)                   ELIUU   -IE (80 KM)           *UIE  AS (7SA KN)                     NILLE -ASSA
Ttetl
Capital   Voc  Naintnce    Not       Capital   Voc  Naintnce    met       Capital   Voc  Usilatne      lbt         Not
Costs   Sving Saving  Sanf its    Costs   sving  Saving  Iawfits    Costs   Saving Saving  6unaf its             Isif its
1993  29.100                   -29.800      26.212                   -26.212                                            -56.062
1994  44.690                   -.690        45.994                   -45.994     24.042                   -24.042      -114.726
199s            9.575   0.511   10.066      59.134                   -59.134     42.074                   -42.074       -91.120
1996           10.403   0.531   10.934              27.419   0.737  2a.206       54.094                   -54.094       -14.954
197            11.30M    O.SSO   11.8a8             29.09     0.796  29.as                27.999   0.766   28.764        7O.s18
1a             12.296   0.570   12.868              30.896   0.305  31.700                29.719   0.774   30.493        75.061
199            13.381   0.590   13.971              32.817   0.814   33.630               31.55?   0.7M3   32.340        79.942
2000           14.S66   0.612   15.17B              34.872    0.624  35.696               33.524   0.792  34.316         as.189
2001           1S.862   0.635   16.497              37.072   0.034   37.906               35.628   0.802  36.430         90.a33
2002           17.282   0.658   17.940              39.430    0.845  40.274               37.882    0.812   38.694       96.90s
2003           18.836   0.683   19.520              41.956   o.856  42.812                40.296   0.822   41.119       103.451
2004           20.539   0.710   21.249              44.666    0.868  45.534               42.A85   0.833   43.718        110.S01                        ao
2005           22.405   0.737  23.142               47.573   0.881  48.454                45.t66    0.845  46.56         118.102
2006           24.449   0.766  25.216                50.695    0.894  51.89               4.641   o.asr  49.496          126.302
2007           26.690   0.797   27.487               54.049   0.907  54.956               51.841   0.870  52.711         13515S4
2008           29.148   0.829  29.977                57.654    0.922  56.576              55.279   O.W84  56.163         144.71S
2009           31.843   0.862  32.705                61.532    0.937  62.469              s8.976   O.896  s9.874         155.047
2010                                                 6s.705    0.953  66.6s5              62.952   0.913  63.865         130.523
2011                                                                                      67.233   0.929  68.162         68.162
1 R                  17.3 X                               22.2 Z                               24.3 X                 21.7 I
MPV (121)   Birr   25.S2 miltion                         88.01 million                        89.92 .itlin           203.45 million
Sewitivity Analys
(IRA)
LOGIA - SERA       ELIDA  - OUIE       OURIE - ASSA     NILLE - ASSAS
(a) Costs +151       15.01            10.61               21.61             19.21
(b) lenfits -25X    12.8X             11.11               19.01             16.7X
(c) (a) * (b)        10.81            14.91               16.6X             14.51
Source:  Based on Report prepared  by ERA,  December  1990                                                                                                  o   Z
and  IDA 1992 mission estimates.                                                                                                                 NX
oN



Annex 13
-59-                               Page 1 of 4
ETHIOPIA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proiect Progress Reporting Requirements and Supervision Plan
L.    Progress Reports shall be submitted quarterly in triplicate no later than one calendar month
after the end of the quarter. The first report should cover the quarter ending December 1991.
11.   The Report should contain the following information:
1.    General Information
(a)   Physical progress accomplished during the reporting period in respect of:
(i) Road Rehabilitation
- prequalification of contractors
- invitation to bid
- bid receipt and evaluation
- contract award
- preliminaries to mobilization
- construction progress
(ii) Procurement of Road Maintenance Equigment
- preparation of bidding documents
- invitation to bids
- bid receipt and evaluation
- contract award
- delivery of goods
(iii) Procurement of Materials
- assessment of needs
- calling quotations
- receipt and evaluation of quotations
- contract award
- delivery of goods
(iv) Technical Assistance
- calling proposals
- receipt and evaluation of proposals
- contract award
- arrival date of staff
- man-months expanded



Annex 13
-60-                             Page 2 of 4
(vii) Training
- preparation of training program
- selection of trainees
- course(s) held with dates
- numbers and categories of staff trained
(b)   actual or expected deviations from the project implementation schedule;
(c)   actual or expected-difficulties or delays and their effects on the implementation
schedule, and the steps planned or taken to overcome the difficulties and avoid
further delay;
(d)   expected changes in the completion date of the project;
(e)   key personnel changes in the staffs of the ERA, consultants or contractors;
(t)    matters which may affect the cost of the project; and
(g)   any development activity likely to affect the economic viability of project
components.
2.    A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation schedule, showing the
progress on each project component.
3.    A financial statement set out in a tabular form showing for each project component:
(a)   original estimated cost
(b)   revised cost, if appropriate;
(c)   actual expenditure;
(d)   projected expenditure; and
(e)   actual and projected withdrawals from the Credit Account.
4.    The status o[ compliance on each covenant of the Credit Agreement.
III.   Project Supervision
1.    Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities. The staff input indicated in the table below is
in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions,
correspondence, etc.



-61 -                          Annex 13
Page 3 of 4
2. Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)   Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of the ERA.
(b)   ERA will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision
missions, and for providing information required by missions.
(c)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and wrap-up meetings will normally be chaired
by the General Manager, ERA.



Annex 13
-62-                             Page 4 of 4
Bank SuDervision Input into Key Activities
Approx                  Activity                Skills Required         Staff Input
Dates                                                                         SW
10/92      Supervision mission                  TM, RRE, EC                    5
Discuss strategy paper on
Rural Roads
04/93       Supervision mission                 TM,                            4
Discuss progress on axle
load control
10/93      Supervision mission                  TM, RRE, ENV, TRG              9
Review progress on RR
activities
Review Mtc Program
1994       2 Supervision missions               TM, EC,                        7
Review Mtc. Programe
Review PMS implement
1995       2 Supervision missions               TM, EC                         8
Review Mtc Program
Mid-term review
1996       2 Supervision mission                TM, EC,                        6
Prepare PCR
Review Mtc Program
1997       2 Supervision mission                TM,                            8
1998        1 Supervision mission               TM, EC                         8
TM  = Task Manager
HE  = Highway Engineer
EC  = Economist
RRE = Rural Roads Expert
ENV = Environmental Expert
TRG = Training Expert



-63-                                 Annex 14
Page 1 of 1
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT (RRP)
ROAD MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
ITEM       TYPE           NUMBER  UNIT PRICE  TOTAL COST   ERA          ERA
No.                                USS '000                 PROPOSAL TOTAL
1   Grader                    5          150          750         7   1050
2   Dozer                     3          225          675         4    900
3   Dumptruck                10           75          750        10    750
4   Flat Truck                3           55           165        3    165
5   Distributer               2          100          200         2    200
6   Crusher                   1          955          955         2   1910
7   Loader                    3          140          420         4    560
8   Roller                    3           65          195         4    260
9   Pickup                    5           30          150         7    210
10   Spreader                  3           80          240         3    240
11   Boiler                    3           35          105         5    175
12   Compressor                3           40           120        4    160
13   Drill                     2           55           110        4    220
14   Broom                     2           50           100        2    100
15   Water Truck               3           70          210         4    280
16   Generator                 3           30            90        2     60
17   Water Pump                3           10            30        2     20
18   Minor Items               1           45            45        1     45
TOTAL                                            5310             7305



-64-                         ~~~~ANNEX  15
-64,-                                    Page 1 of 1
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT (RRP)
ETHIOPIAN ROADS AUTHORITY
TRAINING PROGRAM
COST ESTIMATE USS
AREA OF SPECILIZATION                               NO.    DURATION           PER PERSON        GROUP
Financial Management                                  3        6 months             8,000        24,000
Auditing Practice                                     2        6 months             8,000         16,000
Equipment Management                                  3       12 months            12,000        36,000
Personnel Management                                  2        6 months             8,000         16,000
Transportation Planning                               2       12 months             12,000        24,000
Highway Engineering (Design)                          3       12 months            12,000        36,000
Contract Management                                   2        6 months             8,000         16,000
Road Maintenance Management                           6        6 months             8,000        48,000
Workshop Management                                   4        6 months             8,000        32,000
Road Maintenance Budgeting                            2        6 months             8,000         16,000
Transport Economics                                   3        9 months            10,000         30,000
Rural Roads Labor Based Techn.                        6        3 months             6,000        36,000
Training of Trainers                                  4        6 months             8,000        32,000
Highway Costing                                       2        6 months             8,000         16,000
Project Evaluation                                    3        3 months             6,000         18,000
Computer Science                                      3       12 months            20,000        60,000
50                                         456,000



MAP SECTION






IBRD 2283Q
IEGYPT               S.AU D.
ARABIA .-....                                                                                                                                                            ETHIOPIA
CI                  -             -,                                          ,                                                                                              ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
}\ S U.-                        D                                        0 zJ s fJ FJ@+I1400,                                (                                               Rood, UR d. Mio,,ore.
rA I                                                                                                                                                                                              R-.  _ /  -  _  A p_io0, U  .d i C-,e,p-
,'         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
U.     i                                             I                                           2                                                                           -     Gso_I oII-'-.1'',
\C  ,.ASCUA t  oId-                                                                                 @7                                                                                f A  f  "'  tkrl odw_s
r (CUGol;o} ;A     Inr otrD C    NOO
jgJo i;- AbvAdsoof *t \S.U.                         ,R,,U O          0 Oo'4  
R-od, Uo.pCooUd,o
SOc  =                                          !l\+             -      p<; GUZdNI A                                                                                         =sel  Go,soI oI,oUpi,[
-. -  -                                                                                         '                                                                                           )Y A   Iddt A, >) AomnistrnotioooA  region  p ilo .
,,  S  U  D  A     N        . /        j            Goffl    AdBiw_@-         LozLzla>       Kobo                                                                           '       ooc p
,iFIO~~dloy   woolor    3obo.   >v                       >~~    /    DJIBOUTI.
.4.~~~~~~~~~~~ '4-                                                                                                                                                                4-    PU,,,\ -   en     1 >t  
D...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
I          \-/A-b2tX/   V  'mX  /W   //                                                                                                                                                                                          ol~~I AB
2_.          -4J                                                             S.-MAN              -                                                                                         I    A
~t          /004455005 02                                                                                                                                                                     5 -0    150   20D   250   ?D0   350   'D0
UGANDA           _     ..                         K    E      N      Y      A                                                                                                             -E .,   ,.,'j .,  ALES00    D50              2IS       250
JANUARY I 99



