                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 30031-CN




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (IF-N0270 TF-29625)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 51.4 MILLION (US$70 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                              PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                        FOR A

                        NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT




                                     March 30, 2005




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective September 2004)

                                Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB) Yuan (CNY)
                                     CNY 1.0 = US$ 0.12
                                       US$ 1.0 = 8.3

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    - Country Assistance Strategy
CPO    - Count Project Office
GOC    - Government of China
DfID   - Department for International Development (of the United Kingdom)
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding
KAP    - Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
M&E    - Monitoring and Evaluation
MOH    - Ministry of Health
MTR    - Mid-Term Review
NPHCC  - National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee
NPO    - National Project Office
NPV    - Net Present Value
NRWS   - National Rural Water Supply Project
O&M    - Operations and Maintenance
PPIAF  - Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PPO    - Provincial Project Office
PVC    - Poly-vinylchloride (pipes)
RWSS   - Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SARS   - Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
UNICEF - United Nations Children's Fund
WTP    - Water Treatment Plant



                               Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                            Country Director:     Mr. David Dollar, EACCF
                             Sector Director:     Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                          Task Team Leader:       Mr. Thomas L. Zearley, EASUR

                                 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
                        NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
    6. Sustainability                                                                10
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
    9. Partner Comments                                                              17
    10. Additional Information                                                       18
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Map IBRD 28662R

Project ID: P003637                                                  Project Name: NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Thomas L. Zearley                                       TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY                              L/C/TF Number: IF-N0270; TF-29625
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (91%); Sanitation (3%); Health (3%); Primary
                            education (3%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other human development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/09/1996                                     Effective: 11/12/1997                11/12/1997
     Appraisal: 03/28/1997                                         MTR: 03/15/2001                  03/15/2001
      Approval: 06/23/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          People's Republic of China/National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee
                      Other Partners:      Provinces of Gansu, Hebei, Hubei, Jiangxi, Yunnan and the Inner-Mongolia
                                           Autonomous Region

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David Dollar                                   Yukon Huang
Sector Manager/Director:        Keshav Varma                                   Nicholas C. Hope
Team Leader at ICR:             Thomas L. Zearley                              Lee Travers
ICR Primary Author:             Osmo K. Tammela; Param Iyer;
                                Eddie Hum


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background. In the mid to late 1990s, rural Chinese were living longer, healthier lives thanks to better
nutrition, higher immunization rates and substantial improvements in rural water supply. However, despite
progress in improving access to safe water, over 300 million rural inhabitants still lacked access to safe,
adequate water supply. Poor sanitary conditions and unhygienic practices exacerbated health problems
created by a lack of clean water. National level health campaigns were set up to encourage hygienic
behavior, but change came slowly.

In the 15 years preceding this project's appraisal in March 1997, rural water supply was a prominent
development priority for China, with investment increasing steadily from 1986 to 1995. At first,
development efforts focused on potable water for urban areas and for more easily served and wealthier
rural areas. The Ninth Five-Year Plan (1996-2000), shifted focus toward more remote areas, calling for
65% access to safe water in China's poorest rural areas by 2000. To help meet this goal which entailed
serving an additional 88 million people, the Government of China (GOC) targeted investments to the most
water-scarce areas. In addition, sector planners were aiming for 50% coverage of piped water supply by
2000.

In the sanitation sector, the National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee (NPHCC) had been working
since the 1950s to expand the use of latrines in rural areas. In December 1996, a "Resolution on
sanitation reform and development" was issued, emphasizing: (a) having health and sanitation expenditures
keep pace with overall economic growth; (b) strengthening the management capacities of responsible
organizations; and (c) cooperative funding and management for latrines. NPHCC sanitation goals for 2000
ranged from 35% sanitary latrine coverage in the poorest areas to 80% in the wealthiest.

In terms of health education, since 1996, NPHCC had been cooperating with various agencies to promote
a "national health education campaign for 900 million farmers". The campaign emphasized the healthful
use of clean water and sanitation facilities, and called for more training of village-level health officials and
the establishment of health education institutes. Its goal was to have 50% of the rural population practicing
safe hygienic habits by 2000. In order to help meet these ambitious goals, GOC requested IDA assistance
for the National Rural Water Supply Project, approved on June 23, 1997.

The project's primary objectives were: (a) to provide access to safe, conveniently located water to rural
people in 40 counties and five provinces; (b) to improve water-related health and sanitation practices; (c) to
provide water at the lowest possible cost; and (d) to ensure sustainability through good maintenance and
accounting practices.

3.2 Revised Objective:
    The objectives of the main project components did not change. However, after the Severe Acute
    Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak in the winter of 2003, the Ministry of Health (MoH) requested
    a reallocation of SDR 571,429 from this IDA Credit for a SARS prevention program. Upon IDA's
    approval, a fourth component, SARS Prevention, was added and Schedule 2 was amended to include
    the following objective: "...to assist the Borrower in carrying out a program to control and manage the
    incidence and spread of SARS and infectious diseases." This component is ongoing and will be
    covered under the ICR for the Basic Health Services Project.

3.3 Original Components:




                                                      - 2 -

The project had three main components:

    (a) Water Supply ($116.4 million). This component provided safe water, sustainably financed, to
    poor communities currently lacking such supplies. Project design maximized community participation
    in selecting service alternatives. Full cost recovery from water users was expected. Support for the
    water system operator and accounting training to ensure low-cost operation and sustainability were
    also available.

    (b) Sanitation and Health Education ($11.5 million). This component provided assistance to
    ongoing village sanitation and health education efforts by working with primary school teachers, village
    doctors, Women's Federation representatives, and public health systems in their efforts to improve
    water use and sanitation practices in project villages. It supported demonstration programs to increase
    the use of composting latrines; the preparation of health education messages aimed at expanding the
    adaptation of improved sanitation and hygiene practices among the target beneficiaries, primarily
    housewives, school-aged children and decision makers in households; and training of health education
    specialists in the delivery of those messages.

    (c) Project Management ($6.1 million). This component increased project office capacity to provide
    services to beneficiary villages. It included surveys and research on effective strategies to expand
    adoption of improved sanitation and to convey health messages, as well as training in project
    management skills such as procurement, water supply technologies, water quality protection, and
    health message delivery.

    These three components were to be implemented in the five provinces of Yunnan, Hebei, Hubei, Inner
    Mongolia (Nei-Mongol) and Jiangxi, which were all among the nationally or provincially designated
    poor counties, selected according to their: (a) rural poverty, where the poorest were given first rights to
    participate; (b) percentage of rural people without access to improved piped water supply; (c) number
    of people exposed to unsafe water; (d) existing provincial plans targeting priority areas of rural water
    improvement; (e) demonstrated ability to provide the needed counterpart funds; and (f) willingness to
    form and staff a county project office to agreed standards. Annex 1 summarizes by province the
    amount of project investments, number of counties served, number of beneficiaries, number of villages,
    and the target percentage of the rural population with access to improved water supply at completion.

3.4 Revised Components:

    During the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in 2001, it was found that Jiangxi Province could not fully
    commit its allocation, so Gansu Province was admitted to the project. After this addition, the project
    included 46 counties in six provinces. As noted in paragraph 3.2, a SARS Prevention component was
    added.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

    Quality at entry is rated satisfactory for the following reasons.

    Alignment with GOC Policy. The project's objectives were directly aligned with GOC's strategy for
    the rural water and sanitation sector. The project supported GOC's Ninth Five-Year Plan's goal of
    assisting the poorest, most remote and most water-scarce counties (classified as "national poverty
    counties") by increasing rural water supply, improving sanitary habits, and educating the poor about
    the importance of proper hygiene. The criteria for choosing the participating provinces and counties



                                                      - 3 -

were clearly applied.

Alignment with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). At the same time, the project was fully
aligned with IDA's CAS of March 1997. The CAS highlighted "human development" as one of the
five major themes for Bank Group support. Within that theme, poverty reduction played a major role.
The poverty reduction program sought to increase the resources controlled by the poor by generating
income, contributing to productivity, or protecting physical well-being. Improving rural water and
sanitation contributed to poverty reduction by releasing labor for purposes other than fetching water
and by improving beneficiary health.

Quality of Design. The project's design satisfactorily incorporated water supply, sanitation and
health education, in keeping with internationally accepted standards of integrating these three areas in
order to maximize the project's impact in terms of health and economic benefits. The project
management component helped build capacity in terms of procurement, water supply technologies,
water quality protection, targeting health message delivery, cost recovery, measuring and monitoring
performance indicators, and incorporating beneficiary participation. Key indicators for measuring
financial sustainability were weak and indicators for providing water at the lowest possible cost were
not provided.

Application of Bank Safeguard Policies. The project fully complied with Bank safeguard policies as
described below.

a) Environment. This project was correctly assigned category "B" for its potential adverse impacts
from construction or failure to protect water supply sources. The project had a sufficiently detailed
environmental mitigation plan (SAR, annex 6) and Chinese design manuals contained adequate
guidelines for proper water system construction practices.

b) Land acquisition/resettlement. Land acquisition was known only from year to year, but was
identified as 11.7 ha for the first year. Resettlement was expected to be minimal, so the agreed
Resettlement Policy Framework (SAR, annex 11) was appropriate.

c) Indigenous peoples. IDA's social experts agreed that the project's participatory design allowed
any potential adverse impact on minority groups to be mitigated. The project's design left to potential
project villages the choice of whether or not to participate. If they decided to participate, they had
approval power over project designs. This process ensured that the investments would be socially and
culturally compatible with the development needs of the beneficiary minority populations.

Risk Assessment.      Most major issues and risks were identified at appraisal including: (a) inadequate
counterpart financing from provincial and local governments; (b) lack of efficient financial and
physical operation of the water plants; (c) possible resistance to implementing the required tariff
structure; and (d) failure of the health education and sanitation program to induce significant
behavioral changes. The project design incorporated measures to mitigate these risks such as
structuring the disbursement profile to reflect possibly delays in counterpart funding, bolstering
training to improve operations and maintenance (O&M) efficiency, providing for redirecting
investments in case counties did not accept the agreed tariff approach, and providing for a "Knowledge,
Attitudes and Practices" (KAP) study to modify the health education and sanitation work where
necessary.

Lessons learned from the two previous IDA-financed rural water projects focused on (a) over-design


                                                  - 4 -

    of water treatment plants; (b) provision of water at the lowest possible cost; and (c) focus on
    operations, maintenance and solid accounting practices to ensure sustainability. All of these were
    incorporated during appraisal, but the over-design issue could have been examined in greater detail.
    Assumptions about rural demand for water supply were somewhat optimistic.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

    The project's outcome is satisfactory, as it substantially achieved its objectives. Despite slow progress
    in the first 18 months, the physical investments for the water supply systems were implemented on time
    and with good quality construction and supervision. Most of the sanitation, health and hygiene
    programs have resulted in better hygienic practices. More importantly, participating communities are
    making steady progress in improving the sustainability of assets through effective O&M of the water
    supply systems and improved accounting practices. The project provided a great deal of training, both
    classroom and on-the-job, in demand management and business development. Some local governments
    also developed strong incentives for the water treatment plants (WTPs) to become financially
    self-sustaining by informing their management that the counties would no longer continue to subsidize
    plant operations beyond the initial start-up period.

    Objective (a): Providing safe, conveniently located water to rural people in 40 counties and five
    provinces

    Achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory. As shown in Annex 1, the project financed the
    construction of piped water systems, deep-well hand pumps, and rainwater collectors to improve
    access to safe water. It also provided for construction of household and public/school latrines. The
    piped water systems usually provide water directly to the tap located at the beneficiary's home or
    courtyard, thereby substantially reducing the daily time spent fetching water.

    Project reach. The appraisal estimated the number of beneficiaries at 4.6 million in five provinces.
    During the MTR, it was noted that Jiangxi could not commit its entire allocation, so Gansu Province
    was added. Gansu's addition brought an estimated 323,400 beneficiaries, while Jiangxi's estimated
    beneficiaries were reduced somewhat, making the number of beneficiaries about 4.85 million at MTR.
    At completion, the total estimated number of beneficiaries is about 5.2 million. Therefore, the project
    exceeded its number of targeted beneficiaries by 600,000.

    Time savings. A comparison of the results on time savings for fetching water between the National
    Project Office's baseline survey and follow-up survey of 11,313 beneficiary households in five
    participating provinces in 2001, shows that before the project, each household spent 20 to 60 minutes
    per day fetching water, and that time increased in the dry season (lasting three to five months). After
    gaining access to piped water supply, households saved some 183 hours per year, assuming an average
    of 30 minutes spent per day fetching water before the project. These time savings are now spent more
    productively on activities such as children's education, cultivation, and improved house maintenance.

    Increased village prosperity. The increased productivity made possible from safe, convenient water
    supply has been linked to increases in overall village prosperity. For example, in 2002, the annual
    average per capita income in Linxia County was 1,162 RMB, while the income in the participating
    village of Yinwang in Linxia County was 1.36 times the county average. It would seem that after
    gaining access to clean, reliable water supply, the village is enjoying higher living standards.



                                                     - 5 -

Furthermore, these higher incomes bode well for maintaining the water treatment plants (WTP) built
under the project, servicing debt and recovering costs.

Water safety. Water quality testing is performed on a monthly basis at the WTPs by the local health
bureaus. The most common tests are pH value, turbidity, and residual chlorine, and in specific
locations, concentrations of fluoride and other parameters are also tested. These tests show that
national drinking water standards are being met.

Objective (b): Improving water-related health and sanitation practices

This objective was satisfactorily met. Although the project provinces did not systematically collect
data on this issue, the project appears to have reduced the impact of various water-borne diseases on
rural populations. Supervision missions visited 20 to 30 households to discuss and observe their
hygiene practices, and found households practicing the improved health practices promoted by the
project. The missions also interviewed medical practitioners from various project villages, who
confirmed that the incidence of water-borne diseases has been declining, in some cases dramatically.
The example below is taken from the Beiyuan Water Plant (Linxia County, Gansu Province) where the
number cases of water-borne disease declined substantially. Anecdotal evidence from other
participating counties shows similar results.


                         Cases, Hepatitis A    Cases, Stomach illness    Cases, Diarrhea


   800
   700
   600
   500

   400
   300
   200
   100
     0
      1992     1993     1994      1995     1996    1997     1998      1999    2000      2001   2002




Objective (c): Provide water at the lowest possible cost

The achievement of this objective is moderately satisfactory. The National Project Office (NPO) set
engineering design standards which aimed at capping the per household connection cost at RMB 200.
Most water plants had connection costs which came close to the NPO target, but because the household
demand for piped water supply did not always meet design expectations, the capacity utilization of
some water plants was lower than planned. In such cases, the cost of providing water was higher than
expected. On-site interviews with project beneficiaries, however, confirmed their willingness to pay
higher tariffs.

Objective (d): Ensure sustainability through good maintenance and accounting practices




                                                 - 6 -

   The achievement of this objective is satisfactory. In the early stages of the project, water supply
   companies generally did not have good record-keeping practices at commissioning. However, the
   record-keeping practices did improve gradually during implementation. Late in implementation, more
   and more WTPs had adequately trained personnel in charge of operations, and had strong support from
   their local governments. Nevertheless, the capacity of adequately trained personnel in charge of
   operations and support from their local governments vary greatly among provinces and counties.

   Achievement of Thematic Objectives.

   Poverty alleviation. This project was part of the program of targeted interventions for China, and it
   satisfactorily met its objective of alleviating poverty. The project was implemented in the targeted poor
   counties with little leakage to wealthier counties (see Additional Information Section 10). While the
   project's poverty alleviation impact would benefit from a rigorous impact analysis, household level
   interviews by IDA missions confirmed that the project had significant social, economic and health
   benefits. As noted above, beneficiaries have indicated their willingness and ability to pay higher water
   supply tariffs, which would indicate their increased appreciation for the benefits of clean water and
   appropriate sanitation.

   Gender. In most households, women and children are responsible for fetching water to meet daily
   needs. NRWSS has effectively reduced the burden of fetching water on them, allowing them to pursue
   other more economic or educational activities that contribute to improving their quality of life.

   Environment. This environment category "B" project was correctly identified as such. The adverse
    impacts during construction were minimal, and although the project's key performance indicators did
    not include environmental improvement indicators, there is anecdotal evidence of the project's net
    positive impact on the environment.

4.2 Outputs by components:
    Outputs by component are rated satisfactory. Details are provided below. (See Annex 1 also.)

   (a) Water supply. Approximately 1,610 rainwater collector systems and 1,394 piped water systems
   (single and multi-village) were constructed and are now providing safe water to some 5.2 million
   beneficiaries. The appraisal targets were 11,525 rainwater collector systems and 1,223 piped water
   systems. The number of rainwater collector systems was drastically reduced because beneficiaries
   opted for the higher level of service possible through piped water systems, where the project exceeded
   appraisal targets by 171 systems. Even though the number of rainwater collector systems built was
   much smaller than estimated, the number of beneficiaries was exceeded. Annex 7 presents a few
   "before and after" images.

   (b) Sanitation and health education. Targets for the construction of latrines were exceeded with
   15,439 latrines built, compared to 14,180 estimated at appraisal. Three different technologies were
   used to improve latrines: three-compartment, bio-gas, and pour-flush. Water-related health and
   sanitation practices also improved through targeted health education campaigns as evidenced through
   monitoring reports and field observations. Centrally designed communication materials were
   disseminated to the participating provinces, counties, townships and villages. As witnessed during
   supervision, project village families, especially women and children, have improved their hygiene
   practices by using sanitary latrines, increasing hand-washing at critical moments and by generally
   adopting the personal and household hygiene practices promoted by the project.


                                                     - 7 -

    In the health education component the provincial project offices (PPO) carried out 729 training
    courses, distributed booklets, posters and other information worth $916,000 to the beneficiary villages.
    In addition, thousands of television spots were broadcasted, and numerous sets of video and audio
    training materials were produced and distributed to the villages. The reduced incidence of water-borne
    diseases mentioned in para. 4.1 is testament to the success of this component.

    (c) Project management responsibilities were shared among the central government, project
    provinces, project counties, project township towns and water plants. During implementation, the
    NPO and PPOs together arranged 2,097 training courses with 95,142 participants from various
    provincial and county level offices and units. In addition, the PPOs organized six overseas study tours
    benefitting 49 people. The study tours lasted about two weeks, with their main objective being to gain
    first hand knowledge of how piped water supply systems were operated and managed in Australia,
    Canada, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and the United States.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, "Ideally, participating villages would have been chosen by
    evaluating net present value (NPV) generated by water investments, including any public health and
    social welfare externalities, and choosing the set of investments maximizing NPV across all villages".
    However, generating such information during appraisal would have been extremely difficult so such
    analysis was not prepared nor monitoring program implemented that would have allowed an ex-post
    evaluation of the program assumptions.

    Although an economic evaluation of the project was not possible, a great majority of the beneficiaries
    who connected to the improved water supply systems have unanimously expressed their appreciation
    for these systems, which save them time and labor, and have improved their health and well-being.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
    The institutional development impact of the project is considered substantial. At policy level the
    project demonstrated that its user-financed model works well and can work for government-financed
    programs as well. The project also significantly developed the capacity of governments at all levels to
    design and implement rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS) programs. In terms of sanitation and
    health education, the provincial and local authorities, in particular, strengthened their knowledge base
    and will use their project experience to more effectively implement government-funded health and
    hygiene education programs in the future. The project's full institutional development impact can be
    viewed from different levels as described below.

    National Level. The NPO, within the MoH, strengthened its capacity to provide technical guidance to
    the provinces as well as its capacity to monitor, coordinate and troubleshoot. NPO increased its
    full-time staff and its internal training program has enhanced its project management knowledge
    remarkably. The improved capacity of key personnel will serve the MoH well for both ongoing and
    future GOC-financed RWSS programs.

    Provincial. As a result of project implementation, the PPOs have improved coordination with the NPO
    and their counties. They have also improved their planning and budgeting capabilities through
    interactions with different government agencies at the provincial level such as finance and planning.



                                                      - 8 -

    Hands-on exposure to PPO staff has improved their capacity to monitor and facilitate at the county and
    township levels. The increased capacity at provincial level will serve the Bureaus of Health/Water
    Resources well for future RWSS programs.

    County. The project made two major improvements at county level: (a) a better understanding and
    appreciation among key administrative and party officials of the importance and benefits as well as the
    challenges of implementing RWSS programs; and (b) the county provincial office (CPO) staff have
    developed skills and techniques to manage, coordinate and supervise such programs.

    Township Town and WTPs. At this critical level, there has been a very significant institutional
    impact. Plant managers have learned, sometimes the hard way, to function as independent, financially
    self-sufficient entities and, in the process, have been forced to improve management, O&M, and
    accounting practices. The township governments understand that subsidizing plant operations is a
    losing game and are now insisting on accountability from plant management in terms of greater
    efficiency and full cost recovery from users. The result is that many townships and plants are
    experimenting with new management models, including involving the local private sector and
    community groups, to maximize returns on investments (see para 6.2).

    Village. Village leadership has also been strengthened. The consultative process adopted prior to
    village selection enabled communities to debate their existing water situation and decide whether to
    participate in the project and adopt its cost recovery policy. As members of management committees
    of most WTPs, village heads typically also had a say in the selection of plant staff. The result is that
    village heads have a better appreciation for the challenges and rewards of operating a water supply
    system.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

    Increase in plastic unit prices. The sudden, sharp increase in oil prices in 1999 resulted in a dramatic
    price increase of polyvinylchloride (PVC) pipes. The plastic unit price rose from RMB 7500/ton to
    10,500/ton within a few months. This price spike, exacerbated by a somewhat slow flow of information
    between certain PPOs and the NPO, resulted in a situation where the awarded supplier was not able to
    deliver the pipes procured. In ICB3, this resulted in the supplier being unable to deliver PVC pipes on
    time, causing delays in completing a number of WTPs, particularly between 1999-2001.

    The SARS outbreak during the Spring and Summer of 2003 resulted in implementation delays of three
    to five months. SARS mostly adversely affected construction in the northern provinces (Gansu, Inner
    Mongolia, Hebei) where weather conditions permit construction only in warm weather.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

    Slow disbursements. The NPO, PPOs and CPOs had competent staff and adequate operating
    budgets, and effectively coordinated and supported project implementation. However, PPOs and CPOs
    experienced difficulties in obtaining prompt disbursements from the IDA Credit, for which withdrawal
    applications were subject to clearance from the NPO and the Finance Bureau. Insufficient clarity
    regarding disbursement procedures and eligibility requirements caused significant disbursements
    delays.




                                                       - 9 -

    Counterpart funding contributions from various county governments could have been made in a
    more timely manner in some cases. Late and insufficient counterpart funding caused implementation
    delays.

    Reorganizations. Government reorganizations at provincial and county level took place across the
    country during implementation, and presented additional challenges to maintaining momentum and
    continuity. For quite some time insufficient and unstable staffing at PPO and CPO levels (due to
    government reforms) caused implementation bottlenecks. Lack of staff experienced in project planning
    and management at CPO level in particular also contributed to slow implementation in the early years.
    Later, mainly due to intensive supervision and training courses organized by the NPO, the situation
    improved, and PPOs and CPOs were able to operate more efficiently.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

    Performance of the implementing agencies. The CPOs' acceptance of innovative ideas and new
    knowledge to improve the effectiveness of O&M of the project's physical assets, and their continued
    efforts to ensure financial and institutional sustainability of the water schemes are commendable.

    However, three aspects could have received more attention. First, more emphasis could have been
    placed on full community participation. Not properly assessing demand for improved piped water
    supply services resulted in water plants which were over-designed and under-utilized. Second, water
    plant financial management and accounting need continual strengthening, which is vital
    to preparing water audits and monthly financial statements which cover O&M of the plants plus debt
    service repayments through the water tariff. Third, centralized procurement led to implementation
    delays. There is a need to procure goods more efficiently to avoid delays in delivering construction
    material and avoiding the procurement of unsuitable goods.

5.4 Costs and financing:

    The cost changes of the project were negligible, with a US$2 million decrease. The only change was a
    reallocation of funds among provinces, which resulted in an increase of funds for civil works and
    training, and a decrease of funds for goods.

    The Credit Closing Date was extended to December 31, 2005 mainly for the SARS prevention
    component. Even without this component, the closing date would have been extended at least six
    months to allow additional time to complete water supply systems delayed by SARS and by the PVC
    pipe delivery issue described above.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

    The overall sustainability rating is likely. There is a strong probability of maintaining the project's
   achievements, in particular with regard to the water supply investments. The project's sustainability in
   financial, institutional and technical terms is presented below.

   (a) Financial

    (i) The financial sustainability of the water plants constructed under the project is likely. The



                                                      - 10 -

provincial and county governments are committed to cost recovery through tariff collection. Tariffs are
periodically raised after their approval by the County Price Bureaus. Vetting tariffs by the County
Price Bureaus serves as a good regulatory system, protecting the rights of rural consumers. Water
supply plant financial and accounting systems have also shown noteworthy improvement.

(ii) The tariffs imposed by the vast majority of the water plants are regarded as generally affordable by
the users, and many households are willing and able to pay more, sometimes significantly more, than
current tariffs. Users generally pay in a timely manner and water bill collections are good. As seen in
paragraph 4.1 above, households in participating villages have seen increased incomes, which will
enhance their ability to pay for piped water in the future. In addition, demand for piped water is likely
to remain at least constant because villagers appreciate the value of piped water in maintaining good
health and hygiene.

(iii) The continued implementation of the project's cost recovery policies is likely due to the built-in
incentive mechanism at all levels in the project's user-finance model. This mechanism employs a
"cascade of accountability" whereby pressure from the central government on the provinces to service
the IDA Credit flows downwards to counties, townships and end-users in terms of cost recovery
through improved tariff collections. This flow of accountability will ensure timely repayment of the
Credit.

(b) Institutional

(i) Most of the national, provincial and county/townships project offices remain in place as part of
regular GOC-funded RWSS programs, so project management will continue uninterrupted. NPO is still
coordinating the ongoing Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSS4, Ln. 4485/Cr.
3233) currently scheduled to close on December 31, 2005.

(ii) Counties continue to hold primary responsibility for overseeing plant management and debt
servicing and are increasingly selecting plant managers and other staff on a competitive basis and
assessing their performance based on delivery of agreed outputs. Later supervision missions found
several cases where the plant manager had been selected on a competitive basis, and his performance
was being evaluated annually.

(iii) At the township/plant level, many plants are becoming independent entities, with the mandate of
becoming fully self-sufficient. Different management models are being tested to determine the optimal
institutional arrangements to carry out operations over an extended period of time. Some WTPs have
arranged competitive bidding for the operation of the plant and network, while others have rented out
their plants and networks to township or county water supply companies. Nevertheless, most project
WTPs are still utilizing the traditional local government-nominated plant manager principle, but the
trend is currently changing and more efficient and competitive management methods are likely to be
seen in the future for existing plants.

(c) Technical

(i) Two of the major criteria for construction of a water supply system were the quality and reliability
of an adequate water source, whose sustainability was studied and implemented with great care. Upon
project completion, it was found that none of the water sources was in any danger of depletion, so the
sustainability of water quality and supply is considered highly likely.




                                                 - 11 -

    (ii) Although some water schemes were somewhat over-designed, there were few complaints about the
    quality of construction, which was generally done to a high standard. In that sense, technical
    sustainability is highly likely in terms of the systems functioning effectively over the design period. A
    set of technical guidelines developed and updated during implementation have contributed remarkably
    to the operational sustainability of the WTPs.

    Overall sustainability is likely. Water tariffs are being regularly collected for the most part by water
    plant management which is also financing O&M. Accounting practices have generally improved as
    plant staff obtain classroom and on-the-job training. O&M practices are steadily improving and greater
    efficiencies are being made as pressure on plant managers increases to deliver water more efficiently.
    All of these issues have been monitored closely and lessons learned have been incorporated into the
    ongoing RWSS4.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

    In addition to the basic operational model within the county/township administrations, various new
    innovative approaches are being applied. At the township and plant levels, innovative variations of the
    standard management model are being experimented with. For example, one water plant had a
    semi-independent plant manager operating the water plant under the supervision of a committee headed
    by the Regional Village Representative. The plant operator has been hired on a competitive basis and
    his performance is being assessed on delivery of agreed outputs. At another water plant, the township
    leader has invited the private sector to collect bills in the assigned system catchment areas. Many
    township governments are also considering either leasing out O&M to a third party. It is suggested that
    the NPO develop frameworks for different management model options and assist provinces in testing
    them in different locations. For this purpose, IDA received a grant from the Public Private
    Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) to assist two provinces in developing new management
    models in RWSS and disseminate and pilot the appropriate models in one county under NRWS and
    two counties under RWSS4. The pilot study has just concluded, and the lessons and experiences were
    shared at a national workshop held March 14-16, 2005 with participation from high level officials from
    the central ministries of Finance, Health, and Water Resources, more than 50 representatives from 21
    provinces, representatives from China's Women's Federation, and international agencies including the
    Bank, the United Kingdom's Department for International Development (DfID), United Nations
    Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the Asian Development Bank. A provincial rural water and sanitation
    project is being considered for joint funding by the Bank and DfID. Although the project is just being
    identified, it would likely test implementation of the study's results.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


    IDA's performance during project identification, preparation assistance and appraisal is rated
    satisfactory.

    Project identification was consistent with the CAS and GOC priorities to alleviate poverty in rural
   villages through improved water supply, sanitation and health education. The project was well prepared
   in terms of technical specifications, particularly for the "three-in-one" (safe water, sanitation and health
   education) approach and capacity building components. The project preparation process was highly
    participatory and the borrower led the process. IDA's inputs in terms of staffing and skill mix were



                                                      - 12 -

    appropriate. Between identification and appraisal, four missions were fielded. The multi-disciplinary
    missions were composed of experts in financial and economic analysis, sociology, project operations,
    and water and sanitation.

    IDA's performance at appraisal was also satisfactory. IDA's team comprised seven members,
   covering the key skills required. The mission appraised all aspects of project design, government
   commitment at central, provincial and county levels (including counterpart funding) and the
   implementing agencies' capacity in terms of financial management, project risks and mitigation
   measures, the incentives for stakeholders to sustain the project, and safeguard issues (environment,
   land acquisition and resettlement). Special attention was also paid to poverty alleviation, gender and
   indigenous peoples aspects. As reported in the quality at entry section above, the risk assessment was
   reasonably on target. Lessons from two previous rural water projects were incorporated adequately
   into the design, in particular as it adopted a linked approach, combining water supply, sanitation and
   health education to maximize the health and productivity benefits gained from improved water supply.

    Regarding the project's key performance indicators, these were generally adequate although it was
    difficult to get reliable figures for the second water supply indicator of measuring financial
    sustainability by matching water plant revenues with expenditures after the second year of operation.
    The objective of providing water at the lowest possible cost, however, had no specific indicator. The
    key indicators for sanitation and hygiene objectives were more easily measurable and were monitored
    through both a baseline and follow-up surveys.


7.2 Supervision:


    IDA's performance in supervision is rated satisfactory. The supervision missions averaged four to five
    persons per mission and comprised a mix of international and Chinese national professionals, who were
    competent in the project's technical, institutional, and social aspects, and who provided assistance and
    quality advice to the project offices at all levels. The core supervision team was based in the field for
    the duration of the project. Team continuity was high and excellent team spirit was maintained with
    borrower counterparts at all levels. The supervision missions helped to motivate staff from the
    different project offices and to build institutional capacity at various levels. The supervision missions
    were effective in accelerating implementation which had experienced very slow progress early in
    implementation.

    At different stages, the team provided high quality technical, project management and business
    development advice which was well received by the project offices and plant management. The team
    demonstrated water auditing at newly operated plants, and addressed operational and maintenance
    problems on the spot. The team's institutional/management specialist illustrated the usefulness and
    importance of friendly and simple bookkeeping and accounting statements for improving operation, and
    showed how to convert water losses or unaccounted-for water to monetary value loss; it helped develop
    more commercially focused operations for water plant management.

    The MTR mission, originally scheduled for March 2000, was held a year later in April 2001 due to
    implementation start-up delays. The mission was composed of six members with a wide range of
    specialties and made extensive field visits covering the provinces of Hebei, Yunnan, Jiangxi and Hubei
    (see Annex 4 for mission specialties and timing). The MTR was useful in that it gave IDA and the
    participating provinces the opportunity to examine commitments by province. Jiangxi and Hebei both



                                                      - 13 -

    requested reduced obligations under the project, so NPO proposed adding Gansu to enable the project
    to reach its targets. Through these substitutions, the project was able to increase the number of
    beneficiaries substantially. The MTR investigated the status of meeting some key performance
    indicators, but NPO weakness in progress reporting at the time prevented the mission from presenting a
    systematic review of the attainment of key performance indicators in the MTR report.

    Safeguard Supervision. Resettlement issues were identified and discussed regularly. IDA's team
    resettlement specialist visited at least two sample counties in all six project provinces while
    resettlement was ongoing. In total 1,371 mu of land were expropriated and 873 farmers were affected
    by a loss of cultivatable land. No one was relocated under the project. Since the land taken for a
    single water scheme ranged from 1.5 mu to 15 mu, adverse impacts on farmers were minor and were
    mitigated by redistributing farmland or conducting non-agricultural activities from which their
    livelihood and income were restored and improved in the shortest possible time. No Resettlement
    Actions Plan (RAP) was necessary since no county ever expected to have more than 150 people
    affected in a given year. Hence a simple inventory table showing the size of the land taken and the cost
    of land acquisition and resettlement in the Annual Work Plan and the Project Progress Report was
    prepared. Adequate efforts were made to improve resettlement reporting systems for hundreds of water
    schemes in the remote mountainous areas in the 45 counties in the six project provinces.

    Women were the main project beneficiaries. During supervision, a greater proportion of women was
    interviewed in the field for all components. No particular issues or risks were discovered. A specific
    study was done on the Hui people in Gansu Province, and ethnic minorities were interviewed in
    Yunnan and Inner Mongolia. IDA found no differences in resettlement implementation among the
    various ethnic groups.

    QAG Review. The QAG reviewed project implementation in 1999 and found supervision satisfactory.
    QAG complimented the supervision team on its staff continuity and "very judicious skill mix". The
    QAG reported noted that task team leadership and other key staff were in the Beijing office for the
    duration of the project, allowing optimal mission frequency and duration, and easy contact between
    missions. Aides-memoire and Project Status Reports were judged clear and concise. Supervision
    frequency and reporting were rated highly satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    Overall, IDA's performance is rated satisfactory due to good quality and innovative preparation and
    effective supervision.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    The borrower's performance in preparation is rated satisfactory. The borrower identified appropriate
    beneficiary counties and played a key role in developing sustainable village-level project financing
    mechanisms. The project design was based on high levels of beneficiary financial commitment. All
    project counties prepared feasibility studies and preliminary project designs appropriate to their
    conditions. The NPO and PPOs took the lead in reviewing and approving the works. In a few cases,
    the borrower failed to recognize that beneficiaries would continue using their existing water sources for
    bathing, cleaning, and water animals, which resulted in under-utilization of the newly constructed water
    systems. Thus, demand management and full community participation in the preparation stage of
    the sub-projects are very important to ensuring project sustainability.

7.5 Government implementation performance:



                                                     - 14 -

    The central government's performance in implementation was satisfactory. Government sector
    policies and the project's development objective were fully aligned, and the project's importance was
    recognized by all levels of government. The NPO lacked suitable capacity early in implementation, but
    it improved following heavy emphasis on project management and better communications with IDA, as
    well as continuous in-house training. NPO's performance in project management improved
    significantly during the last year of implementation. The NPO was responsible for (a) organization,
    coordination, training, supervision, monitoring and control of the overall project implementation; (b)
    baseline surveys; (c) ICB procurement of project goods and materials; (d) appraisal and approval of
    designs of water supply works with an investment over US$350,000 and examination and acceptance
    of their quality and completion; and (e) consolidation of project reports, annual work plan, accounting
    and auditing reports. It performed these roles satisfactorily and continues to function well under the
    ongoing RWSS4.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    In general, the performance of the implementing agencies was satisfactory.

    At the provincial level, the respective Provincial Project Offices (PPOs), which work under the
    guidance of provincial-level Leading Groups, were established for project implementation. The PPOs
    were drawn from provincial bureaus, in particular the public health bureau, water resources bureaus,
    NPHCC offices, etc. The PPOs were responsible for (a) organization, coordination, training,
    supervision, monitoring and control of the project implementation of their own provinces; (b) appraisal
    and approval of designs of all water supply works with an investment above US$60,000 but not
    exceeding US$350,000, and examination and acceptance of their quality and completion; (c)
    management of civil works procurement of water supply works with an investment budget exceeding
    US$100,000; and (d) consolidation of project reports, annual work plan, accounting and auditing
    reports. They fulfilled their roles satisfactorily, with definite improvements visible as the project
    progressed.

    At the county level, respective County Project Offices (CPOs) which work under the guidance of
    county-level Leading Groups were established for project implementation. The CPOs were drawn from
    county bureaus, in particular the public health bureau, water resources bureaus, patriotic health
    campaign committee offices, etc. The CPOs are responsible for (a) organization, coordination,
    training, supervision, monitoring and control of the project implementation of their own counties; (b)
    appraisal and approval of the designs of all water supply works with an investment less than
    US$60,000, and examination and acceptance of their quality and completion; (c) management of civil
    works procurement of water supply works with an investment budget less than US$100,000; (d)
    consolidation of project reports, annual work plan, accounting and auditing reports; and (e) support of
    operation and management of water supply systems.

    During the final stages of implementation, the project offices at all levels were adequately staffed and
    working effectively. The staffing, management and institutional capacity of the project offices at PPO
    and CPO levels were progressively strengthened through the support and technical assistance from
    NPO, and through interactions with supervision missions. Several PPOs and CPOs displayed an
    eagerness to learn and accepted new concepts and knowledge related to the design, operation, and
    management of water schemes. Their enthusiasm for gaining knowledge and translating it into action
    related to the sustainability of the water schemes increased noticeably through the end of the project.
    This was also reflected by some township towns, who already have established autonomous,
    self-sufficient water companies to operate and manage water schemes, as well as having become
    flexible in water tariff collection through private participation. All provinces performed satisfactorily


                                                      - 15 -

    in water treatment, latrine construction and health and education, except Hubei and Inner Mongolia
    which displayed highly satisfactory performances in the health education component.

    In terms of the quality of monitoring of project management, training, environmental protection and
    resettlement, Bank supervision missions reviewed the performance of the NPO and provincial agencies
    and this was generally found to be satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    The Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory for the high level of commitment and high
    quality of works at all levels, during preparation and most of the implementation period on physical
    investment of water treatment plants, latrines and health education components.

8. Lessons Learned

The major lessons learned from the implementation of this project follow.

First, water plant management practices need to be streamlined, with an emphasis on strengthening
financial management and accounting practices. Standard accounting formats should be used in all WTPs
with on-the-job training imparted to plant staff. Attempts to increase efficiency could also involve
employing appropriate private sector management models.

Second, demand management needs strengthening. More emphasis needs to be put on: (a) accurately
forecasting demand for piped water supply to optimize plant size and production capacity; and (b)
stimulating demand for safe water by conducting effective hygiene promotion campaigns as well as raising
revenues to finance the cost of production.

Third, procurement should be decentralized. Centralized procurement led to delays in project
implementation. Decentralizing procurement responsibility to the provinces or even to the counties would
speed up implementation and also make the local levels more accountable for timely implementation.

In addition, the following issues are worth noting for future rural water supply and sanitation projects:

    (a) Institutional:
    - Different contexts need different management models; the present "one size fits all" approach should
    be modified to incorporate more flexibility including involvement of the local private sector.
    - The users, who are significantly contributing to both capital and operations/maintenance costs, need
    to be consulted more actively at the planning and design stage to increase future sustainability.
    - Ownership of the WTP assets is still unclear and needs to be clarified to render management more
    effective.

    (b) Financial:
    - Although the principle of significant user-financing has worked effectively, in some of the poorest
    villages, explicit subsidies for the very poor should be considered.
    - Tariff-setting is a cumbersome process and raising tariffs is particularly difficult. The whole County
    Price Bureau tariff approval process needs to be streamlined.

    (c) Technical:
    - The national water supply design norms need to be made more flexible to suit local conditions.
    - Water plant technical specifications need to be made more cost effective.



                                                     - 16 -

    (d) Sanitation and hygiene education:
    - Better coordination with ongoing national/provincial programs promoting sanitation and health would
    help reinforce project messages province-wide rather than in isolated target counties.
    - State of the art hygiene promotion programs using social marketing techniques would strengthen the
    sanitation and hygiene components and more effectively trigger behavior change.

    (e) Capacity building:
    -Training and capacity building should be made more user-oriented and decentralized for provincial
    and county staff. This could be tailored to suit local conditions and would be more cost effective.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

      We have read through the ICR report prepared by the Bank for the National Rural Water Supply
project, and have the following comments:
      Generally speaking, the assessment of the project in the ICR precisely reflects the actual situation of
the project and we appreciate very much the efforts made by all of the ICR mission members. The project
has achieved its proposed objectives and brought satisfactory social, economic and health benefits to the
rural residents at all levels- national, regional and local communities, and was in close accordance with the
Chinese government's strategy of poverty alleviation.
      The integration of water supply, health education and sanitation in the project design stage has proved
feasible, and better experimented the advantages of "3 in 1" design concept, which enables the rural
residents to changes their health conceptions and behavior while enjoying the access to safe drinking water,
and has created a sound condition for the development of rural China.
      The project management throughout the project implementation has been satisfactory. Multi-layer
project training, supervision and management measures taken by the World Bank and Chinese counterparts
have greatly facilitated the sustainability of the project.
The excellent cooperation between the World Bank and the project executing agencies and staff is
outstanding and critical to the successful implementation of the project. Meanwhile, the cooperation has
also laid a solid foundation for the long-term collaboration between the Chinese Government and the Bank.
      In terms of some of the expressions in the report, we suggest they should be further modified so that
the report will be more appropriate:
      Firstly, in section 3.1, "over 4 million rural inhabitants still" should be changed into " over 3 million
rural inhabitants still". In the same section, we think this project has been implementing in the health
departments and does not have very much to do with Ministry of Water Resources, thus we would like to
convert "Ministry of Water Resources" into "the Government of China" as well.
      Secondly, with regards to the design of water plant capacity, we cannot agree on the word
"overdesign". Some of the water plants really have not reached their design capacity at present, yet the
designed terms for these water plants are 15 years, we should assess the design capacity based on the later
water supply of design terms, not the current water services. We suggest that "overdesign" should be
changed into " some of the water plants are not fully operating in line with their design capacities".

(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.




                                                       - 17 -

10. Additional Information

At appraisal, there were five participating provinces, with 40 participating counties or towns. At project
completion, there were six participating provinces with 46 participating counties or towns. Like the
original counties and towns, those added at the MTR were officially designated poor counties and towns.
This allowed the project to maintain its poverty focus and prevented "leakage" of project benefits to
wealthier counties.


Province/County/City               Listed in SAR       Participated in actual
                                                       implementation
Yunnan Province
Ludian County                              X                         X
Yao'an County                              X                         X
Yuanyang County                            X                         X
Shiping County                             X                         X
Huize County                               X                         X
Yuanjiang County                           X                         X
Luliang                                                              X

Hebei Province
Chicheng County                            X                         X
Luanping County                            X                         X
Pingshan County                            X                         X
Yanshan County                             X                         X
Lingshou County                            X                         X
Qinglong Manchurian                        X                         X
Autonomous County
Yixian County                                                        X
Wuqiang County                             X                         X
Fengning Manchurian                        X                         X
Autonomous County
Shuangqiao                                                           X
Weichang                                                             X

Hubei Province
Qichun County                              X                         X
Tuanfeng County                            X                         X
Jianli County                              X                         X
Hanchuan City                              X                         X
Zhijiang City                              X                         X
Jiayu County                               X                         X
Gucheng County                             X                         X
Puqi City                                  X
Xiangyang County                           X                         X
Yichang County                             X                         X
Chibi                                                                X




                                                    - 18 -

Province/County/City            Listed in SAR      Participated in actual
                                                   implementation
Nei Mongol Autonomous
Region
Wuchuan County                          X                        X
Helingerl County                        X                        X
Guyang County                           X                        X
Kulun Banner                            X                        X
Kalarqin Banner                         X                        X
Wulateqian Banner                       X                        X

Jiangxi Province
Shangyou County                         X                        X
Ningdu County                           X                        X
Xingguo County                          X                        X
Xiajiang County                         X                        X
Yongfeng County                         X                        X
Shangrao County                         X
Hengfeng County                         X                        X
Qianshan County                         X                        X
Nanchang County                         X

Gansu Province
Pingchuan County                                                 X
Jingyuan County                                                  X
Beidao County                                                    X
Hezheng County                                                   X
Linxia County                                                    X

Appraisal source: Annex 1, List of Provinces and Counties




                                                 - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

PROJECT OUTPUTS, projected at appraisal

 Province (# of    Investment        No. Piped     Deep well hand        Rainwater
    counties)    amount (RMB Water Systems               pump            collectors         Latrines
                       M)
 Gansu                 n.a.              n.a.             n.a.               n.a.              n.a.
 Hebei (9)             267           not defined      not defined        not defined         4,373
 Hubei (10)            284              171                                  400             3,081
 Nei Mongol            167              743                80                                3,348
 (6)
 Jiangxi (9)           207              161               n.a.                               2,026
 Yunnan(6)             183              148                 5               9,965            1,352
 Total (40)           1,108            1,223               85              11,525           14,180

PROJECT OUTPUTS, actuals at completion

 Province (# of    Investment        No. Piped     Deep well hand        Rainwater
    counties)    amount (RMB Water Systems               pump             collectors     Total latrines
                       M)
 Gansu (5)             53                11               n.a.               n.a.             988
 Hebei (11)            263              392               n.a.               n.a.            5058
 Hubei (10)            293              147               n.a.               400             3550
 Nei Mongol            165              602               n.a.               n.a.            3348
 (6)
 Jiangxi (7)           158               98               n.a.               n.a.            1304
 Yunnan (7)            147              144               n.a.              1,210            1191
 Total (46)           1,079            1,394              n.a.              1,610           15,439


BENEFICIARIES

Appraisal targets at completion (* % of rural population in the project counties having access to
improved water supply)

                  No. of counties to be    No. of beneficiaries   No. of beneficiary     % access to safe water
 Province                served                 ('000)                  villages           at end of project*
 Gansu                   n.a.                    n.a.                     n.a                     n.a.
 Hebei                     9                      963                     533                      66
 Hubei                    10                   1,200                      721                     47
 Nei Mongol                6                      640                    1,034                     66
 Jiangxi                   9                   1,100                      441                      60
 Yunnan                    6                     637                      324                      63
 Total                     40                  4,540                     3,053



                                                - 20 -

Actuals, End of project

                  No. of counties No. of beneficiaries No. of beneficiary % access to safe water
     Province          served           ('000)             villages         at end of project*
   Gansu                 5              386.6                 156                  79
   Hebei                11             1,136.5                594                  96
   Hubei                10              1,404                 666                  92
   Nei Mongol            6              641.5                 518                  89
   Jiangxi               7              820.2                 246                  75
   Yunnan                8              811.8                 229                  84
   Total                47             5,200.6              2,409




                                             - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
1-A Works - Hebei                                            4.77            6.26             132
1-B Works - Hubei                                            7.76            7.39              96
1-C Works - Jiangxi                                          4.95            5.34             108
1-D Works - Inner Mongolia                                   5.04            4.65              93
1-F Works - Yunnan                                           4.63            4.47              97
1-F Works - Gansu                                            1.85            2.17             118
2 Goods                                                     33.80          35.10            107.2
3 Consultancy services                                       0.40            1.90             473
4 Training/Study Tours                                       2.70            1.28              66
5 Incremental costs                                          0.30            0.15              50
6 Unallocated                                                3.80            0.00
7 SARS - Consultancy and training                                            0.80

Total Baseline Cost                                         70.00          69.51
                        Total Project Costs                 70.00          69.51
                  Total Financing Required                  70.00          69.51


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             17.40        60.00         0.00         77.40
                                  (0.00)           (7.00)      (24.00)        (0.00)      (31.00)
2. Goods                          44.00             0.00         0.50         0.00         44.50
                                 (35.20)           (0.00)      (0.40)         (0.00)      (35.60)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         4.20         0.00          4.20
Consultancy                       (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.10)         (0.00)       (3.10)
4. Training/Study Tours           0.00              0.00         0.30         0.00          0.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.30)         (0.00)       (0.30)
5. Incremental costs              0.00              0.00         0.00         2.70          2.70
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Unallocated                    0.00              0.00         0.00         5.00          5.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
    Total                         44.00            17.40        65.00         7.70         134.10
                                 (35.20)           (7.00)      (27.80)        (0.00)      (70.00)




                                                - 22 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                                  25.20             61.73             0.00             86.93
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (30.28)            (0.00)           (30.28)
    2. Goods                                35.10              0.00              5.50             0.00             40.60
                                           (35.10)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (35.10)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              1.89             0.00              1.89
    Consultancy                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.89)            (0.00)           (1.89)
    4. Training/Study Tours                 0.00               0.00              2.82             0.00              2.82
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.78)            (0.00)           (1.78)
    5. Incremental costs                    0.00               0.00              0.00             0.15              0.15
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.15)           (0.15)
    6. Unallocated                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               35.10             25.20             71.94             0.15             132.39
                                           (35.10)            (0.00)           (33.95)            (0.15)           (69.20)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1- Works                       29.00        23.40        31.62       30.28         21.45     35.20       104.4     91.7    111.3
2 - Goods                      33.80         3.38         3.38       35.10         5.50       0.00       103.8    162.7      0.0
3 - Consultancy Services        0.40         0.00         0.00        1.89         0.00       0.00       472.5     0.0       0.0
4 - Training/Study Tours        2.70         1.08         0.00        1.78         0.00       0.00       65.9      0.0       0.0
5 - Incremental costs           0.30         0.00         0.00        0.15         0.00       0.00       50.0      0.0       0.0
6 - Unallocated                 3.80         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
7 - SARS                        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.80         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0




                                                           - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


  The majority of project benefits occurred within the project area, with some 5.2 million beneficiaries.
  The project areas are among the poorest in China, and the project raised average per capita
  net-incomes significantly for about one million rural households directly benefiting from the project.
  As no detailed study on this was undertaken, no exact figures are available. The project's major
  benefits occurred in the form of (a) reduced medical expenses for water-related deaths; (b) reduced time
  needed to fetch water; and (c) increased incomes made possible by having more time for productive
  work due to (a) and (b).

  Due to the lack of economic and financial information on actual benefits achieved, no economic cost or
  benefits analysis was done. Nevertheless, some estimates can be made about reduced medical expenses.
  In one of the project villages in Gansu province, the number of water-borne diseases declined by about
  70% after introducing safe, piped water supply. This would annually represent about RMB 20 to 40 in
  saved medical costs per household, or about RMB 20 to 40 million annual savings at the national level.
  Time savings from not having to fetch water can be estimated at on average one hour per household per
  day. This would equal about 360 million man-hours annually, equal to 40 million man-days of labor
  work at the national level. Even at a daily wage of RMB 5, this would amount to about RMB 200
  million of increased labor income.




                                                 - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Preparation,              6    SR. ENVIRONMENTAL
              October 1996                   ECONOMIST (1); PR.
                                             OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER/ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST(1);
                                             WATER & SANITATION
                                             EXPERT (1)
              Preparation,              5    SR. ENVIRONMENTAL
              December 1996                  ECONOMIST (1); PR.
                                             OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER/ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST(1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              Pre-appraisal,            7    SR. ENVIRONMENTAL
              Jan/Feb 1997                   ECONOMIST (1); PR.
                                             OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER/ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGISTS (2);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST(1);
                                             PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                                             ADMINISTRATIVE
                                             ASSISTANT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April 1997                7    SR. ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1); PR.
                                             OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER/ECONOMIST
                                             (1); SOCIOLOGISTS (2);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST(1);
                                             PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
              May 1997                       Negotiations were conducted via
                                             exchange of telexes, based on
                                             technical discussions held after
                                             conclusion of appraisal.

 Supervision
              06/17/1999                6    ENGINEER (1);                         S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); URBAN PLANNER (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1); PROJECT
                                             ANALYST (1)
                                        6    FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL                 S


                                              - 25 -

      01/27/2000                                                 S
                           (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                           SECTOR
                           COORDINATOR/ENGINEER
                           (1); PROCUREMENT
                           SPECIALIST (1);
                           DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                           (1); ENGINEER (1)
      09/27/2000         4 ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL          S    S
                           ANALYST, TTL (1);
                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                           (1); URB ENVMT SPECIALIST
                           (1)
      MTR - 04/8/2001    6 FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL            S    S
                           (1);
                           DISBURSEMENTS/FINANCIA
                           L MANAGEMENT (1);
                           RESETTLEMENT (1);
                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                           ENGINEER (1); HEALTH
                           EDUCATION (1)
      10/17/2001         3 HEALTH EDUCATION &               S    S
                           SANITATION (1); ENGINEER
                           (1); PROJECT MANAGEMENT
                           (1)
      04/05/2002         7 TTL, SANITARY ENGINEER           S    S
                           (1); TECHNICAL ASPECTS (1);
                           PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1);
                           HEALTH EDUCATION (1);
                           DISBURSEMENT (1);
                           RESETTLEMENT (1); MGMT
                           & INT'L EXPERIENCE (1)
      09/06/2002         2 SANITARY ENGINEER (1);           S    S
                           PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1)
      09/19/2003         3 SANITARY ENGINEER (1);           S    S
                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                           (1); RESETTLEMENT
                           SPECIALIST (1)

ICR
                           No separate ICR mission          S    S
                           was conducted, but data
                           collection was done during
                           the September 2003
                           mission. Additional visits
                           and assessments were done
                           as part of the supervision of
                           the ongoing RWSS4.




                           - 26 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    69.6                         253.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         16.8                           41.3
  Supervision                                  122.4                         422.5
  ICR                                             7.0                          39.0
  Total                                        215.8                         756.3
Regional direct to full costs mark-up is 25% for fiscal years prior to FY00.




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aides-memoire of supervision missions
Resettlement Assessment Paper
Economic Analysis Working Paper
Borrower's ICR
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation in China: Scaling up Services for the Poor (February 2004)

Pictures:




       Old well in Inner-Mongolia             New piped water supply




                                                - 30 -

Health education during a mission to Jiangxi Province




                           New WTP in Jiangxi




                                                 - 31 -

- 32 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 28662R
                              70                           80                     90                            100                            110                            120                             130


50
                                                                                                           R U S S I A N    F E D E R AT I O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50




                          KAZAKHSTAN



                                                                                                                                                                                                               HEILONGJIANG


 UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                           Harbin
                                                                                                                M O N G O L I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                             JILIN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Changchun
               KYRGYZ                                                     Urumqi
                                                                                                                                                                      NEI MONGOL
40           REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Shenyang
                                                               XINJIANG
TAJIKIST                                                                                                                                                                                           LIAONING              DEM.             40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S e a o f
       AN                                                                                                                                                                                                             PEOPLE'S      J a p a n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REP. OF
                                               80                                        GANSU                                                        Hohhot                       BEIJING                             KOREA

                                                                                                                                                                                       TIANJIN
        This map was produced                                                                                                                                              HEBEI              Bo Hai
        by the Map Design Unit                                                                                                                                                                                                REP. OF
        of The World Bank. The                                                                                                Yinchuan                            Taiyuan   Shijiazhuang
        b o u n d a r i e s , c o l o r s ,                                                                                                                                                                                   KOREA
        denominations and any
        other information shown                                                                                                                           Huang                           Jinan
        on this map do not                                                                                                                                       SHANXI
        imply, on the           part of                                                                                                                                             SHANDONG
        The World Bank Group,                                                                                    Xining               NINGXIA                                                               Y e l l o w
        any judgment on the legal                                                       QINGHAI                             Lanzhou                            Ho                      Grand
        status   of any territory,                                                                                                                                                                            S e a
        or any endorsement
        or acceptance of such                                                                                                                                                                    Canal
        boundaries.                                                                                                                               Xi'an                  Zhengzhou
                                                                                                                                                                      HENAN
                                                                                                                                              SHAANXI                                         JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                      ANHUI           Nanjing

                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHANGHAI                    30
                                                                    XIZANG                                                                                                              Hefei
                                                 30                                                                 SICHUAN                                                                                                  E a s t
                                                                                                                                                    Jiang           HUBEI Wuhan
                                                                                                                         Chengdu                                                                        Hangzhou             C h i n a

                                                                                                                                               Chang                                              ZHEJIANG
                                                 NEPAL                                                                                                                                                                        S e a
                                                                       90                                                    Chongqing      CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                 Nanchang
                                                                                                                                                                 Changsha     JIANGXI
                                                      CHINA                                                                                                      HUNAN
                                                                                                                                     GUIZHOU
      NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                     FUJIAN     Fuzhou
                                                                                             ANMAR                                            Guiyang
                                                                                                  MY

                                                                                                                      Kunming
                                                                                                                                                                                                           TAIWAN
                                                                                                                 YUNNAN                                                 GUANGDONG
                                                     PROJECT COUNTIES                                                                          GUANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                             Guangzhou
                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                Nanning
                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                               HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                            MACAO                                                         20
                                                     COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                    ANMAR                     VIETNAM                                                        0    100   200      300    400   500 MILES
                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                 MY
                                                                                                                                                                                             0      200     400        600    800 KILOMETERS
                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                20                 LAO PEOPLE'S                                              S o u t h C h i n a
                                                                                                                   DEM. REP.                          HAINAN                      S e a
                                                                                                    THAILAND
                                                                                                            100                                                110                                           120  PHILIPPINES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DECEMBER 2004

