Report No. PIC4328
Project Name                     China-National Rural Water Supply Project (@+)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                       CNPE3637
Borrower                         Government of China
Implementing Agency             National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee
Mr. Shi Malin, Director
China Water Supply and Sanitation
National Project Office
17 Government Street
Changping County
People's Republic of China
Tel: (86-10) 6874-4468
Fax: (86-10) 6974-4437
Date PID Prepared                April 1, 1997
Date Initial PID Prepared        September 13, 1996
Project Appraisal Date          April 14, 1997
Project Board Date               June 17, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      Rural Chinese have made good progress in developing safe and
accessible water supplies, with less than a quarter having such
supplies in 1985 but some 57 percent having them by 1993. Of the
nearly 918 million rural people in 1995, slightly over 400 million
were served by piped water and about 205 million relied on hand
pumps, with the remainder using a variety of sources, including
springs, rivers, ponds, and rain catchment tanks. Although
basically all of the piped water supplies have been deemed safe,
hand pumps and other sources may or may not be. In some parts of
China, water can be easily found, but its high fluoride or alkali
content damages the health of those who must drink it. In other
areas, including much of the karst region of southwest China,
highly seasonal rainfall yields water of adequate quality and
reasonable convenience for about four months of the year, but
during the dry season ponds dry up or become contaminated and
people must walk long distances to fetch clean water. In China, as
in other countries, the lack of safe water correlates highly with poverty.
2.      As the coverage increase suggests, sector investments have
been large in recent years. In response to the high government
policy priority given to rural water, and high beneficiary
willingness to pay, over the period 1991-1995, an estimated RMB
15.2 billion ($1.8 billion) was invested in the sector, or RMB 16
per capita. Of that, approximately 24 percent derived from central
and local government budget transfers, 26 percent from rural
collectives, 43 percent from rural households, and 7 percent from



other sources. As the figures make clear, rural people rely mainly
on their own efforts to finance these investments.
3.      Good health and sanitation practices complement safe water
supplies in protecting rural health. The Epidemic Prevention
Stations (EPSs) monitor drinking water quality and provide other
preventative health services to rural communities. For decades, the
Chinese National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee (NPHCC) has
run health education and action campaigns targeting a broad array
of rural health problems. Early successes included reduction of
schistosomiasis and insect-borne diseases. The NPHCC has also
worked to expand the use of latrines, particularly composting
latrines that promise high rates of pathogen destruction. Latrine
use rates are high, at over 90 percent, reflecting an ancient
concern with capturing fecal material to fertilize crops. However,
only 10 percent of rural households have composting latrines and
their coverage has grown very slowly. Both the relatively high cost
of such latrines and the lack of a perceived health link have
slowed adoption.
4.      The central government sets goals for and measures the
outcome of rural water, health, and sanitation programs. In
addition to the EPSs and NPHCC under the Ministry of Public Health,
the Ministry of Water Resources plays a role in allocating surface
water for various uses, and the Ministry of Geology in allocating
groundwater. But as the rural water investment figures suggest,
local governments and rural people themselves play the strongest
role in designing, funding, and implementing water supply and
sanitation programs. The strength of organizations such as NPHCC
has waned with the devolution of the rural economy from collective
to household production, but the historical legacy of self-reliance
remains.
5.      Since the early 1980s, IDA has worked with China to expand
rural access to safe water. The US $80 million equivalent Credit
for the Rural Water Supply Project (Cr. 1578) helped some 7.2
million rural inhabitants of five provinces supply themselves with
safe and convenient water. The subsequent $110 million equivalent
Credit for the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSS, Cr.
2336), expanded this effort to another six provinces and introduced
improved sanitation practices and health/hygiene education. The
latter project has to date supplied safe drinking water to 4.2
million rural residents, and expects to have supplied 9 million by
project completion in June 1998. Both projects have been notably
successful in covering the full cost of water facility investment
and operations and maintenance costs through water tariffs. And
beneficiaries have reported significant health and productivity
improvements, an outcome confirmed in the review of the Rural Water
Supply Project.
Objectives
6.      The project's main objective would be to improve the well-
being of poor rural people in 40 counties by providing access to
safe, conveniently located drinking water and by improving related
- 2 -



water use and sanitation practices. A supporting objective would be
to provide the water at the lowest possible cost and to ensure its
sustainability through good maintenance and accounting practices.
As in earlier projects, water tariffs will be set to fully cover
project costs. More concretely, the project would increase
government's capacity to meet its goal of providing safe water to
all through: (a) direct financial support to safe water supply
efforts; (b) training programs to improve the operational and
financial management of the water supply operations; (c) increased
beneficiary participation in the design and selection of water
supply alternatives; and (d) better focused water related village
sanitation and health education programs.
Description
7.      An estimated 4.6 million inhabitants of 40 project counties
in Yunnan, Jiangxi, Hubei and Hebei Provinces and Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region would benefit from the project. The proposed
project provinces and autonomous region (hereafter referred to as
the provinces) all contain a large number of poor counties with
substantial unmet safe water needs. Participating counties were
selected according to their: (a) rural poverty, in which the
poorest counties were given first rights of participation; (b) the
percentage of rural people lacking access to improved water
supplies; (c) the number of people exposed to unsafe water, as
evidenced by fluorine or alkali content, or by the incidence of
gastro-intestinal illness; (d) existing provincial plans targeting
priority areas of rural water improvement; (e) demonstrated ability
to provide the needed counterpart funds; and (f) willingness to
form and staff a county project office to agreed standards. All
participating counties, with one exception, are among the
nationally or provincially designated poor counties, although not
necessarily the poorest among them. The exception has very high
levels of arsenic and fluorine in shallow groundwater, and incomes
below provincial averages.
8.      Within each county, the proposed project would support
national and local efforts to expand safe water coverage and
strengthen related village sanitation and health education through
the following components:
Water Supply. Provision of safe water, sustainably financed, to
poor communities currently lacking such supplies. Project design
would maximize community participation in the selection of service
alternatives. Users would be expected to pay the full cost of the water.
Sanitation and Health Education. Assistance to on-going village
health education efforts. This component would work with the
primary education, Women's Federation, and public health systems in
their efforts to improve water use and sanitation practices in the
villages. It would support demonstration programs to increase use
of composting latrines; the preparation of health education
messages aimed at expanding the adoption of improved sanitation and
hygiene practices among the target beneficiaries, primarily
housewives, school-aged children and decisionmakers in households;
- 3-



and training of health education specialists in delivery of those messages.
Project Management. Support for water system operator and
accountant training to ensure low cost operation and project
sustainability. Project staff training would encompass project
management, procurement, financial management, hydrogeological,
construction management, inventory control, water technology and
monitoring, sanitation and health education training. Research on
effective strategies to expand adoption of improved sanitation and
convey health messages.
Project Cost and Financing
9.      Total project cost is estimated to be about $134 million. The
Bank Credit would cover an estimated $70 million of that cost, with
the remainder financed by participating provincial, prefectural,
and county governments, and benefiting villagers.
Implementation
10.     The project will be managed by the national project office
for RWSS. Yunnan Province and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region are
in RWSS and their provincial project offices (PPOs) will likewise
administer the new loan. The other provinces have established
project offices as have all counties. Existing health education
agencies will play a role in the project offices, based on their
participation in the project.
11.     County project offices (CPOs) under RWSS have, in general,
been adequately staffed. However, under the new project, CPOs will
meet some staffing needs more creatively than in the past. For
example, construction supervision has been a weak point in RWSS (as
it is more generally in China). Under the new project, CPOs will
contract with independent county construction quality supervision
stations for this service. Overall, a more aggressive supervisory
and training role will be expected compared to the past.
Project Benefits, Sustainability and Risks
12.     Improved water supply has been shown to have a broad array of
benefits: freeing labor time, reducing water-borne diseases, and
providing an input to production. OED review of experience under
the Rural Water Supply Project validated that finding for projects
in China In terms of health, an international literature review has
shown that moving to safe water reduced diarrheal morbidity by 16
percent, and substantially increased water quantities reduced that
morbidity 25 percent, with a joint effect of 37 percent if both
conditions were met. Hygiene education also offers documented
improvements in health outcomes. Given the broad array of benefits,
private willingness to pay for improved water is high. Therefore,
the project team proposed the following benefit test: Communities
can participate in the water supply component only if households
are willing to contribute roughly 25 percent of the needed capital
costs, assume liability for loan repayment, and pay the full cost
of delivered water. The loan is amortized through water charges
- 4 -



that include the greater of debt service or depreciation, and
operating and maintenance costs. On that basis, the a priori
economic rate of return (ERR) estimated by villagers will be
positive. The actual ERR and Net Present Value (NPV) will remain
unknown, a function of the (unknown) demand for water. Given the
large number of small, dispersed investments, the willingness to
pay test faced by villagers, which is not at all hypothetical, is
deemed adequate as an economic test. The team notes that almost all
water supply projects in the first and second loans continue to
meet the test of covering full costs through water revenues,
validating villagers' expectations.
13.     A similarly compelling benefit test for the sanitation and
health education components has not been identified. However,
numerous international case studies document the importance of
beneficiary behavior with respect to protection and beneficial use
of new water resources. This project would devote approximately
eight percent of total project costs to the health and sanitation
work. Project monitoring will allow impact assessment and, if
needed, midterm revision.
14.     Sustainability. The water supply subcomponent under the first
two projects has demonstrated high levels of sustainability. That
would be enhanced under the current project through increased
villager participation, better construction supervision and more
intensive training of plant operators and managers. The sanitation
and health education component would be sustainable only if
effectively integrated into the existing delivery institutions. To
ensure the latter, no new institutions will be created for the
project, which will work through existing institutions.
15.     Risks. Project risks vary significantly across subcomponents.
As described above, ample experience with the water supply
subcomponent suggests that risks are minimal and easily identified.
The emphasis on project office supervision at the design and early
implementation stages is intended to counter those risks. The risk
to sanitation and health education is that the project would not
identify, or induce the health education institutions to
incorporate, more appropriate health messages or delivery
mechanisms than currently used.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
16.     Both of the first two rural water supply projects in China
and Bank projects in other countries provide lessons directly
applicable to the proposed project. The most important of these are:
(a)     beneficiary participation determines project success. In the
Bank-financed projects, Chinese beneficiaries pay the full cost of
water supply. Bearing this financial burden, they also demand a
large say in how they connect to and use the water systems, have a
strong appreciation of its benefits, and expect to have a voice in
continued operations. The new project will seek to further increase
that participation by requiring formal consultation with the
village committee;
-5-



(b)     improved latrines under RWSS cost much more than the
willingness to pay. That project was targeted on poor areas where
the limited improved latrine adoption has been induced by
government subsidies. The proposed project seeks to lower improved
latrine costs, emphasize school latrines for their demonstration
effect, and emphasize provision of latrine plans over direct construction;
(c)     the health and sanitation education programs under RWSS would
have more impact, and receive more counterpart funding and human
resources, if they were integrated with existing Government-
sponsored rural health and sanitation education programs. At the
same time, the rural health education messages need more careful
targeting and delivery. They should focus on beneficiary behavior
that either helps protect the improved water supplies or helps take
advantage of those supplies to improve sanitation and health practices;
(d)     further improvements in water supply operations need a
combination of aggressive supervision of water plant construction
quality and more intensive staff training in operations and
financial management. These actions will help ensure the long-term
viability of the water plants' physical assets, consistent
achievement of water quality standards, and financial solvency.
Poverty Category
17.     The primary Program Objective Category is environmentally
sustainable development, with poverty alleviation and women in
development as secondary objectives. As discussed above, the target
group is below, but likely near the poverty line. The positive
impact on women of the first two projects is anecdotal, not
statistical. Supervision missions for the previous two IDA-financed
projects have found women to be the primary gatherers and users of
the water supply. Women also occupy a key position in family
hygienic practices, through food preparation, educating and caring
for children, and caring for sick family members. As such, they
report substantial productivity and other benefits from the
project. In some case study villages, women were able to use the
water supplies and time freed from gathering water to grow
courtyard gardens or begin cottage industries as a way of
supplementing their family income.
Environmental Aspects
18.     The project is proposed as environmental Category B. The
proposed physical investments in village water supplies are not
expected to disrupt the landscape or otherwise have major
environmental impacts. Chinese water supply construction practices
call for source protection and other environmental good practice.
No sub-project proposes to transfer water from one watershed to
another, or to undertake work with a similarly large impact, so no
environmental impact assessment would be required. The land used
for the village supply is typically in one of the collectives
benefiting from the water, and would average an estimated 0.08 ha
per water supply facility. A resettlement framework will be
confirmed at appraisal and resettlement inventories or resettlement
- 6 -



action plans prepared, depending on the number of people resettled.
19. Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable Development.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 6, 1997.
- 7 -



Annex
Environment Managing Plan
(prepared by the borrower)
The implementation of the national rural water supply project will
provide safe, hygienic and reliable domestic use of water for
farmer beneficiaries, reduce the incidence of water-borne and
endemic diseases, enhance health level and living quality of farmer
beneficiaries. It would lead to further remarkable improvement of
sanitation and living qualities of beneficial villages through
improvement of sanitation facility, health education, publicity and
training of good hygienic habits. The principal positive effect of
the project sanitation should be fully in the affirmative. However,
should it not pay special attention to some links during the
project design and implementation, the potential negative effect
would still exist. Therefore, the appropriate measures for the
relative links should be taken.
Water Supply Engineering
(1)     National, provincial and county project offices should be
fully aware of and earnestly share responsibility for environment
potential effect, pay particular attention to water source quality,
conduct water source hygienic evaluation, raise water source
hygienic protection requirement, have surface water be in comply
with "Surface Water Environment Quality Standard" (GB3838-88) and
raise water treatment and disinfection requirements and enable the
water supply quality reach the State "Dom3estic Drinking Water
Hygienic Standard" (GB5749-85)
For medium and large piped system, County Environment Protection
Bureau must put forward certification that project environment
evaluation are in compliance with requirements of state environment
protection regulation.
(2)     Detailed, accurate analysis on evaluation of water source
hydrology, hydrogeological materials, allowable extraction rates
and design water supply volume are undertaken in order to ensure
reliability of long-term sustainable water supply.
(3) For water well construction (tube well, large-mouth well) and
use of underground water, it is forbidden to use sewage for
irrigation and to use toxic pesticides within the area having an
impact on the wells of water source. Well undertake well sealing
(seal with water impermeable coat and surface course) and well
mouth, well stand construction to prevent surface water
contamination. Within a range of 10 m, domestic residence, poultry-
livestock farm, seepage latrine, excreta-garbage dumping are not
allowed for maintaining good health condition and whole greening
and constructing water source protection zone. Measures will be
taken to strengthen village education and to prevent animal intrusion.
For fluoride water district, the water yielding aquifer must be
isolated from other aquifers prevent saline, high concentration
- 8 -



fluorides, arsenic water and other potential toxic matters to
intrude into the water extraction aquifer. Efforts should be made
to undertake evaluation, water quality monitoring and analysis.
(4) For water supply piped system which use surface water as water
source, when choosing water source, it should prevent sewage
impact. When extracting water from rivers, sewage, garbage, excreta
transfer wharf and harmful material warehouse are not allowed to be
constructed within 1000 m of upstream and 100 m downstream. The
installation of notice board indicating water source protection
zone should be made in above protection district by local government.
Within the range of water works surrounding 10 m, there should be
listed as major protection district, its requirement similar to
water works of underground water.
(5) Latrines in water plants and such domestic sewage should be
discharged into septic or purification tanks. The sludge and filter
backwashing water of surface water-water works should be collected
separately and discharged outside of water intake downstream
protection zone.
(6) All piped water supply should have special disinfecting and
chlorination facilities. Water chlorine content from water works
should be periodically tested and the residual chlorine value in
pipe ending should be no less than 0.05mg/l. The chlorinating room
should have good ventilation. When using liquid chlorine for
disinfection, the chlorinator should be hermetically sealed. To
guard against chlorine discharge accidents, the chlorination room
should have alarm and chlorine installations to avoid environment
surrounding contamination due to such accidents.
(7) Water extraction and distribution noise nuisance: Generally,
water extraction pump house is located far away from the production
district. Distribution pump house is usually constructed in the
purification house. When pumping units are selected, it should
select low noise facility as fully as possible. Between pump house
and control room, there should be double layered glass observation
window for sound insulation to reduce the noise effect to
operators. But it should have no impact outside the room environment.
(8) In areas where hand pumps are major means for water supply,
water wells are dispersed, so the water is very easily contaminated
by surface water, animals or latrines. Therefore, the design and
hygienic protection of deep well hand pump system including pipe
well, well stand and hand pumps should be in compliance with the
requirements of "Rural Water Supply Design Standard."
Handpumps must be installed on strong concrete base and established
well stand which is higher than well mouth by 100-200 mm. The slop
of well stand base is 1:30 sloping to a discharge channel. The
discharge channel should extend at least 30 m to a seepage pit. The
well stand should be enclosed by a fence.
(9) Water supply by means of rain water catchment. When roof or
- 9-



constructed surface water catchment site are used for the rain
water runoff to water catchment tank, the material quality of roof
rainfall pipe, rain water catchment surface should be non-toxic and
harmless. Also, house holder should be advised to discard the first
rainfall and add bleaching powder in water catchment tank for
disinfection to prevent bacterial infection. Also, they should boil
their drinking water. The water catchment tank should be in
compliance with requirements of "Rural Water Supply Design
Standard." The county Epidemic Prevention Stations should check
water quality in the water catchment tank once every half year to
ensure the safe water quality.
Sanitation
(10) The project will provide certain amount of household and
school complex latrine of which the design should ensure enough
time and enough high temperature for excreta and urine storage to
require killing, eliminating large amount of pathogens (ascaries
ova, bacillus coli). Sealed latrine can prevent pathogen to
infiltrate into soil so as not to endanger surface water or
underground water when fertilizer used in the filed. Also, rational
latrine design can reduce insects interacting into the latrine,
reduce pathogen vehicle, eliminate the bad odor. To construct this
kind of latrine, strengthen the management, sweep off rubbish and
maintain clean condition will have good impact for improvement of
environment quality.
Health and Sanitation Education
(11) Health and sanitation education are mainly to improve the
villager behavior, foster good health habits. To ensure safe
drinking water and improve sanitation in other aspect will lead to
remarkable environment improvement.
- 10 -



