Sf,e,adi
THtE NEW 5aLPJCA            ED
iN Asa
/ ~4*-lEN        =Swa     Fi _-m Il...-
V I N..     .  . .  ..   . 
~FILECP
A JoINT PUBLICATION OF THE
AsiAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
AND
THE WORLD BANK
AUGUST 2000



I



THE NEW
SOCIAL POLICY AGENDA
IN ASIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE MANILA SOCIAL FORUM
A Joint Publication of the
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
AND
THE WORLD BANK
August 2000



National Library of the Philippines CIP Data
The New Social Policy Agenda In Asia
Proceedings of the Manila Social Forum
Manila: Asian Development Bank (ADB), 2000,
252 pages.
ISBN 971-561-300-4
Publication Stock Number: 040600
This book was prepared by staff and consultants of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and
the World Bank. The analyses and assessments contained herein do not necessarily reflect
the views of the ADB and the World Bank, or their Boards of Directors or the governments
they represent ADB and World Bank do not guarantee the accuracy of the data included in
this publication, and accept no responsibility for any consequences for their use. The term
"country" does not imply any judgment as to the legal or other status of any territorial
entity
The Strategy and Policy Department of the ADB and the Governance and Social Policy
Department of the World Bank would be grateful to receive copies of any reviews or
adaptations or translations into other languages.
Copies of this publication can be obtained from Information Office, Asian Development Bank
PO Box 789, 0980 Manila, Philippines; e-mail adb2ub@adb.org Fax No (63-2) 636-2648



T Chino: Fighting Poverty Unites
FIGHmNG POVERTY UNITES
Foreword by: Tadao Chino, President of the Asian Development Bank
THE NEW SOCIAL POUCY AND POVERTY AGENDA IN ASIA
In the early 1970s, more than half the people of Asia' lived in extreme poverty, on
average, Asians lived only 48 years, and six out of 10 could not read. Today, about a third of
Asia's people live in dire poverty, average life expectancy is 65, and 70 percent are literate.
And all this happened while the total population jumped from 1.8 billion to three billion. But
the Asian miracle was not really sustainable. In many countries development has bypassed
the poor. The Asian financial crisis and transition experiences brought vast socioeconomic
changes that often reversed the social achievements of years before. These recent difficulties
have underscored the sad reality of Asias massive underclass, nearly one billion people left
to toil, always hungry, and often sick.
What then is the new social policy and poverty reduction agenda arising from the
Asian economic cnsis and the transition experience? The East Asian and the transition
countries have in common the need to stabilize the pace of social change in a period when
they are facing sudden extemal (and intemal) economic, social, political, and even cultural
shocks. From a social perspective, globalization and transition share the same implications:
a relatively well developed and comprehensive social system-one that was highly successful
in the last 20 years in reducing poverty and improving human development for all-has
come under tremendous financial and organizational pressures. Substantial social reforms
are urgently needed to adapt those countries' social systems and make them more
sustainable within new global trends. Such change can carry a bitter taste. In most countries,
it means giving up long-established social privileges. There are many new losers in this
globalization process: not only the children, the elderly, and the disadvantaged, but also the
urban lower middle class and migration workers.
Development institutions such as the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the World 13ank,
the United Nations (UN) family, and bilateral donors have invested much money and designed
many prolects to address increasing unemployment and poverty arising out of the
globalization process. Much of our common work has had positive and immediate results
for the poor. But we have had to cope also with a lot of new challenges. It is time now to
reflect on what the new social agenda for Asia is and how we can improve our responses to
it. What are the best tools to address these challenges in a world facing increased intemational
competition, and reduced public funds available for social development? in the face of
sudden, deep-going, and long-lasting social shocks during the crisis and increasing problems
at the interface between governance and poverty, how should central and local govemments,
and nongovernment organizations (NGOs) interact? What is then the new role of the private
sector-is privatization of social services really improving their quality and with it access to
the poor? The Asian crisis and transition experiences show that dependence on the private
sector may have been premature How to react to the new challenges of development finance
and external assistance with increasing intemational competition, reduced public funding,
and concentration of money in a smaller number of countries? These are some of the new
concerns in development cooperation.
The Manila Social Forum covered only those Asian countries directly affected by the Asian economic crisis 1996-
1999 (Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand), as well as by transition (i e, the five
Central Asian Republics of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Mongolia, Talikistan, and Uzbekistan, the four countries in
the Greater Mekong Subregion (Cambodia, the Lao PeopleS Democratic Republic, Thailand, and Viet Nam), and the
Peoples Republic of China) Southasla and the Pacfic region were not covered In the discussion



ii    Foreword
Good governance and more effective delivery of social and economic services for the
poor are the center of the new social agenda for Asia. The challenge is to provide adequate
structures for inclusive social development To do so
* more emphasis needs to be given to urban poverty issues, and the interrelations between
urban and rural impoverishment must be addressed. At the same time, in some countries
such as the Philippines or parts of Central Asia, poverty is heavily rooted in structural
weaknesses of the rural economy;
* targeted interventions are urgently needed for particularly vulnerable groups such as
street children or unemployed youth;
* rather than merely increasing social allocations, the emphasis in the face of tighter
budgets needs to be on rationalizing public social expenditures to better respond to
the new social needs and make the social services delivery system more sustainable;
* to be more, efficient and demand-dnven, the state, private sector, local governments,
and civil society need to assume new responsibilities for social protection and social
services delivery;
* in the face of urbanization, changing age and family structures, and increased
unemployment, informal and formal social safety nets in Southeast Asia, the People's
Republic of China (PRC), and the transition economies can no longer provide through
prior arrangements comprehensive social protection and insurance against risks and
economic crises. Pension reform and health insurance, for example, are emerging as
new areas of concem for such economies;
* intra-regional disparities are widening and poverty related tensions are increasing
between and within the Asian countries; and
C the regional (multi-country) dimensions of the socioeconomic crisis and its impact on
labor markets, remittances, regional health, and national and interregional migration
need to be addressed.
Rationalizing social sector budgets; creating a more inclusive formal labor market system;
building up new forms of social protection, including health and old age insurance, enhancing
the responsibilities and means of local govemments to promote social development; more
critically assessing what the pnvate sector can do and what it cannot do in the social
sphere; and being more aware of the critical interface between govemance and poverty
These are some of the topics that were the focus of the Manila Social Forum.
THE MANILA SOCIAL FORUM
From 9 to 12 November 1999, ADB in close cooperation with the World Bank held the
Manila Social Forum at the ADB headquarters. The Manila Social Forum was not intended to
be just another academic conference spouting dry theories. It was a meeting of practitioners
from central and local govemments, NGOs, and the private sector About 250 high-level
representatives (including seven ministers, 25 NGO representatives, 24 delegates from external
assistance agencies and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development [OECDI
countries, 41 World Bank staff including two Vice-Presidents, and more than 50 ADB
colleagues including the entire senior management) discussed the new social policy agenda
in Southeast, East, and Central Asia. Countries covered in the Forum were those whose
social fabric is most directly affected by globalization (i.e, the five East Asian cnsis countnes)
and by transition (i.e, from Central Asia, the Greater Mekong subregion IGMS], and the PRC).



T Chino: Fighting Poverty Unites  iii
The papers presented at the Forum were based on the countries' realities and
implementation capacities. It was a refreshing experience to see what really works, and
what does not A highlight of the Forum was the Meeting with the Filipino People, that brought
together with President Joseph Estrada and Cabinet members of the Philippines, a World
Bank Vice-President and many senior staff, and the entire ADB senior management in
Mandaluyong's Garden of Hope (Hardin ng Pag-asa)
The Forum revealed that some of the solutions that were taken for granted before the
globalization process really took off in the mid-1 990s need to be changed. For example: (i)
with enterprise restructuring, divestiture of social and other assets, policies to increase wages
and income, and the generation of new education-intensive jobs in the formal sector, labor
market issues are gaining more relevance; (ii) social safety nets in Asia are responsive to
crises However, they are not inclusive enough and probably also not sustainable. There is a
need for more public systems of risk aversion, (iii) in health and education, rationalizing
social expenditures is the major concern. Decentralized service delivery and social
expenditure systems was found to best protect against social sector budget cuts; (iv) whereas
the private sector has limitations in delivering social services for all, corporate responsibilities
can be explored more, (v) there must be increased responsibility for a transparent and well
governed state, and increased emphasis on stakeholders such as local governments and
NGOs. Also, intemational finance institutions need to strengthen their good governance
activities; (vi) one of the long-term implications of the crisis and globalization process is the
inherent contradictions between financial and economic incentives and social orientation.
The complexity of infrastructure and agriculture investments need to be considered, and
investments in these sectors need to be better linked to social sector and poverty alleviation
activities in other sectors, and (vii) in the face of globalization, the private sector and
governments are reallocating resources to short-term stabilization of the financial and
banking sectors. As a result, necessary social and economic infrastructure investments are
being neglected, and support for the real economy is redirected to short-term profit gaining
sectors. In this context, multinational development banks may have a new role to address
the long-term social and economic implications of the crisis and transition.
THE ADB POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
As an institution whose purpose is the economic development of the region, ADB has
always been concemed with poverty. Poverty has economic costs, reduces development
potential, and increases inequity. In pursuing its development objectives of inclusive economic
growth, equitable human development, and sustainable environment, ADB-in partnership
with its clients, pnvate sector, civil society and NGOs, and bilateral and multilateral
institutions-has leamed much about how to address the various dimensions of poverty.
In November 1999 the Board of Directors announced that poverty reduction shall be
the overarching goal of the ADB. From 2001 onwards, all loan projects and all other activities
of the ADB have to prove how they contribute to poverty reduction in a given country With
this poverty reduction focus, the hierarchy of ADBs development objectives has changed,
and the project classification scheme was revised. Between 1993 and 2000, ADB classified
its projects in five strategic development objectives (SDO), ie., promoting growth, and
committed itself to ensure at least 50 percent of its projects have development goals other
than pure economic growth. From 2001 onwards, all projects will be redesigned to address
the three pillars of the poverty reduction strategy: i.e., pro-poor growth projects, poverty
and core poverty interventions, and good governance for poverty reduction From then
onwards, at least 40 percent of ADB public sector lending shall go to poverty and-by 2002-
the percentage of core poverty intervention in the overall portfolio of ADB will substantially
increase. This means, we will be doing more farm-to-market roads and fewer airports, more



iV    Foreword
rural health clinics and fewer big power plants. We will be looking for low-tech labor-intensive
solutions for production and construction activities. We will be searching for new ways to
provide protection when people or economies fall on hard times. And we will try to make all
of our work in the social sectors more relevant to the needs of the disadvantaged.
To reduce poverty more effectively, we shall do more work direct with local communities
and NGOs. We will also work more closely with the donor community Donors provide support
through finance, demonstration, and advice. But though aid agencies can do a great deal,
the main responsibility for reducing poverty rests with countnes themselves That is why
good governance is a centerpiece of ADB's new strategy. Good govemance is critical to
effective delivery of basic services to the poor Good governance promotes sound
management and stops corruption. Get rid of corruption and millions of people would be no
longer poor. Corruption hurts the poor most. And it holds back economic development
ADB will offer a mix of assistance to each country, depending on the specific causes of
poverty, the country's and other assistance programs, the institutional setting, and ADB's
comparative advantage. For example, where past performance in poverty reduction has
been weak, and inequality is rising, the emphasis will be on governance and social
development. Cross-cutting priorities such as participation, inclusion of vulnerable groups,
promoting gender equity, pnvate sector development, environmental sustainability, and
good governance and equitable development will be highlighted in the project designs In
countries where essential reforms have been undertaken, growth-oriented investments will
reduce poverty. In each country, the mix and nature of prolects will be shaped by a
participatory poverty analysis. This will ensure that ADB tackles actual constraints and
opportunities for poverty reduction and not merely symptoms.
ADB has a new role if these efforts are to be successful. And this role goes beyond
providing funds and financing prolects or even financing the poor. Implementing the poverty
reduction strategy is the mandate of everybody in ADB on the country programming side,
project level, and with regard to cross-cutting dimensions and poverty analysis. The
partnership agreement will help ensure that only those projects will be selected that promise
the biggest return in terms of poverty reduction. To target the poor as beneficiaries and
create a sustainable environment for structurally addressing poverty, the intra-sectoral and
macro-linkages of the project will also be considered.
WORKING TOGETHER IN THE INTERESTS OF ASIA'S POOR
The complexity of poverty, the limited resources available, and the need for developing
countries to best use the relatively expensive money they get from our loans, all this calls
for more cooperation and more options and choices The topic of poverty reduction and
social development, it seems, brings together people with a sincere aim for change.
The Manila Social Forum has seen ADB and the World Bank make a great effort to
jointly work with their partners to forge a new social agenda for Asia. It was also a good
example of close cooperation between the two institutions, which share the same concerns
of sustainable and inclusive development as well as the overarching aim of poverty reduction.
We are leaming more and more that we need each other to implement this goal, because
addressing poverty is much more difficult than promoting economic and environmentally
friendly growth through infrastructure, finance and agricultural investment, human
development, poverty and improving social development in Asia
The World Bank has proposed a comprehensive development framework. We support
this approach and have already agreed on the Kyrgyz Republic and Viet Nam as the two
pilot countries However, there are also areas of social development where different
institutions have different comparative advantages, and where the developing country



T China. FRghting Poverty Unites  V
governments have good reasons to choose between different offers of support. For example,
in Central Asia, ADB and the World Bank have a good cooperation agreement based on the
former's long-standing experience in education and the latter's in health.
FROM COOPERATION TO OPERATION
Setting the right strategic focus, attracting support from our partners in the developing
and the OECD world as well as the private sector and civil society, and working closely
together as two independent institutions, each of which brings its own comparative
advantages, are a good starting point for success. However, the challenge is now to
operationalize our commitment towards the new social policy and poverty agenda in Asia.
We have to make sure that we do not apply a "one size fits all" approach to poverty
reduction. Countries differ in their needs, and so do social groups. The urban poor in Mongolia
are very different from the urban poor of, say, Manila. We have to find new ways to maximize
the impact of our loans After all, that is what will count, not conferences or forums. Like all
institutions and people, ADB has limited resources. In the face of economic realities and as
poverty becomes more complex in the context of globalization and transition, we need new
creative and workable ideas to design good projects. Not every project in which the poor are
beneficiaries is a good project when it comes to sustainable poverty reduction. And likewise,
non-targeted economic growth projects with trickle down effects to the poor can have
substantial poverty reduction impact if a more structural approach is taken. Combating
poverty is a challenge bigger than simply building roads and power plants. We cannot
afford duplications, redundancies, and conflicts in our work. That is, why I would like to
emphasize the need for even more cooperation between the two banks, but even more so
with all of you.
ADB is situated in Manila. From my window I can see the high-rise skyline of Makati
and the squatter area of Mandaluyong. I can see a waste dump, a rice field, and a park.
What a city of extremes, like most in Asia-with a few rich people, some ordinary folks, and
a lot of poor people living in squalor. Outside the city, there can be found more of the
underprivileged. And outside the Philippines, we would find the tragedy of poverty repeated
many times over.
Altogether 900 million Asians live on less than a dollar a day, less indeed than the price
of a cup of coffee in a restaurant many of us might visit daily. These people have missed out
on Asia's boom years. Their plight is simply unacceptable. We can get rid of this scourge We
need to give hope to them, by listening to them, by giving them opportunities, and by
empowering them to help themselves. This is what development is all about. It is what
drives the development assistance of ADB and the World Bank.






S Nishimoto and I Schweitzer Acknowledgments  Vii
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This book is about partnership, and a rededication of the development community to
the new social agenda for East Asia for the 215 century It reflects an important common
effort of ADB and the World Bank to join forces and work closely together to meet the
challenges for human development that face Asia today.
The crisis that struck Asia in 1997 has proved even more a social than a financial
emergency. While Asia is clearly on a road to economic recovery, the social consequences
are still unfolding, with serious implications for poverty and govemance. The crisis affected
virtually every aspect of life, with particularly negative effects for human potential in the
short and long terms. Workers left without jobs, fathers and mothers unable to feed their
children, and children dropping out of school illustrate this drama. As formal and informal
safety nets proved insufficient, social exclusion and violence has increased, with particularly
grave consequences for the vulnerable and for poor communities.
Asian countries may well emerge from the crisis with a renewed commitment and
greater capacity to fight poverty through more effective social policies. Thus, the challenges
of the last three years present an opportunity to reflect on fundamental development policies
and introduce strategic reforms in the region to consider the needs of a new social policy
agenda. As growth resumes, Asia can shift its development paradigm towards socially
inclusive equitable growth, human development, and participatory governance for
sustainable poverty reduction.
To address the social challenges that confronted Asia as a result of the crisis, the World
Bank, with strong support from ADB, in January 1999 organized a meeting in Bangkok. The
Bangkok conference was seen as the first of a regular senes to address the social impact of
the Asian crisis. We can see now, more than a year later, that the social impact of the crisis
has proved less devastating than it appeared when the Bangkok process was launched.
However, the discussions in early 1999 did highlight the human significance of the crisis
impact and the need to learn lessons from the experience. More important, it underscored
the challenge to the complex development partnerships in responding to a new and
demanding agenda to put social issues and the battle against poverty back squarely at the
center of Asia's development agenda.
Ten months later, the two institutions, this time with ADB in the lead, organized the
Manila Social Forum. As a meeting of practitioners who know realities on the ground, the
Forum addressed a wide range of topics such as inclusive labor markets, rationalizing social
public expenditure through decentralization of social services, the role of the private sector
in job creation, governance and poverty, the new challenge of urban poverty, and building
up proactive social safety nets. The Forum made abundantly clear that some of the
presumptions and paradigms accepted as axiomatic before the globalization process really
took off in the mid-1 990s need to be changed. It stimulated new thinking on the Asian social
agenda coinciding with the beginning of the new millennium.
The Manila Social Forum brought together about 250 people from all sectors of society
(high-ranking members of govemments, civil society, and the private sector, as well as from
academia and international donors). They engaged in an active dialogue to help elaborate
a new social policy agenda for the region. The importance of the institutional partnership
between the World Bank and ADB is indicated by the active involvement of the senior
management of these institutions. These included all three Vice-Presidents and President
Thdao Chino of ADB, while the Washington-based World Bank brought to Manila practically



Viii    Acknowledgments
its whole East Asia management staff, including two Vice-Presidents, various country directors,
and sector managers ADB and World Bank also jointly established a web site to support the
event. A particularly moving highlight of the Forum was the Meeting with the Filipino People,
together with President Estrada and many Cabinet members of the Philippines in
Mandaluyong's Garden of Hope
Compiling the Manila Social Forum proceedings, this publication offers another example
of the two organizations' firm commitment to contribute in partnership to development
and poverty reduction in the region. It is also an example of good collaboration and
commitment of staff. Above all, we acknowledge the work of Katherine Marshall (Director,
Social Policy and Governance, the World Bank) and her staff team (John Clark, Kathrin
Plangemann, Louis-Charles Viossat, and Sonya Woo), and particularly Armin Bauer (Economist,
Social Development, ADB) with his consultant team and secretariat (John Blomquist, Adel
Burgos, and Zuleikha Mulsid as well as Eric Ambata, Graham Dwyer, Jhoanna Gavinio, and
Clarisse Molina) in organizing the Manila Social Forum and putting together this publication.
The proceedings will be published in two volumes with ADB taking the lead on the first
book. The second publication (on Social Safety Nets) is scheduled for distnbution in 2001
It is a fundamental part of our mission to work together to ensure that our efforts are
complementary and, individually and collectively, support and enrich the development
agenda for the peoples of Asia. We hope that this publication will help policymakers in the
Asian and Pacific region address these new social policy challenges And we also hope that
the remarkable human development achievements of the last two decades cannot merely
be preserved, but serve as an impetus for stronger socially and economically sustainable
development at the beginning of the new millennium.
Shoji Nishimoto                     Julian Schweitzer
Director,                            Director for Strategy and Operations
Strategy and Policy Department       East Asia and the Pacific
Asian Development Bank, Manila       The World Bank, Washington



Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Currency Equivalents  ix
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB             -      Aslan Development Bank
AIDS            -      acquired immune deficiency syndrome
AMC             -      Asset Management Corporation
APEC            -      Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation
ARC             -      Agrarian Reform Community
ASEAN           -      Association of Southeast Asian Nations
ASEM            -      Asia-Europe Meeting
CARP            -      Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Programme
(Philippines)
CDF             -      Comprehensive Development Framework
CU              -      credit union
DAR             -      Department of Agrarian Reform (Philippines)
DENR            -      Department of Environment and National Resources
(Philippines)
DMC             -      developing member countries (of ADB)
DSWD            -      Department of Social Welfare and Development
(Philippines)
ESCAP           -      Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
EU              -      European Union
FCSCU           -      Financial Company for Support and Development
GDP             -      gross domestic product
GMS             -      Greater Mekong subregion
ha              -      hectare
HDI             -      Human Development Index
HIV             -      human immunodeficiency virus
HOMENET         -      Intemational Network of Homeworkers
IBRD            -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA             -      International Development Association
ILO             -      Intemational Labour Organization
IMF             -      Intemational Monetary Fund
IRA             -      Internal Revenue Allotment
JBIC            -      Japan Bank for International Cooperation
km              -      kilometers
Lao PDR         -      Lao People's Democratic Republic
LTCM            -      Long-Term Capital Management
MBN             -      minimum basic needs
MODE, Inc.      -      Management and Organizational Development for
Empowerment
MOH             -      Ministry of Health



X     Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Currency Equivalents
MRH             -      matemal rest homes (Mongolia)
NAPC            -      National Anti-Poverty Commission (Philippines)
NBKR            -      National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic
NEDA            -      National Economic Development Authonty (Philippines)
NGO             -      nongovernment organization
ODA             -      official development assistance
OECD            -      Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
PO              -      People's Organization
PRC             -      People's Republic of China
RGC             -      Royal Govemment of Cambodia
SDO             -      strategic development objective
SHG             -      self-help group
SME             -      small and medium enterprises
SP              -      social protection
SOE             -      state-owned enterprise
SRM             -      social risk management
SSE             -      social services expenditure
UCDO            -      Urban Community Development Office (Thailand)
UN              -      United Nations
UNDP            -      United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO          -      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UNFPA           -      United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF          -      United Nations Children's Fund
WHO             -      World Health Organization
Note: T$" means US dollar, unless otherwise stated



Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Currency Equivalents  Xi
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(AS OF 4 AUGUST 2000)
Country                                        Currency          $ Equivalent
Australia                                  Australian Dollar      $1 = A$1.7
Cambodia                                         Riel            $1 = KR3,772
China, People' Republic of                     Renminbi          $1 = Y8.3
European Euro                                    Euro            $1 = EUR1.09
Indonesia                                       Rupiah           $1 = Rp8,772
Japan                                            Yen              $1 = Y108.7
Kazakhstan                                      Tenge             $1 = T141
Korea, Republic of                               Won             $1 = W1,1 16
Kyrgyz Republic                                  Som             $1 =Som467
Lao, People' Democratic Republic of               Kip            $1 = KN7,600
Malaysia                                        Ringgit          $1 = RM3 8
Mongolia                                        Tugrik           $1 = Tugnkl,033
Philippines                                      Peso            $1 = P44.7
Tajikistan                                    Thjik Ruble        $1 = T1R899.4
Thailand                                         Baht             $1 = B40.8
United Kingdom                                  Pound            $1 = £0.67
Uzbekistan                                       Sum             $1 = SUM251.0
Viet Nam                                         Dong             $1 = Dl 4,090






Table of Contents  Xiii
TABLE OF CON1ENTS
FOREWORD ..................................................................
Fighting Poverty Unites
(Tadao Chino, President of the Asian Development Bank)
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ................................................................  vil
Shoji Nishimoto (Director Strategy and Policy Department,
Asian Development Bank) and
Julian Schweitzer (Director, Strategy and Operations, The World Bank)
ACRONYMS, ABBREVIATIONS AND CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS ..........................................  Ix
LIST OF TABLES AND CHARTS ................................................................  xvii
1. THE MANILA SOCIAL FORUM                       .1
1.1  Economic Growth, Social Development, and Poverty
Reduction in Asia (H.E. Joseph E. Estrada,
President of the Philippines)             .1
1.2  Operational Lessons and Challenges for Social Development
in Asia (lean-Michel Severino, former Vice President of the
World Bank for East Asia and Pacific Region)     .5
2. THE SOCIAL IMPACT OF THE ASIAN CRISIS              .     .     .        9
2.1  Economic and Social Implications of the Asian Crisis
2.1.1  The Financial and Economic Crisis in Asia:
Causes and Long-term Implications
(Justin Lin, Peoples Republic of China)   .9
2.1 2  The Deeper Crisis: Social Consequences of the Financial Crisis
in Asia (Emesto M. Pernia, Asian Development Bank) .18
2.1 3  Beyond the Asian Crisis: The Centrality of Social Policy
(Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, Vice-President of the Philippines)  24
2.2  Labor Markets and Employment
2.2.1  Migration and Regional Interdependencies:
The Labor Market in Lao PDR
(Noy Indavong, Lao People's Democratic Republic) .27
2.2.2  Social Priorities and the Labor Market in Uzbekistan
(Aleksandr S. Navotniy, Uzbekistan) .30
2.2.3  Employment Policies In the Republic of Korea After
the Crisis (Hanam S. Phang, Republic of Korea) .33
2.2.4  Increasing Urban Employment in Shanghai:
Active Labor Market Programs and Other Initiatives
(Zhang Dezhi, People's Republic of China) .37
2.3  Vulnerability and Exclusion
2 3.1  The Concept of Social Exclusion and Vulnerability
(Anita Kelles-Viitanen, Asian Development Bank) .40
2.3 2  Challenges in Addressing Gender Concerns in the Asian
Economic Cnsis (Patncia Licuanan, Philippines) .45
2 3 3  Women and Civil Society In a Crisis Environment:
Examples from Cambodia (Sochua Mu-Lelper, Cambodia)       49



XiV      Table of Contents
2 3 4   Vulnerability and Reverted Gender Issues in Education and
Health (Pagbalabyn Nymadawa, Mongolia) .......... ............. .. ....  52
2.3.5   The Vulnerability of Homeworkers in Southeast Asia
(Lucita Lazo, Philippines) ....................................... ...... .... ....  56
2.3.6   Children as Losers in Economic Development: Strategies and
Policies to Promote the Best Interests of Children in East and
Southeast Asia (Kanchada Pinyarangsan, Thailand) ........ .....  .......  59
3.   RURAL AND URBAN FACES OF POVERTY ................................................................  65
3.1   Urban Development and Poverty
3.1 1   Reforms of State-owned Enterprises and Social Protection
in the People's Republic of China
(Chen Qunzhou, People's Republic of China) .65
3 1 2   Citizens' Network to Address Urban Poverty in Thailand
(Somsook Boonyabancha, Thailand) .68
3.2   Rural Development and Poverty
3.2.1   Rural Development Policies for Poverty Alleviation in Viet Nam
(Le Hong Thai, Viet Nam) ..... .... ..... .. ...... .. ... .         71
3.2.2   Microfinance and the Rural Poor: Some Reality Checks in
Indonesia (Em. Haryadi, Indonesia) ......... ............. ...... .... ...... ...  74
3.2.3   Credit Unions as Altemative Banking Institutions:
The Experience of the Kyrgyz Republic
(Ainura Kyptchakbaeva, Kyrgyz Republic) .... .............. ....... .......  78
3 2.4   Poverty Reduction at the Beginning of the New Millennium:
Challenges for the PRC
(Zhang Lei, People's Republic of China) .................   ............... .... ..  81
3 2 5   When Does Agrarian Reform Work for the Filipino Poor?
(Horacio Morales, Philippines) ................. ... ................ ... ........... ..  83
4.   SOCIAL SAFETY NETS ...............................................................  89
4 1   Falling Through Safety Nets and Building on Pillars of Social Protection.
Summary of Panel and workshop Discussions at the
Manila Social Forum (John Blomquist, USA) .........  .. .. ...  ..............  89
4.2   Emerging Lessons on Social Safety Nets
(Emmanuel Jimenez, World Bank) ................................................... ......  92
4.3   Social Protection and the Asian Development Bank
(Isabel Ortiz, Asian Development Bank) .............. .. .... .......... ... ... .. .... .... .  95
4.4   Social Risk Management: The World Bank's New Conceptual Framework
for Social Protection (Robert Holzmann, World Bank) ........ .... .. .. ......... ...  99
4.5   Public Works Programs for Managing the Economic Cnsis in the
Republic of Korea (Po-hi Pak, Republic of Korea) ............... .... ............. ....  102
4.6   Which Poor to Help' Coordinated Poverty Alleviation in the Philippines
(Donna Gasgonia, Philippines) ............................ ......................... ......  106
5.   SOCIAL SECTOR REFORMS ...............................................................  111
5.1   Social Sector Reforms in Asia After the Crisis: Operational Lessons
(Katherine Marshall, World Bank) ......1.............................................11
5.2   Local Governments' Expenditures for Social Services Delivery
(Benjamin Diokno, Philippines) .............................. .................................  115



Table of Contents  xv
5.3  Block Grants to Reform the Education and Health Sectors in Indonesia
(Hidayat Syarief, Indonesia) .117
5.4  Cambodia's Health Situation Policy Reforms and Investment
Implications (Char Meng Chuor, Cambodia) .120
5 5  Reforming Social Sectors and Reducing Poverty:
TWo Different Issues in Mongolia (Sodov Sonin, Mongolia) .124
5.6  Labor Market Relevant Education Reforms in the Kyrgyz Republic
(Melisbek Satybekov, Kyrgyz Republic) .127
5.7  Thailands New TWelve Years of Education for All Program
(Chuachan Chongsatityoo, Thailand) .129
6.  PUBUC-PRIVATE INTERFACE AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITIES .      .135
6.1  The Role of the Private Sector for Poverty Reduction and Social
Development in Asia (Christine Wallich, ADB) .135
6 2  Corporate Responsibility for Social Development in the Philippines
(Roberto de Ocampo, Philippines) .141
6.3  Public-Private Partnerships in Health and Education:
Conceptual Issues and Options (Yidan Wang, ADB Institute) .144
6.4  Promoting Business for Poverty Reduction: An Example from the
Philippines (Paul Dominguez, Philippines) .149
6.5  Economic and Social Impediments to Small Industry Development in
Uzbekistan (Klara Djumamuratova, Uzbekistan).                     151
6.6  Socially Responsible Investment: How to Make it Possible
(Amy Domini, USA) .154
7.  GOOD GOVERNANCE FOR POVERTY REDUCTION IN ASIA       .     .157
7.1  Good Governance for Poverty Reduction: An Introduction
(Katherine Marshall, The World Bank) .157
7.2  Governance and Anticorruption: A Hopeful Realism
(Salvatore Schiavo Campo, Asian Development Bank) .160
7.3  Fighting Corruption to Help the Poor
fTnku Abdul Aziz, Malaysia) .162
7.4  Social Impact of Governance Reforms in Mongolia
(Davaadorjiin Delgertsorgt, Mongolia) .164
7.5  Local Govemments and National Poverty Alleviation
Programs in the Philippines (Jesse Robredo, Philippines) .169
7 6  Increasing Transparency of Government-Sponsored Poverty
Projects in Indonesia Through Community-Based Information
(Hetifah Sjaifudlan, Indonesia) .173
7.7  What Can NGOs Do to Enhance Economic Development Benefiting the
Poor in the Philippines (Teresita Quintos Deles, Philippines) .176
7.8  Monitoring Foreign Aid: Governance Challenges for Poverty
Reduction in Thailand (Nontaphon Nimsomboon, Thailand) .178



Xvi      Table of Contents
7.9  Reflections on the Role of the Media in Promoting Transparent and
Participatory Social Development (Malou Mangahas, Philippines) .. ....... ...  181
8.  THE REGIONAL DIMENSIONS OF POVERTY ...............................................................  183
8.1  Regional Dimensions of the Asian Cnsis: An Overview
(Shoji Nishimoto, ADB).13 .... .........................................................  183
8.2  Challenges for the Developed World in Supporting Regional Social
Development in Asia (Robert McKinnon, Australia) .............  ............. .....  188
8.3  Europe, the Asian Economic Crisis, and the ASEM Trust Fund
(Alistair MacDonald, European Commission) .................................. ....... ..... ..  191
8.4  Japan's New Role for Regional Social Development in Asia
(unichi Hasegawa, Japan) .. . .... .                                194
8 5  Regional Cooperation for Social Policy: The ESCAP Agenda
(Gonzalo  Jurado, ESCAP) ................. ..............................................  196
9.  LONG-TERM IMPLICATIONS OF GLOBALIZATION ...........................................................  199
9.1  Why are Multinational Development Banks in the Loop Again?
(Brahm Prakash, ADB).     ....................... ............................ ........ . ...  199
9.2  What Does Poverty Cost? Reflections on Philippine Government
Anti-Poverty Programs (Leonor Bnones, Philippines) ....................... . ....  202
9.3  Asia's Economic and Structural Policy Agenda
(Masahiro Kawai, World Bank) .204
9.4  Social Benefits of a Gradual Approach. The Example of Uzbekistan
(Bakhtiya K. Khamidov, Uzbekistah) ................................ ............... . 207
9.5  Promotion of Social Development in Asia. The Japan Bank for
Intemational Cooperation (Rentaro Tamaishi, Japan) .. ....................................  210
9.6  The New IMF Architecture in Asia (Peter S. Heller, IMF) ......................  ........  212
9 7  Weapons or Well-Being? East Asia's Most Important Choice for
the New Millennium (Kul Gautam, UNICEF) ................................ ............. ....  215
9.8  Sustainable Development: New Milestones for Asia
(Terence Jones, UNDP) .219
10. THE VISION OF A NEW SOCIAL PARTNERSHIP IN ASIA .223
ADB and World Bank's Vision of a New Social Partnership in Asia
(Peter Sullivan and Mats Karlsson, Vice-Presidents of the Asian Development
Bank and the World Bank) .223
1 1. APPENDIX:
LIST OF PARTICIPANTS AT THE MANILA SOCIAL FORUM .227



List of Tables and Charts  Xvii
LIST OF TABLEs
Table 1:  Balance of Payment on Current Account ($ million) in Asia .1 3
Table 2:  Foreign Debt as a Percent of GDP in Asia .13
Table 3:  Short-Term Debt as Percent of Foreign Reserve in Asia .14
Table 4:  Debt to Equity Ratio in Asia, 1996.15
Table 5:  .Public Expenditure for Unemployment Measures in the
Republic of Korea, 1998.36
Table 6:  Budget Allocation to Basic Social Services,
Defense, and Debt Service in Selected Countries .61
Table 7:  Distribution of Benefits of Public Health Spending in Selected
Countries .61
ibble 8:  Poverty in Indonesia, 1996-1999 .74
Table 9:  Bina Swadaya Achievements in Indonesia .76
Taible 10: Korean Social Safety Net Components (May, 1999; 10,000 Persons)  105
Table 11: Cambodia's Government Budget Devoted to Health Sector .............................  123
Table 12:  Major Indicators of Poverty  in Mongolia .............................  ..............................  124
Table 13: Changes of Expenditures on Social Subsectors in Mongolia ...........................  125
Table 14: Enrollment by Levels and Enrollment Rates in Thailand ........  ......... .....  129
Table 15: Actors for Providing Social Services Through the Public and Private
Sectors .........................................14.........4.......   144
Table 16: Distribution of Public-Private Expenditures for Health and Education
in Asia, 1990 ................................................................  145
Table 17: Summary of Social Impact of Governance Reforms in Mongolia ...... .........  168
LIST OF CHARTS
Chart 1:  Percentage Changes in Real Earnings Per Worker, 1997-1998 .19
Chart 2:  Public Sector Spending on Social Welfare in Asia and
Other Regions .93
Chart 3:  Military Expenditures by Region .215
Chart 4:  Military Expenditures of Different Asian Countnes .216
Chart 5:  Military Expenditures by Organizatio .217






The
1          Manila
Social Forum
ECONOMIC GROWTH, SocIAL DEVELOPMENT,
AND POVERTY REDUCTION IN ASIA2
His Excellency, Joseph E. Estrada, President of the Philippines
I wish to thank the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the World Bank for inviting me
to address your Manila Social Forum. May I also extend to our foreign guests the warmest
welcome of the Filipino people here in the Hardin ng Pag-asa, the Garden of Hope, in the
midst of the city of Mandaluyong. I thank and commend both ADB and the World Bank for
choosing Manila as the venue for this gathering. It recognizes the confluence of the theme
of your forum and the aspirations of our country. just as poverty reduction is the core
purpose of the World Bank and the newly-announced strategy of ADB, poverty eradication
is also the overriding mission of the Philippine Government
POVERTY ERADICATION - THE OVERRIDING VISION OF OUR JOINT EFFORTS
I do not hesitate to use the word "eradication." It reflects, and helps to intensify, the
strength of our ambition. And "reduction," the preferred language of ADB and the World
Bank. is actually the transition, the forward move, from the present prevalence of poverty to
its ultimate eradication Reduction is the process. Eradication is the outcome. Poverty
eradication may be unattainable in theory, but we can get close enough to it for all practical
purposes.
As you may know, I ran and won as president of my country largely on my anti-poverty
platform. In 1998, 1 was deeply honored by the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)
when it named me as the group's anti-poverty exponent And I was pleased to read about
the recent strategic shift of ADB from promoting growth, in general, to focusing on poverty
reduction, in particular I can observe the major convergence of the Manila-based ADB and
the strategy of the Philippine Government. President Tadao Chino of ADB talks about "his
vision of an Asia free of poverty" and I addressed the Philippine nation in my inaugurating
speech as President with "A Poverty-Free Philippines'
My Government considers poverty an intolerable social shame that cries out not for
marginal attention but for a total approach. For us, the war on poverty is not just a policy
but a passion. As President of the Philippines I deplore the fact that the past economic
programs of this country were mostly upside-down They aimed at developing the apex and
neglected the base. Our belief is the opposite: uplifting the nch leaves the poor behind, but
uplifting the poor lifts everyone, including the rich. Our vision is, therefore, not lust the
alleviation of poverty but its ultimate eradication. Alleviation is temporary, eradication is
permanent. Alleviation is limited, eradication Is total. The proper response to the problem of
poverty is not superficial treatment but total structural change. Although eradication may
be unattainable, getting as close to it as possible is worth the effort.
2 This is a modified version of President Estrada's keynote address to the Manila Social Forum during the Meeting
with the Filipino People in Mandaluyong's Garden of Hope



2      Chapter 1. The Manila Social Forum
Jesus Christ said: "The poor you will always have with you," but he did not say they had
to be the majority My vision is to dnve poverty away from the center and into the periphery
of our concerns, to make it a marginal rather than a mainstream problem. Hence, our war
on poverty is not just one program of the Govemment; it is the overriding business of
governance itself, built into and embedded in our total economic and social programs.
Poverty alleviation defines and drives the substance, the content, and the heart and soul of
our entire strategy of Government.
POVERTY IS BAD ECONOMICS
It is essential for our war on poverty that development efforts be redirected towards
the poor, towards the base of our society. Poverty is not just a social disgrace but bad
economics. The converse is that poverty eradication is not just a requirement of social
justice, not just a cry of the conscience, but also good economics Poverty constricts domestic
markets, poverty reduction expands them to the extent that investments create new jobs
and increase incomes Poverty suppresses productivity, poverty reduction enhances it, to
the extent that it opens up access to better education, health care, and other social services
that build up the people's capabilities.
One pattern of development is to modemize the apex and neglect the base, to upgrade
the penthouse and allow the foundations to rot - or at best to expect the benefits of progress
to 'trickle down" This model is totally unacceptable and discredited. The drip method it
entails is the development equivalent of water torture. Development could result in higher
incomes but also in their greater concentration, or narrower dispersion. A growth program
that considers poverty eradication incidental-or even accidental-is bound to increase
inequality, which improvements in per capita incomes could very well mask
The primary eradicators of poverty are private investments and public investments in
social and economic infrastructure. These create jobs, provide new incomes, and open up
opportunities for personal improvements in career and competencies. It is the task of
government to provide the laws, the policies, and an environment of peace, justice, and
stability that encourage such investments. it is also the task of government to remove the
obstacles that stand in the way of investments. Some of these obstacles are in laws and
policies, which can be improved through legislation or policy revisions Others are physical,
which can be removed through infrastructure
PRO-POOR GROWTH AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
The condition sine qua non for poverty reduction is growth While growth can take
place without poverty reduction, poverty reducfion cannot take place without growth. Robin
Hood is not an ideal model for redistributing incomes to the poor Yet, while growth is
essential, it is not enough. Aspiring for growth in the aggregate does not guarantee poverty
reduction Determining the right structure of growth is also cntical Some patterns of
development are more pro-poor than others, even if they produce the same rate of growth.
Farm-to-market roads have a higher poverty-reduction impact than urban skyways So do
labor-demanding investments as against heavy capital-intensive industnes, rural health
units as against sophisticated tertiary hospitals, and primary and secondary education as
against just about everything else.
In our view, there should be no separation between growth and poverty eradication.
Poverty reduction cannot be lust a byproduct of development, but its very objective. The
poor must not be just the end-beneficiaries of the process of development, but its starting
point. Investments in physical capital and the employment of technology must be aimed
primanly at creating jobs for them, and investments in human capital must be aimed at
equipping them for those jobs. If development begins with the poor, then the result is not
trickle-down, but heave-up.



I Estrada: Economic Growth, Social Development and Poverty Reducton in Asia  3
Growth can and must take a pro-poor path. Growth and equity cannot be sequential,
with growth coming first and distribution after that is precisely the trickle-down concept.
Growth and poverty reduction must be integrated in one process. And this demands a
systemic rather than a piecemeal approach. Poverty cannot be conquered by pocket battles
alone; it calls for total war. And in the case of the Philippines, it calls for a tectonic shift in
strategy.
POVERTY ALLEVIATION IN THE PHILIPPINES
The East Asian experience shows what works, and what doesn't, in promoting growth.
What works is development that is market-driven, export-pursuing, outward-looking, in an
environment of sound policies, good governance and of stability. What didn't work was
shown in different ways by what we might call the "old" China and the 'old" Philippines. The
"old" China subjected its economy to central planning. The "old" Philippines pursued an
inward-looking policy of import-substitution, protectionism, and controls. The People's
Republic of China (PRC) has since discovered the wonders of the market, released large
sectors of its economy to its forces, and displayed exceptionally high growth rates over a
sustained period.
The Philippines, since 1986, has radically shifted from a mandate to a market economy.
The state has withdrawn its interventionist, protectionist, and heavy regulatory hand from
the market, and instead has reshaped its role. It has devoted itself to ensuring and enhancing
the market's efficiency and integnty, and aims at providing stability, sound policies, and
good govemance. In this, the Philippines at least enjoy the latecomer' advantage. We can
learn from those who preceded us, emulate their successes, and avoid their mistakes, but
modifying the lessons from their expenence with the insights we derive from our own culture,
history, and defining characteristics as a people.
We in the Philippines now have to accelerate and compress our timetable for our poverty
reduction program. We want to catch up, not so much with our neighbors, but more with
our own aspirations and our own sense of social justice. Our catch-up goals are ambitious
We aspire to reduce poverty substantially: from an incidence of over 32 percent today to
25-28 percent by 2004. In other words, we seek to lift more than 3.9 million Filipinos out of
poverty, and we hope to lay the foundations and launch the initiatives that will make the
process irreversible, even beyond my term as President of this country
For example, whereas past administrations were dazzled by the glitz and glamour of
capital-intensive industries, my Government has made a strategic shift of focus in our policies
and budgets towards agriculture and the development of the rural areas, where two thirds
of our poor people live, work, or look for work. We are pushing for the full implementation of
the Agnculture and Fisheries Modemization Act, which seeks to move these sectors into the
21 century and to make them globally competitive. Our pro-poor bias is also manifest in
the emphasis we have placed on food security, and in our increased allocations for irrigation
facilities, farm-to-market roads, and post-harvest facilities. we have also expanded our support
of non-farm industries in the rural areas.
We are pounng a massive portion of our budget into education, which, more than any
other possible area of investment, is the foundation of future growth and progress. We are
restructuring our health programs to provide preferential attention to the indigents, among
others by lowering the price of medicines within a free market environment. We are
accelerating the land redistribution process under the agrarian reform program. we have
highly augmented the funds going to the local govemment units And, despite some well-
publicized slip-ups which we have corrected, we are placing top priority in low-cost and
socialized housing, first because shelter is a basic requirement of life, and second because



4      Chapter 1 The Manila Social Forum
housing construction itself is labor-intensive and has a high multiplier effect on the rest of
the economy.
lust as we create a demand for people through investments in physical capital, we
must also enhance the competencies of people through investments in human capital And
this we must do at a time of bewildenng change brought about by globalization, the constant
birth of new technologies, and the dynamic shifts in market tastes and preferences.
These changes pose a special challenge to education, since they continue to render a
wide range of traditional skills irrelevant, and their possessors redundant. We need to plan
our educational system to enable it to provide our people with competencies required by
tomorrow's enterprises, not just today's, and certainly not yesterday's. Education must consider
the future a moving target And as hunters would say, in hunting ducks in flight, the hunter
should aim at where the duck will be, not where it is, and certainly not where it has been.
Giving the poor access to health services, and providing them with an environment
conducive to health-including housing, water, sanitation, efficient sewerage, waste
management, and clean air-is essential in enhancing their productive capabilities.
Equity must not be limited to the present populations but extend across generations.
This is why the state must make sure that the markets cooperate with it in protecting the
environment as a whole, to make development sustainable way into the future
As the economy grows, more and more people benefit. But there will always be those
who will be left behind, excluded, displaced, and cast aside by the very process of
development. These must be cared for through the appropriate safety nets. There is no
reason why capitalism cannot be compassionate
LESSONS TO BE LEARNED FROM EAST ASIA
It is easy enough to say: leave the market alone. The East Asian expenence clearly
shows that economic growth is better served where markets are free, open, efficient, and
honest
On the other hand, by its very nature, it is impossible for the government to leave the
market alone. Whatever it does affects the market, for better or for worse. The policies,
projects, budgets, and operations of the government necessarily shape the market one way
or another One way is for government programs to promote growth in the aggregate, and
let the distributive process take care of itself. The other is to go for growth that is explicitly
pro-poor from its inception. pro-poor in its basic premises, in its design, and in its goals The
latter is the strategy and intent of my government. We explicitly call it a "pro-poor, pro-
market' strategy. The very fact that you are holding this forum shows that this is also becoming
the preferred option for the developing world at large.
William Penn once said: "It is a reproach to religion and government to suffer so much
poverty and excess." I am not sure I can speak for religion-I know certain quarters that
would be homfied if I tried to-but I can say "amen" to the reproach to government. For
growth and poverty reduction will succeed or fail depending on the quality of governance:
the soundness of policies, the maintenance of stability, the promulgation of justice, the
delivery of basic services, and the keeping of the peace. This is the type of environment that
allows markets to flourish
Perhaps the words of Henry George, the 19th century American economist, very well
sums up the underlying theme of this Manila Social Forum: "So long as all the increased
wealth which modem progress brings makes sharper the contrast between the House of
Have and the House of Want, progress is not real and cannot be permanent." In other words,
growth has no meaning unless it brings about the total redemption of the poor This is the
mission that we must all adopt.



I Severino: Operational Lessons and Challenges for Social Development in Asia  5
OPERATIONAL LESSONS AND CHALLENGES
FOR SoCIAL DEVELOPMENT IN ASIA3
By )ean-Michel Severino, Vice-President of the World Bank
INTRODUCTION
The Regional Meeting on Social Issues in Bangkok, in January 19994, saw the birth of a
new and significant common effort. It brought together key partners dedicated to the effort
to redress the social harm inflicted by Asias economic and financial crisis: national and
local governments, civil society organizations, International, bilateral and nongovernment
development actors, and academia. The Manila Social Forum rightly moved the focus from
this short-term, but crucial, concern-dealing with the crisis and mitigating its social impact-
to longer term priorities and questions: what should be the framework for new social policies
in a changing Asia? How can we together help establish the foundations of the new social
agenda that the people in the region need?
FROM BANGKOK TO MANILA: CHANGES IN THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL LANDSCAPE
The change in economic and social perspectives between the two large social policy
gatherings at Bangkok and Manila, only 10 months apart, tells a remarkable story. At the
beginning of 1999, the crisis still dominated discussions, and the future was uncertain. By
late 1999, all signs pointed to regional and national economies on the threshold of a solid
recovery In retrospect, it is clear that the recession in the five most affected countries of
East Asia bottomed out in 1998, and during 1999 output began to expand, at varying speeds
to be sure, in virtually all the major economies.
The lasting impact of the crisis appeared, in November 1999, to be less grave than
feared even 10 months earlier. The strength and resilience of the social fabric told the most
impressive story, but the remarkable efforts by national and local governments and civil
society organizations also played a major role in mitigating the social costs of the crisis.
Economic recovery had begun to show up in social indicators, particularly in unemployment
statistics. During 1999, remarkable progress was made in improving the knowledge base.
Last and not least, was a growing consensus around the belief that rapid growth cannot be
the primary safety net, and sole provider of jobs and income security in the future. The crisis
underscored that growth is a prerequisite for restoring incomes of the poor and the principal
vehicle for improvement in their welfare, but it is simply not enough For all these reasons,
the social agenda needs to be at the center of policy and of intemational cooperation for
East Asia in the future.
Hard facts were highlighted in Manila, in the presentations of many people operating
at national and community levels, and these tempered premature enthusiasm. A central
theme was a call to banish complacency. The crisis caused terrible direct damage and it
slowed momentum. It was the source of great suffering, across all strata of society, however,
3 This overview reflects the statements by lean-Michel Sevenno at the Manila Social Forum Mr Severino was, as the
former World Bank Vice-President for East Asia and the Pacific, deeply Involved in the partnership preparations of
the Manila Social Forum
The Bangkok Social Meeting was organized by the World Bank, In collaboration with the Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) it gathered some 200 participants from a wide range of organizations
One outcome was an agreement that a continuing social forum for East Asia, bringing together the partners,
should be maintained, based both on strengthened information systems (Including web sites and newsletters) and
on periodic meetings (notionally held at least once a year)



6      Chapter 1 The Manila Social Form
those most directly affected were the most vulnerable. It also eroded invaluable social capital
and community structures and resulted in sharp declines in middle-class standards of living
These effects will have a long-term impact, at the individual and collective levels. They have
also brought back into focus the central questions of distnbution and social cohesion. While
sustained economic growth is clearly the only viable engine driving poverty reduction, the
complex picture of social impact and indicators in the immediate post-crisis penod suggested
that much more attention was needed on issues of distribution the transmission mechanism
that connects the engine to the wheels.
A CHANGING ASIA: SEVEN FUNDAMENTAL ENGINES OF SOCIAL CHANGE
Asia has changed and is changing profoundly This basic message and reminder explains
the common theme, a central conclusion from Bangkok that shaped deliberations at Manila
the social policies for tomorrow must differ from the social policies of yesterday. it is useful
to sketch, rapidly, some of the profound forces that are bringing change, as a backdrop to
the discussion in this book. The central engine of rapid change is globalization. Globalization
of financial and goods markets has been an essential ingredient in the East Asian miracle,
and will continue to offer new opportunities and benefits to the emerging markets and
transition economies in Asia Nonetheless the crisis years in East Asia underlined how, without
proper safeguards and sound economic policies and institutions, the forces around
globalization expose developing countries to external shocks and increased volatility.
Six other major structural transformations, which need to be taken into account in
social policy formulation, are aging, urbanization, industrialization, democratization, the
rise of the middle-class, and decentralization/localization The rapid aging of the population
will have major implications for old-age security and for the profile and evolution of the
workforce Urbanization demands enormous new investments in services and transforms
social relations; it also is weakening traditional support and coping mechanisms and
increasing the number of vulnerable people who lack any support. A rise in non-agricultural
employment and the formal sector not only brings a greater need for better articulated
formal social policy but also a greater opportunity to provide it. The political transition
towards greater pluralism and participation may result in increased demands for a greater
government role in protecting the poor, the unemployed, the disabled, and other social
groups, but also in demands for greater accountability of the use of public resources The
emergence of an educated, powerful and vocal middle-class will fundamentally change the
way social policies have been designed and implemented so far Finally, localization, or
decentralization, increases expectations and demands from citizens and social actors and
changes social policy design and management.
CONSOUDATING THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE NEW SOCIAL MODEL IN A CHANGING ASIA:
CHALLENGES AHEAD
A central, and crucial, challenge ahead is inclusive and socially responsible
macroeconomics. Genuine human and social development can only be sustainable if it is
based on sound macroeconomic adjustment and structural policies. A broad-based, inclusive
recovery, ensuring that the poor participate in the income gains from economic reactivation,
is a key element of the new social agenda. Improving future crisis management to make it
more sensitive to the plight of the poor, the workers, and the most vulnerable groups in the
policy mix and patterns of public spending is a central lesson The relations between economic
and social policies are not linear but circular. sound economic policies cannot be sustained
if 'patent inequity" is left unaddressed.
A second challenge is to deal better with risks and the uncertainties that accompany
globalization. The East Asia crisis highlighted the need to give much more attention to risks



I Sevenno: Operational Lessons and Challenges for Social Development in Asia  7
and avoiding painful shocks. The severity of the banking crisis was a lesson. This challenge
calls for improved national safety nets (work-fare programs, scholarships, food distribution,
etc.) and social insurance programs (unemployment insurance if the country can afford it;
pensions, etc.). it also involves efforts to bolster community and informal family-based safety
nets
A third challenge is improved governance and social infrastructure Sound and caring
social policies in the region rely on stronger and more transparent legal, institutional and
public infrastructure. This calls for a predictable and enforced legal system that is both
conducive to attracting foreign investment and protecting individual freedoms and workers'
fundamental rights. It also implies improving the quality of the public sector, a modernized
industrial relations system, mechanisms for greater accountability and transparency
everywhere in the society and a everlasting war against corruption. The World Bank has
committed itself to join concemed governments to fight corruption wherever it is found and
is moving vigorously forward with a broad-based anti-corruption agenda in the region.
Establishing an integrated social policy framework is a fourth and difficult challenge.
Decisions taken in one area of social policy have important implications in the other areas:
there is a delicate and fine-tuned social policy mix that has to be better understood and
managed. This integrated approach to social policies and poverty reduction in the region
has, however, been sadly lacking to date. Today, Asia urgently needs a framework that
brings synergy between the different social policy instruments, a framework that binds
together rural development, human capital investments in health and education, urban
development initiatives to create livable and workable cities, and social risk management
instruments such as active and passive labor market policies, old-age policies and social
assistance policies.
Bringing the weakest and the most vulnerable from the margins of the society to the
center stage is the last fundamental challenge. This is what Jim Wolfensohn called 'the
challenge of inclusion" two years ago at the World Bank/International Monetary Fund (IMF)
Annual Meetings in Hong Kong, China. This is what is needed to ensure that the voices of
the poor, their experiences, priorities and recommendations, are always taken into account.
And the poor tell us that they care about their material well-being, their physical well-being,
their security, their freedom of choice and action, and their social relations
A large and complex component of the social agenda is thus about empowerment It is
about people helping themselves It is about how to achieve social solidarity and cohesion
through first enabling individuals and families to support themselves. A related challenge is
of course to make sure that the "voices" of more organized social actors, crucial actors from
an historical point of view, such as trade unions, employers, nongovemment organizations
(NGOs), are central in the design of national and local social policies
THREE KEY ISSUES ON THE SOCIAL AGENDA
The responsibilities of the private sector pose a first set of issues that we still need to
address. Private sector involvement is key to any modem and effective social policy, especially
in this region where growth has been built on remarkable private sector initiatives. Private
sector engagement is crucial to effective social services delivery, social policy financing,
social innovations, and high quality of services But how can we best enhance the social
role of the private sector, promote social responsibility of private firms, and encourage socially
conscious individuals? There is no easy answer but the partners to the Manila Social Forum
can and should address this question as a priority.
A second issue deals with the relations between poverty alleviation, a fundamental
and common objective, and the new social agenda. Social policies, in Asia as well as in



8      Chapter 1. The Manila Social Forum
Europe and in the United States, have broader objectives than poverty reduction and they
have emerged as a central focus across the political arena because of the support of the
working classes and then the middle class. Given that resources are limited and pressures
come from all segments of society, notably those best organized and closest to decision-
makers, how do we keep the focus on the very poor, while ensuring a clear and sustainable
focus also on the broader social agenda? How can we deal with the contradictions that
sometimes present themselves between a focus on the poor and the key role of the middle
class as taxpayers and voters9 Respect for cultural diversity and traditional values in
implementing modem social policies is a third, also very difficult issue. Every policy and
agenda must be specifically tailored to the cultural environment of the country where it is
implemented. Hence the new social agenda has to be designed for each country concerned,
reflecting its culture, social character, and history.
Cultural diversity in Asia is indeed an enormous asset. However a major issue is to
determine how modern, comprehensive and effective social policies can be established,
building on existing community ties and family values and incorporating lessons from
worldwide thinking, expenence, and best practice.
We set ourselves a key and very difficult challenge at Bangkok, reinforced at Manila to
measure explicitly and better social achievements and our own performance in advancing
them. Setting and monitoring indicators using participatory processes is a key element of
any effective poverty reduction strategy and sound and sustainable social policy Measuring
and assessing our performance is also and always an imperative if we want to improve our
work and be truly accountable for what we do. Having said that, the issue of measurement
poses a host of difficult problems, in particular to deternine what the best indicators are.
CONCLUSION
At national level, coalitions with governments, civil society, the pnvate sector, academia,
trade unions, foundations and religions are central in building a new social model. At regional
level, coalitions to promote a common vision of social development with organizations
such as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and APEC, are also fundamental.
Finally, coalitions and partnerships at international level are needed more than ever
before. joining forces with ADB here is a particular pleasure. The impact of the crisis, coupled
with the implications of globalization, have made it clear that multilateral banks need to be
more active in the region in the social sectors. That is why a stronger alliance between the
World Bank and ADB is needed. The comprehensive development framework (CDF) that is
much discussed in the region, highlights ways to enhance institutional cooperation. With
the key partnership of UN organizations, in particular the Intemational Labour Organization
(ILO), World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), and United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), let us make the new
social agenda a solid basis for new intemational strategic partnerships.



The
2          Social Impact
of the Asian Crisis
THE FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CPSIS IN ASIA:
CAUSES AND LONG-TERM IMPLICATIONS5
INTRODUCTION
For more than three decades, the countries of East Asia were models of economic
development. Between 1960 and 1990, real per capita income in the region rose by an
average of 4-6 percent per annum, about three times as fast as Latin America and South
Asia, and five times faster than Sub-Saharan Afnca Dunng this period, several of the East
Asian economies were transformed from primarily agricultural to newly industrialized
economies. The number of people living in absolute poverty (defined as $1 per day) dropped
by half, from 720 million to 350 million and life expectancy increased from 56 years in 1961
to 71 years in 1990.
This pattern of growth came to a crashing halt in 1997 with a currency cnsis in Thailand
that spread to other countries in the region. The currency troubles quickly developed into a
full-fledged financial and economic crisis. Within slightly more than a year, the contagion
had spread across developing countries and global capital markets. The severity of what is
now known as the Asian Crisis is unprecedented In recent times, and took the international
community by surprise. As a result, important questions have been raised regarding the
causes of the crisis, the role of the intemational Monetary Fund (IMF), and the financial
architecture of international capital markets. This chapter reviews the principle causes of
the Asian Crisis and discusses its implications for long-term economic development in the
region.
CURRENCY ATTACKS AND THE CRISIS
The Asian crisis was triggered by attacks on currencies in the region. The Thai baht was
by all accounts the first to come under heavy selling pressure, reportedly as early as July
1996, following the collapse of the Bangkok Bank of Commerce, and the subsequent injection
of liquidity by the Bank of Thailand to support the financial system. More serious pressure
on the baht was exerted in late 1996 and early 1997 At the same time, increasing concems
about nonperforming assets (NPAs) in the financial sector, and poor fiscal and export data
for fourth quarter 1996, were emerging.
The problems in Thailand and the rapid depreciation of the baht drew the attention of
banks and investment funds to the conditions of other countries in the region. Soon the
currencies of Hong Kong, China; Indonesia; Republic of Korea; Malaysia; Philippines; and
Taipei,China also came under speculative attack. Within months, what had started as a
series of speculative currency attacks and exchange-rate corrections quickly intensified
into a regional currency and financial crisis that took on global dimensions. The speed with
which the effects of the crisis were felt is illustrated by the timing of currency and stock
depreciations in the affected countries.
This paper was written by Justin Yifu Lin Mr Lln is Professor at the Peking University and at the Hong Kong
University of Science and Technology



10      Chapter 21: Economic and Social Implications of the Asian Crisis
* By the end of 1997, the Thai baht had dropped to about half of its June level and its
stock market index fell by more than 20 percent
* By January 1998, the Indonesian rupiah had lost more than 80 percent of its July 1997
value and the stock market index had dropped by more than 75 percent
* In Malaysia the ringgit had depreciated by more than 45 percent and the stock market
index had fallen by about 50 percent by January 1998
* In the Philippines, by end 1997, the peso had depreciated by about 35 percent from
July, and the stock market index had fallen by about 20 percent.
* In Taipei,China, despite its strong economic indicators, the NT dollar depreciated by 15
percent by the end of 1997. The stock market index fell by 30 percent during September
to mid-October in response to concems about currency depreciation.
* Despite the fact that Hong Kong, China had exchange reserves of about $90 billion in
1997, and a well-regulated financial sector, the stock market index fell by about 60
percent from its height in mid 1997.
* By January 1998, the Singapore dollar had dropped by 20 percent and the stock market
index had fallen by 30 percent, despite substantial exchange reserves
* In the Republic of Korea the won dropped by 50 percent in the five weeks from end of
October to the end of December 1997 The stock market dropped by more than 40
percent between mid-1 997 and the end of the year.
During the crisis, the Indonesian, Republic of Korea and Thai Govemments requested
the IMF to arrange rescue packages to meet their short-term debt servicing obligations, and
were forced to implement painful and controversial structural and institutional reforms
Real gross domestic product (GDP) growth in the region slowed significantly in the
crisis Output in the industrial production of the severely hit economies was about 25 percent
below what it had been just a year earlier Even after exchange rates started stabilizing,
growth in most economies in the region remained sluggish and substantially below the pre-
crisis trend. A number of factors contnbuted to the poor growth performance.
* Domestic corporations' access to financing was severely reduced as a result of continuing
problems in the financial sectors and of the withdrawal of international capital.
(Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand had together recorded
a total net private capital outflow of $11 billion in 1997, as compared to a total net
capital inflow $72.9 billion in 1996).
* High interest rates and austerity budgets set either by the IMF or by the governments
themselves in order to defend their currencies severely affected economic performance.
* A marked negative wealth effect brought about by sharp drops in stock and property
pnces significantly dampened aggregate demand
In addition to the slowdown in economic growth rate, the unemployment rate in the
Republic of Korea increased from 2 percent in 1996 to 6.8 percent in 1998, from 2 percent to
6 5 percent in Thailand, and shockingly from 2.3 percent to 17.1 percent in Indonesia in the
same period. The urban poor workers that lost their jobs were the worse affected group.
Meanwhile, many corporations became bankrupt, leading to losses of social and
organizational capital
However, it is interesting to note that the severity of the crisis differed greatly among
East Asian economies. Indonesia, Republic of Korea, and Thailand were the hardest-hit



I Lin: Long Term Implications of the Asian Financial and Economic Crisis  11
countries. In addition to the devaluation, banking crisis, and depression, they also had a
payment crisis and required rescues from international organizations to meet their short-
term payment obligations. The rescue packages came with controversial conditionalities.
Malaysia also had a sharp devaluation, banking crisis, and depression during the crisis but
it did not have to seek international rescue to meet its short-term payment obligations.
Singapore's currency devalued but its GDP growth rate was 1.5 percent in 1998. The
Philippines' GDP declined only slightly in 1998, by -0.5 percent. In spite of several speculative
attacks on Hong Kong, China's currency, it was able to maintain its peg to the US dollar,
although its real GDP had a -5.1 percent growth rate in 1998. Thapei, China had a moderate
devaluation of 15 percent in 1997 but its real GDP maintained positive growth throughout
the crisis and reach 4.8 percent in 1998. Finally, the PRC did not devalue its currency and
maintained 7.8 percent growth rate during the crisis.
UNDERLYING CAUSES OF THE CRISIS
The Asian crisis' distinctive feature was its rapid development from initial speculative
currency attacks into a full-scale financial, economic, and social crisis, and the subsequent
widespread contagion across the region and beyond. The vulnerability of the Asian economies
was largely unexpected in view of their solid growth record during the past decade,
particularly in the cases of Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, and Thailand.
The sudden and wide contagion of the crisis can only be understood in light of the
integration and intrinsic instability of international financial markets. Without this factor,
the extent and severity of the crisis cannot be adequately explained. Technological changes
have greatly reduced the costs in transportation and communication and become a driving
force for global integration. Between 1985 and 1 994, the average annual growth rate of real
GDP of the world as a whole was 3.2 percent, and international trade increased twice as fast,
reaching 6.7 percent per year. Gross capital flows expanded even faster, increasing at 14.3
percent per year for direct foreign investment and 12 percent for international bank loans.
Asian economies were among the largest beneficiaries of intemational financial integration.
Total net private capital inflows to Asia were $19.1 billion in 1990, increasing to $110.4
billion in 1996. However, due to the following factors, the international financial markets are
intrinsically unstable:
Sudden Shifts In Market Expectations and Confidence
Many intemational lenders and investors were either new to Asia or only significantly
expanded their exposure in the area in the 1990s. They had built up expectations and
confidence aboutAsian countries and borrowers during this period without having conducted
sufficient due diligence. Once the weaknesses in the economies and institutions became
known, their expectations shifted suddenly, leading to widespread panic and massive
withdrawals of capital. IMF statistics show that in 1996, total net private capital inflows into
Asia reached a record high of $110.4 billion, of which the five most affected countries
accounted for $72.9 billion. In 1997, net private capital inflows to Asia dropped to $13.9
billion. The five most affected countries experienced a net outflow of $11 billion. Only a
significant net inflow of official loans to these countries, plus continued net inflows of foreign
direct investments and portfolio investments, were able to partially offset a net outflow of
$32.3 billion in the other areas (primarily bank loans).
Advances In Capital Market Technology and Financial Products
One factor contributing to instability in capital markets is technological advancement
The application of technology in the markets and the globalization of financial institutions
has allowed players in international capital markets to move substantial amounts of funds
across borders and around the world almost instantly, thus creating the possibility of



1 2     Chapter 21. Economic and Social Implications of the Asian Crfsis
massively disrupting the markets. In addition, new financial products, such as derivatives,
have flounshed in recent years. While these new products allow participants to reduce risk,
they can also create exposures that make them more vulnerable. They also provide more
opportunities for speculation in the market and can contribute to its instability. Prior to the
onset of the crisis, the widespread application of many of these products with banks, clients,
and even regulators lacking a clear understanding of the extent of the possible risks involved
increased to unprecedented levels the magnitude of risk in the markets.
Extensive Use of Leverage
The frequent and often extensive use of leverage allowed market participants to take
large positions in the market, and contributed to market instability. Leverage was widely
used in the Asian and global capital markets A prominent example of the extent of risks
involved was the case of Long-Term Capital Management LP (LTCM) in the Republic of Korea
which was reported to have leveraged by more than 20 times Largely as a result of this level
of leverage, the magnitude of LTCM's market positions was such that there was senous
concem as to whether its collapse or any uncontrolled unwinding of its positions would
trigger a system risk in global financial markets. As a result, a $4 billion rescue package had
to be put in place in September 1998 to ensure its continued survival. A subsequent report
commissioned by the US Government in the aftermath of the LTCM incident revealed that
hedge funds were not alone in using leverages extensively. The report estimated the leverage
levels of the top five US investment banks to average 27 times, even higher than that of
LTCM.
The above intnnsic instability of the integrated international financial market made
the swift contagion of any financial cnsis possible. However, the start and the differences in
the severity of crisis in each individual economy can only be explained by the fundamental
weaknesses of each individual economy. With hindsight, it has started to become apparent
that weaknesses at both the macroeconomic and the microeconomic levels were emerging
towards the mid-1 990s in the crisis-hit economies. Some of the key weaknesses were as
follows
Deteriorating Terms of Trade and Emerging Current Account Deficits
Trade has been a major source of growth among Asian countnes Trade increased
considerably in East Asia over the three decades prior to the crisis. As a share of GDP, trade
rose from 15 percent in 1970 to more than 50 percent in 1995. Exports reached a peak
during first quarter of 1995 Export growth (in US dollars) reached more than 20 percent in
Republic of Korea, Malaysia, and Thailand, and 12 percent in Indonesia. Starting in the latter
part of 1995, however, growth began to decelerate rapidly. By 1996, export growth had
slowed to 4 percent for Republic of Korea, 6 percent for Malaysia, and 9 percent for Indonesia,
and it actually contracted 1 percent in Thailand. By 1996, current-account deficits reached
about 3 percent of GDP in Indonesia, about 5 percent in the Republic of Korea, about 6
percent in Malaysia, and about 9 percent in Thailand (although Malaysia and Thailand had
already experienced large current-account deficits during the past decade). However, as
Table 1 shows, economies that were less affected by the crisis, such as PRC, Singapore, and
Taipei,China, all had better performances in the current account balance of payments.



I Lin. Long TMirm Implications of the Asian Financial and Economic Crisis  1 3
Table 1: Balance of Payment on Current Account ($ million)
Economy           1992       1993       1994       1995       1996      1997
PRC               6,401     -11,609     6,908      1,618      7,243    20,000
Indonesia        -2,780      -1,944    -2,790     -6,431     -7,660    -5,713
Korea, Rep of     -3,939     1,016     -3,855     -8,250    -23,061    -8,840
Malaysia          -2,167     -2,991    -4,520     -7,362     -4,964    -5,384
Philippines        -858      -3,016    -2,950     -3,287     -3,914    -4,328
Singapore         5,653      4,417     12,226     14,449     14,283    14,630
Thipei,China      8,547      7,042      6,498      5,474     11,027     7,721
Thailand         -6,304      -6,364    -7,802    -13,207    -14,351    -6,272
Source: own compilation
Increasing Reliance on Global Capital Markets to Finance Growth
The fast growth of the Asian economies during the period 1990-1997 coincided with
the rapid expansion of global capital markets and the increasing flow of capital to the
emerging markets. Dunng the same period, the volume of private capital flows to developing
countnes rose from $42 billion in 1990 to $256 billion in 1997, growing by nearly 30 percent
annually IMF sources revealed that net private capital inflow for the five most affected
Asian countries rose from $24.9 billion in 1990 to $35 1 billion in 1994, and then rapidly
expanded to $62.9 billion in 1995 and $72.9 billion in 1996. As shown in Table 2, the hard-
hit economies relied much more heavily on the foreign debt to finance its growth than the
slightly-hit economies.
Table 2: Foreign Debt as a Percent of GDP
Economy              1990    1991    1992     1993     1994    1995     1996
PRC                 14 26    14.84   14.99    14 35    18 38   16.60    15.44
Hong Kong, China    16.80    14.84   14.99    14.35    18.38   16.60    15.44
Indonesia           65 89    68 21   68.74    56.44    60.96   61.54    56.74
Korea, Rep. of      1379     1351    14.34    1418     14.32   23.80    28.40
Malaysia            35.80    35.48   34.51    40 74    40.40   39 31    40.06
Philippines         69.02    71.45   62.29    66 09    62.42   53.21    49 75
Singapore           11 23    11.07    9.47     9.45    10.79    9.84    10 74
Taipei,China        11.04    10 73    9 37    10.44    10.87   1040     10.07
Thailand            32.80    38 38   37 51    34.10    33.31   33.78    50 05
Source own compilation.
High Short-tenm Debt to Foreign Reserve Ratio
The effective peg of most Asian currencies to the dollar encouraged short-term ana
often unhedged borrowings The high weighting of short-term foreign bank debt within this
capital inflow rendered the economies vulnerable to any sudden reversal. One indication of
this vulnerability was the ratio of short-term foreign debt to foreign-currency reserves, as
shown in Table 3. The three countnes that needed to seek international rescues were the
countries with the highest short-term debt to foreign reserve ratio, the Republic of Korea
reaching 203.23 percent, Indonesia 176.59 percent, and Thailand 99.69 percent in 1996.
Therefore, when the reversal in the international capital flow occurred, these three countries
were unable to meet their debt servicing obligations and to accept the rescue packages
from the IMF.



14       Chapter 2 1. Economk and Social Implications of the Asian Crfsts
Table 3: Short-term Debt as Percent of Foreign Reserve
Economy               1990    1991   1992     1993    1994    1995    1996
PRC                  31.49   24 68   66 76   68.33    33.04   29.62   23.74
Hong Kong, China     23.52   21.78   18.38   17.09    16.49   14.16   22.35
Indonesia           149.28   154 62  172 81  159 70  160.36  189.42  176.59
Korea, Rep of        7213    8175    6962    6031     5406   17145   203.23
Malaysia             19 54   19 05   21.12   25 51    24.34   30 60   40.98
Philippines         479.11  152.31  119 37   107.68   95.00   82 85   79.45
Singapore             2.65    2 67    2.35    2.04     1.75    1 78    2 60
Taipei,China         21.56   20.21   21 00    2364    21.76   21 64   21.31
Thailand             62 55   71.31   72 34    92 49   9948   114 21   99.69
Source. own compllation
Inadequate Regulation and Supervision In the Financial Sector
A large portion of the capital inflow from international markets was intermediated
through domestic banking systems, particularly in the Republic of Korea, and Thailand,
where financial institutions had borrowed heavily in foreign currencies. Asian countries had
generally implemented financial reforms in order to cope with the requirements of rapid
economic growth However, significant weaknesses continued to plague the regulatory and
supervisory areas. Financial institution governance was weak, often leading to heavy direct
or indirect influences by government policies. In addition, the institutional development of
the financial sector was general lagging behind. Much of the credit was either evaluated on
a collateral rather than a cash-flow basis, or provided on the basis of the borrowers'
relationships to governments or bank owners. Against this background of weak regulatory
and supervisory frameworks and loose market discipline, some of the countries' attempts at
liberalizing their financial sectors actually left the sector exposed to the instabilities of the
international financial markets and rendered it even more vulnerable.
Bubble in Stock Market and Real Estate Sector
The combination of financial-sector liberalization and international capital inflows led
to high liquidity and rapid credit expansion in many Asian countries, where the rapid credit
expansion had led to overinvestment and to speculation in the real estate sector as well as
in stock markets in the early 1990s
Thailand is a good example. In the 1990s, Thai finance companies mainly used loans
borrowed from foreign financial institutions to sharply accelerate their lending to the real
estate and property sector and drove up the stock and real estate prices. In Malaysia, the
banking problems were less senous until 1995 However, there was an overall increase in
bank lending by 27 6 percent, with a sharp switch from lending to the manufacturing sector
to lending for equity purchases. The growth rate of former dropped from 30.7 percent in
1995 to 14 percent in 1996 and the latter from 4 percent in 1995 to 20.1 percent in 1996.
The increased availability of loans sharp drove up asset prices in 1 996. When the stock and
real estate declined many of the bank loans, collaborated by stocks and real estates, become
bad loans and made the banking systems very fragile.
High Leverage Among Corporations
Another distinguishing feature of the hard-hit countries in the crisis was their
corporations' high level of leverage, as shown in Table 4.



I Lin: Long Term Implications of the Asian Financial and Economic Crisis  1 5
Table 4: Debt to Equity Ratio In 1996
Economy                 Mean       Median
Hong Kong, China        1.56        1.42
Indonesia               1.88        1.83
Korea, Rep. of          3.55        3.25
Malaysia                118         0.90
Philippines             1 29        0.93
Singapore               1 05        0 81
Thlpei,China            0 80        0 74
Thailand                2.36        1.85
Source. own compilation.
The high leverage ratios within the corporate sector in the hard-hit countries were in
many ways the outcome of these countries' growth strategies and government policies. The
countries generally pursued aggressive capital intensive and/or export-oriented strategies
as the basis for economic growth. The capital intensive industries and/or exporters were
often provided with incentives such as credit facilities, subsidized loans, and tax breaks.
This was most prominent in the case of the Republic of Korea, where corporate leverage
levels were generally the highest. A World Bank study in 1993 reported that in order to
promote the heavy and chemical industries, for example, the Republic of Korea Government
provided high levels of tax exemptions and directed banks to extend preferential policy
loans to the sector. It was estimated that during the height of the govemment's promotion
effort in 1977, 45 percent of the total domestic credit of the banking system (which was at
that time substantially owned and controlled by the Government) was directed towards
supporting the heavy- and chemical-industry sector. Even though the promotion was later
abandoned during 1979-1981 policy-related lending continued within the banking sector.
it has been estimated that in 1993, about 40 percent of total domestic credit in the Republic
of Korea was still policy related. The exporters' retained earnings were often, too low to
adequately fund their increasing financing needs as they expanded and upgraded equipment
in order to move up the technology ladder and remain competitive in global markets As a
result, the banking sector served primarily as a funding channel for exporters, corporations
had to borrow increasingly larger amounts of bank debt and sharply raise their leverage
levels.
LESSONS LEARNED
in the three decades before the recent financial crisis, the East Asian economies' export-
onented market-friendly development strategy was claimed to be an underdeveloped
economys model for economic development. The unexpected East Asian financial crisis
has prompted us to rethink whether the model is appropriate, especially in view of the
intrinsic instability of the global financial market.
Admittedly, growth in the East Asian economies in recent years has been fuelled to a
large extent by the inflow of intemational capital as the globalization of capital markets has
gathered momentum. While this enabled the economies to keep up their fast pace of growth,
it also rendered them vulnerable to the ebb and flow of international capital. A massive
withdrawal of foreign capital could create a widespread financial and economic crisis. From
this experience, a number of lessons can be drawn.
Foreign direct investment, which is relatively stable, is more favorable than short-term
capital flow, which is very volatile. Moreover, foreign direct investment in most cases
comes with a package of management expertise, technical human capital, product



1 6     Chapter 2 1. Economic and Social Implications of the Asian Crisis
and process technologies, and overseas marketing channel. All of those accompanying
factors are as important for economic development as the funds themselves. Therefore,
when an economy liberalizes its financial market, it is imperative to create a policy
framework, that encourages foreign direct investment and long-term capital inflow
and discourages short-term loans.
Many of the short-term capital inflows in hard-hit economies were used to finance the
investment in stock and real estate markets, causing overheating in these markets. If
the banks are allowed to use a large portion of loans to finance stock and real estate
investments, any bursting of stock and real estate bubble will cause the loans to become
bad and make the banking system fragile. Besides a banking crisis, it may reverse
internal capital flows and tngger a currency crisis To prevent bubbles and financial
crises, it is important for an economy to strengthen banking regulation and supervision
over bank loans when an economy liberalizes its capital markets.
Globalization of financial markets is a trend However, facing the same intrinsic instability
of the international financial markets, Hong Kong, China, Singapore; and Taipei,China were
only mildly affected by the crisis In addition to their better banking supervision and
regulations, these three economies share some common charactenstics- first, their trade
and current account balances were in surplus in the 1 990s (see Table 1), second, their foreign
debt to GDP ratios were low (see Table 2); and third, the stock of their foreign reserves was
relatively large and their short-term debt to foreign reserve ratios were comparatively low
(see Table 3)
The East Asian economies all pursued an open, outward-onented development strategy.
Why did Hong Kong, China; Singapore; and Taipei,China possess the above three
characteristics whereas the other hard-hit economies did not, although they all followed a
seemingly similar strategy? The key may lie in these three economies' better observation of
their economies' comparative advantages
Openness and outward orientation in these three economies were a way to make full
use of their economies' comparative advantages instead of being an end in itself. Because
their development followed more closely along the lines of their comparative advantages,
their firms/industries would be more competitive in the intemational markets. Therefore,
their economies had a better balance of payment performance and had larger stocks of
foreign exchange reserves. Their firms would also be more profitable in domestic and
international markets When their firms engaged in expansions and/or technological
upgrading, they could rely more on own accumulated profits and less on external funding
to finance the projects. Therefore, their firms had less leverage and their economies had less
external debts.
In contrast, the hard-hit economies seemed to take the outward-orientation as a goal
by itself and develop their economies beyond what determined by their economies'
comparative advantages Therefore, although they exported large portions of their GDP,
their industries were not competitive in the international markets and current account
surpluses were small or negative. The profits of their firms were low and the upgrading or
expansions of their firms relied heavily on external financing, resulting in high leverage and
large external debt. Moreover, the industries that are not consistent with an economy's
comparative advantages are not viable. To support the development of nonviable industnes,
the governments need to intervene directly in the allocation of financial resources and
provide other administrative supports as well to firms in the industries, opening the door for
all kinds of rent-seeking behavior The cronyism observed in the hard-hit economies was a
result of the governments intervention in the resources allocation.



I Lin: Long Term Implications of the Asian Frnancial and Economic Crisis  1 7
In an open economy, intemational capital markets are quick to punish countries that
pursue policies that are perceived to be incompatible with macroeconomic sustainability
For an economy to develop along the lines of its comparative advantages, the main policies
are a liberalized market system so that prices can fully reflect the relative scarcity of a factor
of production, and an information-providing, rule setting/enforcing, and externalities
compensating government. Such policies will contribute to macroeconomic stability and
sustainability. Moreover, if a densely populated economy develops along the lines of its
comparative advantages, labor-intensive industries will be developed first and upgrade to
more capital-intensive industries only when the resource endowment structure upgrades.
Such a development path will create more jobs to absorb the large labor resources, resulting
in a favorable income distribution, reduced social cleavage, and contributing to political
stability, which is also essential for the successful development of an economy.
It was a trend after World War 11 for developing countries to adopt a certain type of
development strategy, such as development that was heavy industry-oriented and relied
on import-substitution, which attempted to leapfrog the industrial structure determined by
the economy's comparative advantage. Therefore, there are many policy legacies in the
developing countries, which make their economies vulnerable to a sudden liberalization,
especially capital market liberalization. Institutional reforms and strengthening are necessary
for those countries' development However, the pace and sequencing of reforms should be
determined by each country's particular situation. The PRC is a case in point The reason
that the PRC was able to maintain its exchange rate and a high growth rate during the Asian
financial crisis was because its currency was not convertible and its capital account was
not liberalized Therefore, the PRC was able to insulate itself from the contagion and shield
itself from speculative attacks
Finally, financial crisis may not be completely predictable and be preventable. When a
crisis occurs, in general the urban poor suffer the most Therefore, governments must adopt
alleviation policies aimed at the poor during such crises.



1 8      Chapter 2 1. Economic and Social Implications of the Asian Crisis
THE DEEPER CPISIS: SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES
OF THE FINANCIAL CRIsis IN ASIA6
INTRODUCTION
The Asian financial crisis quickly led to marked contractions in GDP and employment
in the affected economies. GDP shrinkages in 1998 ranged from nearly 14 percent in Indonesia
to 0.5 percent in the Philippines In tum, these resulted in adverse social consequences.
Although there are signs that the worst of the financial crisis is over, the social impacts can
be expected to persist long after the crisis economies will have retumed to solid growth.
This paper derives from a study that assesses the social impact of the crisis, based on
data drawn from available recent surveys, and supplemented by primary information
gathered from local communities and households using participatory methods.7 The countries
included in the study are Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic
(Lao PDR), Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand. The social impacts of the cnsis can be gauged
mainly in terms of changes in prices and assets, employment, incomes, income distnbution
and poverty, education, health, social capital, and environment
SOCIAL IMPACT
Prices and Assets
The currency devaluations that signaled the onset of the crisis exerted an almost
immediate upward pressure on the prices of imported goods and services or goods with a
high import content While inflation was moderated in some cases by government subsidies,
price controls, and by additional imports of necessities, inflation skyrocketed in most Asian
countries. For example, Indonesia's consumer price index lumped to nearly 60 percent in
1998 from 6.6 percent in the previous year In Lao PDR, inflation hit 90 percent, while in the
Republic of Korea it climbed to 7 5 in 1998 percent from the previous year's 4.5 percent
Since food prices generally increased more rapidly than non-food pnces, the impact of
inflation was harsher on the poor. Inflation not only clipped purchasing power but, along
with the collapse of stock markets and banks, also drastically reduced the real value of the
lifetime savings of households.
Employment and Incomes
Unemployment rates increased in all countnes, with the largest increase recorded in
the Republic of Korea, from 2.3 percent in 1997 to 7.4 percent in 1998 In the Philippines,
unemployment rose from 7.9 to 9.6 percent, and in Malaysia, 2.5 to 3.9 percent. However,
the unemployment rate can be a misleading indicator, particularly during a crisis because it
does not reflect dropouts from the labor force (also referred to as discouraged workers). In
the Republic of Korea, for example, changes in unemployment rates give the appearance
that males were more adversely affected than females (i.e., male unemployment rate increased
from 2.8 to 7.7 percent while female unemployment rate increased from 2.3 to 5.6 percent).
However, female labor force participants declined by 3.8 percent, while the male labor force
increased by 1 percent (Moon, Lee, and Yoo, 1999).
6 This paper was presented at the Manila social Forum by Ernesto M Pemia, Lead Economist of the Asian Development
Bank In Manila, Philippines
Pemia and Knowles (1998) and Knowles, Pemia, and Racelis (1999), based on an ADB regional technical assistance
study (RETA 5799)



E Pemnia. Social Consequences of the Financial Cnsis In Asia  1 9
Chart 1: Percentage Changes in Real Eamings Per Worker, 1997-1998
0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
.5 ~  ~        ~      ~       O.
*1520                                   *05
-20 5
-25   ]                      - - - - - -  - - -    - 7g~~~'~________
-30  _  ,-_ _____ ____  ,              __ _ __  _r   _--
Thailand'      Indonesia     Korea, Rep. of  Malaysia
*wet season (August)
Sources. Pongsapich and Bnmble (1999). Sgit and Surbakti (1999), Moon, et a], (1999) and Piei (1999)
Decreases in real eamings have occurred in all countries and have been more important
in labor market adjustment during the crisis than either unemployment or decreases in the
number of hours worked. The negative employment and eamings effect has been typically
more severe in urban areas than in the countryside. Moreover, the crisis has affected some
regions more than others. In Indonesia, it is clear that the impact of the crisis was worse in
Java, where about two thirds of the population live and which was previously relatively
prosperous. In Thailand, the impact has been much worse in the relatively poor Northeast
region, although part of the problem there can be linked to drought.
The construction sector and, to a lesser extent, the manufacturing sector were negatively
affected in all countries. By contrast, employment increased in the agriculture and service
sectors in many countries In Lao PDR, there is evidence that the steep currency devaluation
led to an agricultural boom, with Lao farmers exporting large quantities of their relatively
inexpensive produce to Thailand through informal channels (Chamberlain, 1999) The informal
sector share of total employment increased in Indonesia and the Republic of Korea, but it
decreased in Thailand
The gender employment impact of the crisis is not completely clear Although women
fared significantly worse in the Republic of Korea, and probably also in the Philippines and
Thailand, the picture is mixed in the other countries. In Indonesia, for example, the female
unemployment rate appears to have increased by 14 percent between 1997 and 1998,
compared with a 27 percent increase among males, while female employment increased by
4 2 percent, compared with a 1.7 percent rise among males (Sigit and Surbakti, 1999).
Nevertheless, these comparisons do not reflect the additional burdens that women continued
to carry beyond the workplace
Youth (ages 15-29) have been most negatively affected by the employment and earnings
impact of the crisis. In the Republic of Korea, employment declined by more than 14 percent
among persons ages 15-29, while it declined by less than 1 percent among those ages 30-
49 (Moon, Lee, and Yoo, 1999) Elderly workers were also more negatively affected in Indonesia
and the Republic of Korea, and probably also in Thailand, but they appear to have fared



20       Chapter 21. Economic and Social Implications of the Asian Crisis
relatively well in the Philippines More educated workers have been less hurt by the crisis in
Republic of Korea, Philippines, and Thailand, while the available evidence is conflicting in
Indonesia.
The number of migrant workers leaving Indonesia increased by 392 percent, and the
value of remittances flowing into the country also rose sharply (171 percent) between 1997
and 1998 For the Philippines, departing migrant workers rose by only 1 percent compared
with a 13 percent increase in the previous period, while the dollar value of remittances fell
by 13 percent. Meanwhile, the predominantly labor-importing countnes of Republic of Korea,
Malaysia, and Thailand used various measures to encourage the repatriation of illegal migrant
workers.
Real per capita household income declined between 1997 and 1998 by 20 percent in
the Republic of Korea, and by 12 percent in the Philippines. In Indonesia, real per capita
household expenditure fell by 24 percent.
it is likely that the crisis has also significantly affected some forms of non-labor income
Interest income has probably been affected, positively by the steep interest rates used by
central banks to stabilize exchange rates, and negatively by the failure of many financial
institutions and corporate borrowers to meet interest payments. Rental income has also
probably been reduced by low occupancy rates and by the inability of many tenants to pay
their rent. Profits and other forms of business income, which tend to be very sensitive to
cyclical fluctuations in business activity, probably also declined sharply
Income Inequality and Poverty
Income inequality appears to have increased in some countries in conjunction with
the crisis. The income share of the rich has increased from 20.5 to 22.5 percent in Thailand,
from 22 to 24.5 percent in the Republic of Korea, and from 39.3 to 42.9 percent in the
Philippines. By contrast, in Indonesia, data on changes in household expenditure suggest
that the size distnbution of income has improved.
Poverty incidence has also increased in the crisis countries In Indonesia, poverty
increased sharply from 11 percent in 1996 to 1997 to 24 percent in 1998 to 1999, but much
less than many had predicted In the Republic of Korea, the poverty rate more than doubled,
from 3 to 7.5 percent.8
The intra-country regional distribution of income has also been affected by the crisis. In
Thailand, metropolitan Bangkok and the Central region improved relatively during the crisis
while other regions worsened, especially the Northeast region In Indonesia, the data clearly
indicate that the worst impact of the crisis was in lava
Education
Education budgets were cut in all of the cnsis countries except Malaysia. Cuts have
been particularly sharp in the Philippines and Thailand. Budget cuts have generally spared
the personnel line item and have instead fallen mainly on such traditionally under-budgeted
line items as teaching matenals and maintenance. In addition to budget cuts, schools have
had to contend with reductions in off-budget sources of revenue (fees from parents and
community contributions). As a result, dropout rates have increased in most countries and
rates of entry into grade one and continuation rates from one level to the next have declined
more than overall enrolment There is no strong evidence yet that the crisis has led to
reduced pnmary school enrolments However, it has already had negative effects on
The poverty line in the Republic of Korea is a relatively generous $7 per day However, the reported estimate is
based on a workplace survey of employed urban workers lie It does not include the unemployed or self-employedl



E Permia- Social Consequences of the Financial Crisis in Asia  21
secondary school enrolment - particularly among girls and among the poor-in all countries
for which data are available. The cnsis has led to increased enrolment at the tertiary levels
in several countries. This reflects not only reduced employment opportunities among youth
but also the availability of crisis-related government scholarship and loan programs, as well
as devaluation-induced shifts away from overseas to domestic schools (particularly in
Malaysia).
Health and Family Planning
Public health budgets in real terms have declined significantly in all countries, except
Malaysia. Whereas personnel line items have been protected in most cases, the availability
of medicines has decreased noticeably, particularly in Indonesia and the Philippines. Public
health facilities have also contended with steep reductions in off-budget sources of revenue
(user fees, charitable and community contributions). As a result, the utilization of public
health facilities has increased in all countries except Indonesia, reflecting significant shifts
of consumers from relatively expensive private providers to less expensive public health
facilities. Household expenditure on health care has declined sharply in real terms in
Indonesia, Republic of Korea, and Thailand. Although the cost of medical care has increased
more rapidly in some countries than the overall rate of inflation, it appears also that
households delay or avoid medical care as one of their coping mechanisms during the
crisis. While there is no evidence yet that immunization coverage has declined in any country
except the Philippines, and no consistent signs yet of increased calorie malnutrition, there
are many reasons to believe that such evidence will appear as time goes on. For example,
there is already some evidence of micronutrient deficiency in Indonesia.
Especially Disadvantaged Groups
Although the employment and income impact of the crisis has not been
disproportionately heavier on the poor than on other groups, the poor have suffered more
from its impact because their low incomes and education provide them with fewer options
for coping with the crisis Some of the major effects of the crisis on disadvantaged groups
are as follows. women have had to add income-earning activities to their already heavy
work burdens at home and on family farms. institutionalized populations and children in
orphanages and boarding schools designed to serve ethnic minorities have been severely
affected by the crisis in Lao PDR and Thailand due to reductions in government budgets,
high inflation, and reductions in charitable donations. Overseas migrants working in other
Asian countries have been harmed, both by reductions in employment opportunities and
by currency devaluation. On the other hand, migrants working outside the region have
benefited both from more stable employment opportunities and from hard-currency
appreciation. Urban populations have been more adversely affected by the crisis than have
rural populations in all countries except Thailand.
RESPONSES TO THE CRISIS
Household Coping Mechanisms
Households have responded to the crisis in a variety of ways, including altering their
consumption and savings behavior, borrowing and selling assets, postponing rental payments
and debt repayments, increasing work effort, migrating to other areas or countries to obtain
employment, and shifting from private to public providers of social services. In most of their
coping ways, households have given more emphasis to satisfying current as compared to
future needs. Whereas some of these adjustments are unlikely to have any negative long-
term effects (e g., postponing the purchase of consumer durables, substituting cheaper staples
for more expensive foods), others may have deleterious consequences, including reducing
health care expenditures and taking children out of school to save money. Such potentially



22      Chapter 21. Economic and Social Implications of the Asian Crisis
harmful household coping mechanisms help to explain why an appreciable delay occurs
between the economic crisis and its social impact.
Govemment Responses
One of govemment's most important crisis-coping mechanisms involves reallocating
its budget, usually shifting funds away from infrastructure investments and national defense
to meet more immediate needs, such as the salanes of govemment personnel, basic social
services and social safety nets, recapitalization of financial institutions, and repayment of
foreign debt. Often, governments have sought the assistance of multilateral and bilateral
agencies for their social safety net programs. Policy reforms (e g, shifts to more targeted
forms of support) have typically been part of the assistance agreements
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS
The Asian financial and economic crisis has already exerted a wide range of negative
social impacts in most of the affected countries. In addition, there are good reasons to
expect that the social crisis, as distinct from the economic cnsis, has not yet peaked in
severity. There is a danger, therefore, that improving economic conditions may lull observers
into thinking that social conditions have recovered when they may in fact be worsening. Yet
the Asian crisis also provides a unique opportunity to leam how social systems function
under duress The crisis has revealed that considerable effort needs to be directed to the
setting-up or further development of social safety nets throughout the region. This is especially
because traditional family systems of support are likely to weaken over time, given continuing
socio-economic change and urbanization. 'Shared poverty"-a common theme of community
and household coping mechanisms during the crisis-has its limits.
A number of lessons emerge.
* Many of the subsidies currently provided in the region are untargeted and do little to
promote equity. Due to the limited funds available, particularly during a crisis, it is
important to channel as much as possible to those in need.
* The crisis has placed heavy strains on public health and school systems, as many have
shifted from private to public providers at a time when public budgets were being cut
Facilities became crowded, and quality declined
* The employment impact of the crisis has fallen more heavily on youth, especially females
and new entrants into the labor force. There is a tremendous need for upgrading of the
skills of most of the region's workforce-particularly its female workforce.
* Crisis monitoring systems are in need of further development in most countries Existing
statistical systems have evolved mainly to meet the needs of long-term planning. They
are ill-equipped to provide timely data on the social impact of an economic crisis.
REFERENCES
Asian Development Bank. 1999. Asian Development Outlook 1999. Hong Kong: Oxford
University Press.
Chamberlain, James 1999 "The Social Impact of the Economic Crisis in the Lao PDR." Paper
prepared for the Asian Development Bank (May)
Knowles, James C, Ernesto M. Pernia, and Mary Racelis 1999. "Social Consequences of the
Financial Crisis in Asia," ADB Economic Staff Paper Number 60. Economics and
Development Resource Center. Manila, Asian Development Bank (November).
Moon, Hyungpyo, Hyehoon Lee, and Gyeongjoon Yoo 1999 'Social Impact of the Financial



E Pemia: Social Consequences of the Financial Crisis in Asia  23
Crisis in Korea: Economic Framework." Paper prepared for the Asian Development Bank
(June). Seoul: Korea Development Institute.
Pemia, Emesto M., and James Knowles. 1998. "Assessing the Social Impact of the Financial
Crisis in Asia," EDRC Briefing Note Number 6. Economics and Development Resource
Center. Manila: Asian Development Bank (November).
Piei, Mohd. Haflah, Musalmah bt. Johan, and Syaris Yanti Abubakar. 1999. "The Social Impact
of the Asian Crisis: Malaysian Country Paper." Paper prepared for the Asian Development
Bank (June 1999)
Pongsapich, Amara, and Peter Brimble 1999. "Assessing the Social Impacts of the Financial
Crisis in Thailand." Paper prepared for the Asian Development Bank (June).
Poppele, Jessica, Sudarno Sumarto, and Lant Pritchett. 1999. "Social Impacts of the Indonesian
Crisis: New Data and Policy Implications." Draft report (May). Jakarta: SMERU.
Reyes, Celia M., Rosario G. Manasan, Aniceto C. Orbeta and Generoso G. de Guzman. 1999.
"Social Impact of the Regional Financial Cnsis in the Philippines." Paper prepared for the
Asian Development Bank (June).
Sigit, Hananto and Sudarti Surbakti. 1999. "Social Impact of the Economic Crisis in Indonesia."
Paper prepared for the Asian Development Bank (May).



24       Chapter 21. Economic and Social implications of the Asian Crisis
BEYOND THE ASIAN CRIsis:
THE CENTRALITY OF SOCIAL POLICY9
SOCIAL IMPACT OF THE ASIAN CRISIS
The immediate and even medium-term future of Asia seems clear, at least in economic
terms. The region is on the way to recovery. There may be some snags here and there, but it
seems likely that the region's economies will be humming again as its inhabitants resume
consuming and investing at a faster pace. The V-shaped trajectory of the East Asia economies,
although with varying slopes across countries, seems to be the common expectation in the
next two or three years But if we are to succeed beyond the crisis, one of the most important
areas where a change in thinking and policy direction is crucially needed is investing in
human capital and bringing up large segments of our populations from poverty, in other
words, social policy
The hardest impact of the Asian crisis fell on the poor and vulnerable sectors of our
societies. The most immediate task, therefore, is to mitigate this impact and to ensure that
the harm done by the crisis will not have a permanent and cascading impact on future
generations. A poor student thrown out of school by the crisis would be unable to land a
decent job and therefore in turn would not be able to afford schooling for his own children
Children unable to get sufficient nutrition and health care now would likely pass on the
burden of poor productivity to future generations. Mitigating the social impact of the crisis
is difficult enough. But it is even more difficult to effect lasting improvements in the
productivity of a country's main resource-its people-through provision of sufficient social
services such as education, health, and nutrition."'
INVESTING IN SOCIAL SOFTWARE
Investments in human capital and so-called 'social software" will become more and
more important in the post-cnsis scenano Growth in the region in that past has been mainly
fuelled by investments in hard capital-plant and equipment, and infrastructure. Spending
on basic services was considered more as transfers to the poor, as part of the government's
social mandate. Every amount taken away from hard investments and moved into social
services was considered an opportunity cost for furthering growth. We now know better
Social spending and investments in human capital are now recognized as key and core of
development Social policy is now considered as central policy.
This realization takes on new meaning today as we realize that foreign direct investments
are no longer attracted to a country mainly by access to markets, but rather by production
advantages, such as the presence of skilled and competent staff resources. Moreover, the
knowledge-intensive industries, mainly information technology, are still the wave of the
future. The increasing weight that these industries now bear in Asian exports overall reflects
this trend. This means that to be able to maximize this sector as the main driver of growth,
these countries will have to make substantial investments in higher-level education, training
9 This paper was wntten by Vice-President and Secretary Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo Ms Macapagal-Arroyo is
the Vice-President of the Philippines and the Secretary of the Department of the Social Welfare and Development
of her country
'° The Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) appreciates ADB and World Bank support for the
Early Childhood Development Program, a $59 9 million project that represents the first time that the DSWD has
been able to take the lead in a major foreign-assisted project it is hoped this program can be expanded from
the three regions in which it Is operating today to the entire Philippines



G Macapagal-Arroyo: Beyond the Asian Crisis: The Centrality of Social Policy  25
and research. A large and growing pool of educated and technically equipped workers can
be a major, if not the main, driving force for sustained economic growth.
BROAD-BASED, SUSTAINABLE, AND EQUITABLE GROWTH
For growth to be sustainable in the long-term, it must be broad-based. We speak of
global integration and regional integration But in many countries of Asia, the lack of internal
integration is still a major concern. Thus we see large pockets of underdevelopment side by
side with enclaves of rapid growth. This is similar to the dual economies of older paradigms
of underdevelopment It will be difficult to achieve sustained growth in a situation where
there are wide discrepancies in regional development within a country. Serious problems
are bound to arise such as urban congestion, debilitating rural poverty, environmental
problems, and political tensions.
SOCIAL POLICY [N THE PHILIPPINES
Social policy is central to the current Philippine administration under President Joseph
Elercito Estrada. The Medium-Term Philippine Development plan for the period 1999 to
2004 envisions a sustainable development path anchored on growth with social equity. The
overall achievement of this vision will be measured in large part by a reduction in poverty,
especially in the rural areas, and in improvement in the distribution of income We target
the reduction in the number of poor families and the incidence of poverty, from 32 percent
in 1997 to between 25 and 28 percent by 2004. We also would like to achieve greater access
of the disadvantaged to govemment institutions, and a larger contribution of rural areas
and regions outside of the National Capital Region to economic growth These will be the
measurable indicators that will be used to assess performance in carrying out the vision of
the Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan.
In support of the overarching vision, the Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan is
directed towards the acceleration of rural development by modemizing the agriculture and
fishery sectors and expanding nonfarm income opportunities of rural households. It is also
directed towards the delivery of basic development services in health and nutrition, education
and training, housing and social welfare, and ensuring the greater access to these services
by the poor, complemented by other social safety nets and human capital investment
programs.
The acceleration of agricultural growth through a comprehensive modernization
program is necessary in achieving growth with equity in the next six years. The Govemment
is commissioned to land distribution while being equally committed to adopt the proper
policies to attract greater domestic and foreign capital and technology.
Govemment resources will be prioritized towards delivering basic development services.
These serve as the key interventions of government to protect and eventually empower the
most vulnerable and disadvantaged sectors of society.
Govemment will pursue reforms in the educational system and promote other modes
of human capital formation to make Filipinos more productive and competitive in the global
economy All government programs in these areas must meet the tests of fiscal viability and
effective delivery and most encourage self-reliance, not dependency, over the long term.
Social development will also require the promotion of a population program that respects
cultural and religious beliefs of the individual
In implementing the Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan mission, all concerned
institutions and sectors should be guided by the principle of equity. All policies, strategies,
programs, and projects must improve the quality of life of all Filipinos, particularly the poor
and the disadvantaged. These should also lead to a more equitable distribution of income,



26      Chapter 21. Economic and Social Implications of the Asian Cnsis
wealth, and opportunities. Equity also implies that as the economy moves further towards
globalization, the burden of adjustments shall be shared equitably among the various
stakeholders of society-govemment, business, and civil society.
Reducing poverty and sustaining the improvement in the quality of life of all Filipinos
are the medium-term objectives of Philippine social and human development efforts. It is
difficult to look beyond the crisis. But we are compelled to do this to free our people from
the centuries-old bondage of poverty. Given the constraints engendered by the Asian crisis,
the path of social policy is now more tricky. But if we are watchful and perceptive enough, if
we all work together and think together as in the Manila Social Forum, we may still find
abundant opportunities to bring us closer to our goal of prospenty for the greatest number
of our people. We are confident that this Manila Social Forum will contribute to the attainment
of this goal.



N Indavong Migration and Regional Interdependencles In the Labor Market  27
MIGRATION AND REGIONAL INTERDEPENDENCIES:
THE LABOR MARKET IN LAo PDR"
Lao PDR, like other countries in the region, was severely affected by the Asian financial
crisis In 1998-1999, the inflatibn rate reached 143 percent and the kips exchange rate to
the dollar devalued from KN930 in early 1997 to KN9,500 by August 1999 Many businesses
ceased operations, sharply increasing official unemployment Yet while unemployment
appears to be a relatively minor problem in Lao PDR, little reliable information is available
on labor markets. This paper briefly reviews what is known of the basic structure of the
labor market, and highlights Lao PDR's reliance on labor mobility and foreign employment.
BACKGROUND
In 1986, Lao PDR began to reform its centrally planned economy towards a more market-
oriented model. The aim was to promote foreign and local investments that would enhance
economic opportunities in all economic sectors. Economic reforms have helped to increase
national output, and per capita income and the population's living conditions have improved.
Yet as of 1996, Lao PDR still ranks 138 h among 174 countries in the world with a per capita
income of $335. Thus, Lao PDR remains one of the worlds least developed countries.
According to the 1995 census, Lao PDR has a population of 4 6 million, projected to
increase to 5 2 million by year 2000, based on an average growth rate of 2 5 percent per
annum. The population comprises 68 ethnic minorities. However, the lifestyle of minorities
has evolved with socio-economic development and migration, and this has reduced the
importance of ethnic differences.
LABOR MARKET STRUCTURE
The countrys economic base depends mainly on subsistence agriculture, while industries
and services are still in the initial development stage. In 1994, for example, agriculture
accounted for 56 percent of GDP, while general industry accounted for only 17 percent and
services another 24 percent.'2 According to the 1995 Census, the labor force of 2.2 million
people comprises three categories of workers. Ii) rural labor involved in subsistence agriculture
(1.8 million people); (ii) employees in the civil service and army (1 30,000 people); and (iii)
emiployees in state and private enterprises (80,000 people). The remaining labor force is
unemployed or self-employed. Little information is available on labor market changes due
to the financial crisis, and particularly about migration to and from Thailand.
The first detailed labor surveys of Lao PDR took place in 1992 and 1994 for some urban
districts. They were carried out by the Ministry of Labor with technical cooperation and
financial assistance from ADB Of the total surveyed population, 157,678 were of working
age, and only 89,995 or 57 percent were working, of which 52.7 percent were men and 47.3
percent were women
LABOR MARKET INTERDEPENDENCIES
Labor Migration from Lao PDR
The availability of jobs within the country is limited, but the number of potential workers
is increasing rapidly. Annual population growth is estimated at around 120,000 people,
This paper was wntten by Noy Indavong Mr Indavong is the Vlce-Minister of the Ministry of Labor and Social
Welfare In Lao Peoples Democratic Republic
2 NIE, Strengthening Labor and Market Monitoring and Analysis, Lao PDR Final Report



28      Chapter22 LaborMarketsandEmployment
with some 73,000 entering the labor market each year According to current estimates, the
industrial and service sectors may absorb only 3,000 additional workers per year. To mitigate
this oversupply of workers and resulting unemployment, one response has been to export
labor to neighboring countries
Lao legislation facilitates such labor movement, but a multitude of difficulties has to be
overcome, given the nature and qualifications of workers, including the following:
* poor skills due to a largely subsistence economy with limited opportunities to develop
skills (literacy rates for the population above 15 years of age are 73.5 percent for men
and only 47.5 percent for women),
* poor foreign language skills, especially English;
* Lao people are traditionally attached to their motherland and family, and
* poor work discipline, because working as an employee is considered a secondary
occupation For example, some workers abandon their jobs due to personal problems
and return to their families without considering the consequences for their employment.
Despite these difficulties, a substantial 40,000 workers migrate abroad The majority is
working in Thailand, as the Lao and Thai people living on both sides of the Mekong River are
of the same race, speak the same language, and uphold the same customs, religion, and
beliefs With the financial crisis, unskilled jobs in neighboring countries became scarce and
many migrant workers came back from Thailand. These workers found some employment
in the initially booming Lao agriculture, but these lobs became scarce again in mid-1 999,
when the Thailand rural economy recovered from the deep depression of the Asian financial
crisis.
Foreign Labor in Lao PDR
Despite Lao PDR's limited economic development and job availability, foreign labor has
entered the country with the majonty being from PRC, Thailand, and Viet Nam They have
come to Lao PDR (i) with proper work permits; (ii) legally to visit relatives or as tourists, then
illegally looking for work; or (iii) illegally, arriving without detection to work A reduction in
the number of foreign workers is expected, resulting from the severe impacts of the financial
crisis, including the drastic devaluation of the kip. Lao PDR still needs foreign labor to fill
jobs for which domestic labor lacks the necessary knowledge and skills.
Through the Labor Department, the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, has worked to
enhance conditions to facilitate the presence of foreign workers in Lao PDR However, a
serious challenge is to stnke a balance between the presence of foreign labor and the need
to promote domestic employment. To achieve this goal, an important requirement is to
develop domestic workers' skills, through training and other means.
Tfraining sponsored by the Government is limited. The Ministry of Labor and Social
Welfare was established six years ago, and operates only one vocational training center in
Vientiane Municipality, with a training capacity of about 600 persons per year. Currently,
vocational training is offered only by the private sector.
CONCLUSIONS
Despite economic progress in recent years, the economy of Lao PDR is mainly based on
subsistence agnculture. This situation has been compounded by the effects of the financial
crisis in Asia. The result is low incomes and difficult living conditions for the population
The country has responded to the economic difficulties in part by exporting labor to
neighbonng countries. This practice can provide employment and improve the skills of Lao



N Indavong Migration and Regional Interdependencies In the Labor Market  29
workers. Further, Lao PDR has taken steps to become more fully integrated into international
markets. The country is a full ASEAN member and has enacted various laws and regulations
promoting foreign investment and a free market economy In addition, the govemment is
studying intemational labor markets to develop specialized vocational training programs
for workers. It is hoped such measures will increase employment and contribute to economic
development in the future



30      Chapter 22. Labor Markets and Employment
SOCIAL PRIORITIES AND THE LABOR MARKET IN UZBEKISTAN13
INTRODUCTION
The purpose of all reforms in Uzbekistan is to create the necessary conditions to provide
opportunities for all citizens to make their lives better, both economically and spiritually. To
this end, measures to create a socially focused market economy include a strong system of
social protection and firm guarantees of individual employment rights The experience of
countnes carrying out similar transition reforms suggests that success depends on broad-
based support of the reforms' objectives The population of young independent states such
as Uzbekistan needs to share in the benefits of the social reforms if they are to result in
successful development.
Rather than creating a capitalist society the Uzbekistan government's goal, since
independence, has been to build a socially responsible market economy. The basis of the
model is found in the principles formulated by Islam Karamov, the president of Uzbekistan.
These include:
* maintenance of the well-being of all members of society as a guarantee of political
stability and public consent;
* recognition of the leading role of the state in the initiation and organization of economic
reforms;
* predominance of the law, assuring the equality of all citizens and state and public
structures before the law;
* achievement of an evolutionary transition to a market economy, without revolutionary
jumps and "shock' measures; and
* formulation of a strong social policy that takes into consideration the traditions, customs,
mentality, and image of the people of the Republic.
Right after independence in 1 991, reforms in Uzbekistan aimed at offering citizens real
opportunities to provide a decent standard of living for themselves and their families. Broad
choice of labor activity assured opportunities in various enterprises, as well as offering
additional income through secondary employment and self-employment. The years of
transformation established a reliable legal basis to regulate processes in the social and
economic spheres. They created mechanisms that have ensured an effective system of social
protection The core of this system is its emphasis on the family as the foundation of society.
The system of social support in Uzbekistan provides for families, especially the needy, and
assures reliable income maintenance for the most socially vulnerable groups - families with
many children and the unemployed
INCOME MAINTENANCE AND SOCIAL PROTECTION POLICY
Active transformation and privatization have resulted in the creation of new sources of
income for the population At the same time, they allowed wider differentiation of income
among different segments of the population. As a result, the Govemment's income policy
also changed.
3 This paper was wntten by Aleksandr S Navotniy Mr Navotnmy is the Head of the Department of Monitoring and
Social Development in the Ministry of Labor In Uzbekistan



A Navotniy Social Priorities and the Labor Market In Uzbekistan  31
Income Policy
Between 1991 and 1994, against a background of soft credit policy, the program was
characterized by a high share of consumer grants and by various kinds of direct and indirect
social transfers and privileges. These softened the losses resulting from the liberalization of
prices. Since the second half of 1994, when the most painful social consequences of inflation
began to diminish, more rigid money-credit and budget policies were applied. As a result,
since 1995, the number of necessary wage increases has been reduced to no more than two
a year, consumer grants were reduced and were kept only for an insignificant number of
municipal services; and grants and privileges were eliminated and replaced by social
protection targeted to specific groups in the population.
By 1996, economic growth and cumulative incomes of the population were precisely
defined as to source and activity. The process of providing farmers with lands is the most
Important factor contributing to the growth of people's real incomes. Today, more than
650,000 hectares of fertile lands allotted to private small-scale (decan) farmers provide about
30 percent of the country's aggregate income. In addition, Uzbekistan's economy is beginning
to create a stronger middle class with rising consumption of goods and services.
The Social Protection System
With independence, the republic has developed its own system of social protection. In
an initial period, Uzbekistan applied a system of anticipatory measures-including direct
and indirect subsidies for manufacturers and various consumer market protections, such as
prohibiting the export of basic foods. As reform progressed productive social support to
needy families was extended to other segments of the population.
A major component of social policy in Uzbekistan is the maholla- the traditional
association of families working together to address their mnost important problems. No other
country has a similar institution although there are comparable structures in southern
Kazakhstan and Mongolia. For centuries mahallas have provided self-management and
mutual aid. In recent times the mahalla has been given new responsibilities for public social
protection and employment generation. Today the maholla is the main provider of state
programs for families and social assistance. The open democratic mechanism for making
decisions in the mahalla has led to greater support and the avoidance of bureaucratic
delays in the payment of grants and better targeting.
Labor Market and Employment
The growth of economic activity has changed the sectoral distribution of employment.
In 1991, the public sector accounted for 60 percent of the workforce. Today the situation is
almost completely reversed with 70 percent in the private sector and 30 percent in the
public sector.
The labor market is defined by demographic factors. Because of high birthrates in recent
years, there has been a substantial increase in younger age groups in the Republic. As of
1999 there were 1 0 million people in Uzbekistan under the age of 16 Most of these young
people entering the workforce are unqualified and not equipped for the new labor market
demands. At the same time, the requirements for labor are increasing, with a growing demand
for much thore highly skilled workers.
Registered unemployment levels between 1993 and 1998 did not exceed 0 5 percent
However, many workers do not register as unemployed due to low unemployment benefits
and loss of social secunty entitlements; the number seeking work in 1998 was more than
500,000, or 5 7 percent There are also vast numbers of underemployed from the agricultural
sector, bringing the rate of combined un- and underemployed to close to 20 percent. In the



32      Chapter22 LaborMarkets andEmployment
past two years more than 340,000 people moved out of agriculture and in the near
future another 300,000 will bring further pressure on the labor market.
To improve the situation and provide effective employment, Uzbekistan is instituting
policies to create new workplaces, especially in areas with high concentrations of
unemployed. In addition, training is being provided and special measures for the least
skilled are being established Further efforts will be directed toward providing temporary
work for the able-bodied actively seeking work and income guarantees for all unemployed.
Finally, to better react to the changes in the economy, the country will regularly monitor
and track labor movement and changes in labor requirements.
TRAINING OF PERSONNEL
In 1992, Uzbeklstan adopted its first Education Law. This law provides for obligatory,
free general and professional education without distinctions based on sex, age, national,
or ethnic ongins Since then, more than 2,000 schools and 543 pre-schools have been
established. These educational institutions are supported by the most modem selection
and training technologies to ensure the certification of a highly professional staff. The
training is directed toward maximizing skills needed to meet the requirements of the
new market economy while, at the same time, realizing the potential of the whole person
The Education Law was modified in 1997 through the National Program on Training
Personnel. This program provides for the following:
* preparing experts at all levels and transforming the structure of educational
establishments in view of requirements and new directions of development of the
Uzbekistan economy;
* transition to 12 years of training. Thus the nine-year general average education is
basic and obligatory. The next three years of training will take place in professional
educational institutions (professional colleges and academic Lyceums); and
* development of state standards of professional training according to new
requirements of the economy.
With this law, by 2005 Uzbekistan wants to have improved the overall skills of the
entire 1 5-18 year old population to increase the competitiveness of youth in the new
labor market and reduce the economic weakness caused by a large, unskilled labor
supply.



H Phang Employment Policies in Korea After the Crisis  33
EmPLOYmENT POLICIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF KoREA
AFMER THE CRISIS14
INTRODUCTION
In the period immediately after the Republic of Korea applied for the IMF bailout loan at
the end of 1997, the economy experienced a severe recession fueled by the devaluation of
the won and a frantic withdrawal of foreign investments out of Korean firms. Corporate
bankruptcies increased as credit was constrained and cash flow has slowed. These pressures
resulted in 'structural adjustments" that affected the labor market adversely, including
declining working hours, wages and job losses, and increasing labor disputes in industry
Total employment was reduced from 21.1 million in the fourth quarter of 1997 to 19.8
million at the end of 1998. The average working hours in the nonagricultural sector declined
by 3.3 percent and real wages decreased by 8.1 percent in the first quarter of 1998. The
financial crisis resulted in major structural changes in the Korean labor market, such as
higher involuntary unemployment; unstable employment structure; increases in long-term
unemployment; and high unemployment among youth. The Government took a number of
measures to alleviate the problems, which contributed to the country's miraculous recovery
in late 1999. This paper reviews several key strategies employed during the height of the
1997-1998 crisis.
LABOR MARKET POLICIES AND INlTIATIVES
Faced with high and increasing unemployment, the Korean Govemment took diverse
measures to alleviate the adverse impact of high unemployment on people's lives These
initiatives can be grouped into five main areas: (i) maintaining jobs, (ii) creating employment,
(iii) job training, (Iv) job placement, and (v) social safety net development
Maintaining Employment
The Govemment took two measures to keep workers in their jobs: intervening to prevent
firms from going bankrupt and subsidizing firms in order to minimize layoffs and maintain
employment levels during recession. Bankruptcy prevention was focused on giving credit to
small- and medium-sized firms. The subsidy given to firms who adopt qualitative ratfer
than quantitative labor adjustments is funded by the Employment Stabilization Scheme in
the form of a wage subsidy (employment maintenance subsidy) to the employers who practice
the subsidized plan.
The qualitative adjustment methods include: (i) temporary shutdown, (ii) reduction of
working hours, (iii) providing training to redundant workers, (iv) providing paid/unpaid leave,
and (v) dispatching or reassignment of workers. To be subsidized, firms should be in a situation
where employment reduction is inevitable for managerial reasons and should adopt
subsidized practices. Subsidies equivalent to one half to two thirds (depending on the size
of the firm) of the wages or allowances paid to their workers were paid for a maximum of six
months. In 1998,1,896 firms received employment maintenance subsidies, covering a total
of almost 800,000 workers However, participation by covered firms in employment subsidy
programs in 1998 was less than 1 percent.
The Employment Stabilization Scheme has been criticized as being inefficiently managed
and was unable to induce the vast majority of firms to participate. It was difficult and costly
4 This paper was written by Hanam 5 Phang Mr Phang is the Director for Research Planning and Coordination of
the Korean Labor Institute in the Republic of Korea



34      Chapter 22: Labor Markets and Employment
to determine whether a firm applying for wage subsidy was truly in a situation requiring
employment reduction Furthermore, for businesses on the brink of bankruptcy, the wage
subsidy program was not likely to provide a strong enough incentive to induce firms to
maintain employment.
Measures to Create jobs and Other Work Opportunities
Measures for job creation include creating new jobs by supporting and subsidizing
new business start-ups (between W3 million and Ws million, depending on business size
and plan, plus exemption from acquisition and registration taxes), and providing temporary
work for unemployed workers such as that provided by public works programs.
Public works programs are expected to achieve two policy objectives- creation of
temporary job opportunities and protection of the basic livelihood of the unemployed. Public
works programs are offered through central and local government projects Selection criteria
can be different depending on the charactenstics of the projects. For the projects administered
by local government, screening is based on scores assigned to the following nine items and
scores age (10), householder (10), number of dependents (15), property ownership (20),
household income (10), female householder (5), handicapped (5), duration of unemployment
(10), and participation in previous public works projects (10).
The budget spent on public works projects amounted to Wi tnllion in 1998 and W2.5
trillion in 1999 As of September 1999, about 1 2 million eligible people had participated in
the project since it first started in May 1998, exceeding the initially planned number of
participants. About 300,000 low-income people were registered and participating in the
Public Works Program (November, 1999). The daily wage rate for participants depends on
the type and difficulty of work. In 1998, the wages ranged from W22,000 to W35,000 per
day.
The Public Works Program is among the most direct methods of providing earnings
opportunities to the unemployed with low income who urgently need social protection.
However, early in the program screening was not adequate and some non-poor people
participated, while many poor unemployed people were excluded. This targeting problem
was further exacerbated by the fact that the wage rate paid was higher than the market
wage in some areas. The Government responded to these criticisms by strengthening the
screening mechanisms and lowering the wage rates Currently, the daily wage rate ranges
from Wl 9,000 to W29,000, which is still higher than the minimum wage rate.
As the unemployment situation is slowly emerging from its state of emergency, the
Government is focusing on how to institutionalize the program and to make it more clearly
targeted to the most needy people in the long run Also it has been pointed out that public
works projects need to be linked to active labor market policies such as vocational training
and employment services to avoid the negative lock-in effect.
job Trainlng
Since the onset of the economic crisis, the Government has set up training programs
available to the unemployed. In 1998 about 360,000 unemployed benefited from various
Government-sponsored job training programs, about eight times as many as in the preceding
year. The budget for vocational training was W738 billion in 1998, about 13 percent of total
government expenditure on unemployment measures.
Unemployed workers covered by the Employment Insurance Scheme are eligible for
reemployment training programs. Participants receive training and allowances in lieu of
unemployment benefits. However, training allowances are reduced for each additional
training course that is taken, down to zero if a third course is taken. Similar training



H Phang Employment Policies In Korea After the Crisis  35
opportunities and benefits are offered to the unemployed not covered by the Employment
Insurance Scheme.
Government-sponsored job training programs have been criticized because some
unqualified training institutions have received govemment funds for inadequate training.
Also, some trainees have participated only to receive the allowance and were not interested
in developing skills. However, even though reemployment probabilities are not raised
significantly with training, some participants gained new skills and used the allowance to
alleviate economic difficulties.
To enhance the efficiency of the job training schemes, a pilot program of training vouchers
was launched in 1998. The objective of the voucher system is to provide the unemployed
with more training choices and to promote competition among providing institutions. In
addition, vouchers make it easy to monitor course registration and attendance. In 1999, the
Ministry of Labor intends to provide job training to 340,000 jobless workers and the training
budget has been increased by about 19 percent to W880 billion.
job Placement: Public Employment Services and the LMI System
To help reduce the unemployment problem, the Government has expanded and
reinforced public employment service agencies for Job placement and has created a
nationwide network for job information. The number of public employment service agencies
managed by the Central Government increased from 52 in February 1997 to 134 in March
1999, and the number of public workers specialized in job placement services also increased
from 141 to 2,684 during the same period.
Over the last year, to improve the quality of employment services and to create a user-
friendly environment, the Government combined the employment insurance department
and the employment security department of local labor offices into Employment Security
Centers. These centers are based on the concept of "one-stop service" and are designed to
provide job seekers with all kinds of information and services, from job vacancy information
to vocational training. An important advantage of these centers is that an unemployed
worker can receive unemployment benefits and job search assistance at the same place.
In addition, the Government in May 1999 launched an electronic labor exchange system
called 'Work-Net" using Canada's 'WorkinfoNet" as a standard. Work-Net can be accessed
from the Internet at home It provides various information and services such as job vacancies,
vocational training, career guidance information, employment policies, employment
insurance, labor market statistics, and labor laws. Almost all job vacancies registered in
public employment agencies can be searched in Work-Net unless employers refuse to let
the information be posted. Currently, more than three million job seekers are registered in
Work-Net and 30,000 individuals visit the site per day.
Social Protection for the Unemployed
Measures that have recently been taken to improve the social safety net for the
unemployed include:
* extending the application of the Employment Insurance System to all establishments.
In 1998 the scheme was extended to cover workers in all firms regardless of size and to
include part-time workers (working more than 80 hours a month) and daily workers
(employed more than one month at the covered firms);
* relaxing the qualifications for unemployment insurance benefits. To provide better
protection for temporary workers, the minimum contribution requirements were reduced
from 12 out of the last 18 months to six out of 12 months on temporary status;



36       Chapter 22. Labor Markets and Employment
extending the coverage of the public aid program for the poor. In 1998 the Temporary
Livelihood Protection program was introduced, which provides low-interest long-term
loans for livelihood, support for housing, medical, and educational costs, and low-interest
loans for self-employment; and
providing grants for children's educational expenses and family medical expenses.
The Govemment revised the Livelihood Protection Act in July 1999 into the Act on
Ensuring People's Basic Living Standards. Through this reform, the Government aims to
guarantee a national minimum standard of living for all people regardless of their working
capacity The Act will become effective on 1 October 2000.
To implement the unemployment policy measures described, the Government has spent
about Wi 0 trillion in 1998 and plans to spend W7 7 trillion for 1999 A supplementary
budget has been proposed to spend an additional W6 4 trillion to create jobs, Wl 03 billion
on vocational training, W721 billion for social safety net interventions, and W1.05 trillion on
public works programs. Thus, a total of Wi 6 tnllion, about 4 percent of GDP, has been set
aside for unemployment policies in 1999.
Table 5: Public Expenditure for Unemployment Measures in the
Republic of Korea, 1998
Unemployment Measures                  Budget     Amount Spent  Number of
(Wl 00 million)  (Provisional,  Beneficianes
Wl 00 million)  (1,000
persons)
job Creation                            38,170        37,666
* Expansion of subsidized business start ups  32,950  32,446
Investment
* Support for Venture Enterprises        5,220         5,220             -
Employment Security                     21,174        20,688          781
* Employment Maintenance Subsidies       1,224         1,125             -
* Support for Small- and Medium-sized Firms  19,950   19,563             -
Job Training and job Placement Services  9,011         7,607          363
Livelihood Protection for the Unemployed  32,352      30,346         1,843
* Public Works Projects                 10,444         9,252          438
* Unemployment Benefits                  8,500         8,050          441
* Loans for the Unemployed               7,500         7,153           109
* Livelihood Protection and Others       5,908         5,891           855
TOTAL                                  100,707        96,307
Source Ministry of Labor, White Book on Labor, 1999
CONCLUSIONS
The Republic of Korea economy grew 4 6 percent in the first quarter of 1999. with
the economy gradually picking up, the unemployment rate has slowed, dropping to 5.7
percent (1.24 million) in August 1999. Yet the number of temporary and daily workers
keeps nsing. And although the Employment Information Scheme has been extended to
all employers, a large number of workers remain excluded. The Govemments employment
programs have helped to avoid unnecessary mass layoffs, generated jobs, and made the
labor force flexible to adjust to the new demands in the sector Further structural
adjustments are expected to help bring back the country's economy to its pre-crisis
vitality and efficiency However, the Government must deal with the social problems of
the new labor market, including a high unemployment rate and lack of social protection
for the unemployed An even more systematic and long-term strategy for addressing
unemployment and its associated problems must be developed.



D Zhang Increasing Urban Employment In Shanghai  37
INCREASING URBAN EMPLOYMENT IN SHANGHAI:
AcTIVE LABOR MARKET PROGRAMS
AND OTHER INITIATIVES15
INTRODUCTION
Over the past 20 years state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in the PRC have been in flux.
Steady efforts have been undertaken to minimize the involvement of Govemment in their
management and to transform the SOEs into functioning corporate bodies capable of
managing themselves and assuming responsibility for the firms' success. The change in
operational structure aims to develop a modern enterprise system with clear ownership
separate from the Government, clear rights and responsibilities of both owners and State,
and to promote efficient management. Reform of SOEs has been the focal point of industrial
refonm since 1993. This has led to large scale restructuring of employment. This paper briefly
discusses the impact of this restructuring on employment in Shanghai, the PRC.
THE STRUCTURE OF EMPLOYMENT DURING THE ECONOMIC TRANSITION
In the 1990s, annual GDP growth of the PRC averaged 10 percent, and Shanghai's
economic growth rate was even higher, with a per capita GDP of $3,400 in 1998. It is expected
that in the early 21 5i century, Shanghai's GDP growth rate will remain stable, and average
annual net growth of GDP will be 8-10 percent Rapid growth of Shanghai's economy has
increased new job opportunities and labor demands. In the 1990-1998 period, an average
of 300,000 new jobs was generated annually.
With rapid economic development Shanghai's industrial base has also been restructured,
substantially changing the nature of employment in the city From 1990 to 1998, employment
in tertiary industries increased by 1.14 million jobs. The ratio of employment of Shanghais
primary, secondary, and tertiary industries changed from 11, 59, and 30 percent, respectively,
in 1990 to 12,58, and 42 percent in 1998. With changes in ownership structure, the orientation
of the working population has become more diversified. Before 1990, about .78 percent of
the urban employed worked in the state sector of the economy, and 21 percent in the
collective sector. By the late 1990s, the proportion had changed sharply At end 1998, the
state sector employed 67.4 percent, and the collective sector 15.7 percent. The employment
ratio in other sectors has risen to 16.9 percent. The number of employed has reached 1 68
million, of which 36.3 percent are self-employed sector or engaged in private enterprises.
With enterprise restructuring and transition, unemployment also is on the nse. The city
government of Shanghai has explored various new means of job creation and active labor
market policies These are described below:
THE REEMPLOYMENT PROJECT AS AN ACTIVE LABOUR MARKET INTERVENTION
The Reemployment Project
The Shanghai Reemployment project involves several integrated components, including
job placement services, such as vocation recommendation service, career guidance, job
training, and small business owners training
job placement service. In the 1990-1998 period, 450 employment agencies were
established, all of which have been incorporated into the city' labor information netwQrk
5 This paper was written by Zhang Dezhi Mr Zhang Is the Division Chief of the Social Secunty Bureau in Shanghai,
the People's Republic of China



38      Chapter22 LaborMarketsandEmployment
covering the urban areas. job hunters may obtain information about the city's labor demand
and record the vacancies that they are interested in Candidates found to meet the employer's
specifications then attend job interviews
Career guidance. There are about 2,200 full-time career teachers in Shanghai. Every
public employment agency has one or more specialized career teachers to offer job seekers
both up-to-date career materials and consulting services. Career guidance has substantially
enhanced reemployment. Statistics indicate that each year hundreds of thousands of laid-
off personnel or unemployed workers find lobs through these agencies
job training In Shanghai, job training, which is often free or very cheap for the laid-off
and the unemployed with city government support, works on a computer inforrnation
network; and it is closely linked to the employment market. In addition, the city government
invites tenders, including from training schools run by private enterpnses, to participate in
job training for laid-off personnel. in 1998,110,400 laid-off and unemployed workers received
skills upgrading and training in all sorts of job training agencies. After job training, the ratio
of reemployment among them reached 54.7 percent.
Small business training. To help laid-off personnel and to promote small businesses
among the unemployed, the city government has provided free job training. Furthermore,
the city government has also launched several policies specially to help self-employed set
up their own business. In 1998, three training programs were initiated for 380 students Of
the 127 students who graduated, 91 students managed to successfully start businesses,
and this created more than 960 new jobs for laid-off personnel and the unemployed.
Success of Reemployment Project
The Reemployment Project has been largely successful. Between 1991 and 1998, a
total of 1.5 million redundant personnel were laid off by Shanghai's state-owned and collective
enterprises. However, one million of these have found new jobs through this project
At the end of July 1999, there were 308 reemployment service centers funded and built
jointly by the city government, society, and enterprises. A total of 730,000 laid-off personnel
entered the centers, and 550,000 found new jobs. The labor structure of SOEs has been
rationalized and enlarged. The total numbers of staff and workers in the state-owned industrial
enterprises have dropped from 1.27 million in 1996 to 780,000 in 1998. As a result, traditional
state-owned industnes such as light industry, textiles, and the instrument and electric sectors
have made up deficits and increased surpluses. By the end of June 1999, light industry had
turned losses of Y720 million into profits of Y850,000. The textiles industry realized an annual
profit of Y250 million in 1998. And in 1998, the instrument and electric industry realized a
gross output value of Y1 1.7 billion, up 15 percent from the previous year, with its total profit
standing at Y370 million (up 13 percent).
CREATING ALTERNATIVE EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
With the population aging, life expectancy rising, housing becoming scarce, and life
modernizing, people's demands for social services are expanding rapidly Developing
employment in non-regular areas, such as in-home, home maintenance, family handicraft
industries and so on can create new jobs
Outdated knowledge and simple skills of laid-off personnel have made it difficult to
adapt to the needs of new jobs supplied by new- and high-tech industries Instead,
employment in non-regular departments is more appropriate for them. The largest obstacle
they confront is that it is difficult for them to join the public social insurance programs once
they obtain employment from private enterprises Hence, enterprise restructuring and new
job-creation must be linked to a substantial social insurance reform.



D Zhang Increasing Urban Employment In Shanghai  39
Preferential Policies
The city government has introduced a series of preferential policies and measures
such as preferential social insurance, reduction and exemption from taxes and fees, and
free job training. At the end of August 1998, there were more than 5,300 recognized non-
regular organizations, which had absorbed 55,000 laid-off personnel. It is expected that
total employment in non-regular departments will exceed 100,000 in the next two years.
Preferential social insurance In Shanghai, laid-off personnel in non-regular departments
can take regular staff and workers' average monthly wage income and taxable wage in the
previous year as the contribution base. The contribution base in 1998 was Y600, and the
proportion of individual contributions is 16 percent They cover medical insurance based
on a 5.5 percent of the pension insurance's contribution. The city government also establishes
special offices in the community to be in charge of handling questions pertinent to the
social insurance program.
Reduction and exemption of both tax and fee. During the first three years, non-regular
organizations are exempted from some local tax such as sales tax and income tax. In addition,
they are also exempted from other social fees except for legal contributions, such as pension
and medical insurance.
Free training When laid-off personnel, who are working in a non-regular department,
join the training for a certificate of vocation qualification and skill, they may apply for city
government sponsorship and then they enjoy almost free training.
Others The city of Shanghai also established a general employment insurance scheme
It also developed a fund for employment in non-regular departments (in 1996). The fund
may provide a loan with low interest to the non-regular organizations, which are expanding
in numbers.
Non-Profit Organizations as job Opportunities
The city of Shanghai is using nonprofit organizations to place people with special
difficulties in employment. In practice, the city govemment always arranges jobs for those
who find it hard to get employment and bears the basic living cost of those who lost their
jobs
At the end of August 1999, there were more than 155 community non-profit service
clubs for employment placement. They engaged in activities such as conducting
environmental cleaning, maintaining plants and grass, and repainng public utilities. These
clubs had absorbed no less than 20,000 laid-off persons. About two thirds of them enjoyed
several types of city government sponsorship.
CONCLUSION
The restructunng of the industrial base towards promoting efficient enterprises has led
to significant changes in the structure of employment in Shanghai in a remarkably short
time Further, taking a longer-term perspective, it appears that the new arrangements reflect
a far more efficient use of personnel and resources in this new setup. This period of economic
transition has led to unemployment, but instead of adding these numbers to the poor,
alternative avenues for productive employment are being found.



40     Chapter 23. Vulnerability and Exclusion
THE CONCEPT OF SociAL EXCLUSION AND VULNERABILITY16
INTRODUCTION
The financial and economic crisis in Asia has underscored the vulnerability of economies
and societies to changes in the global economic environment The crisis has provided us
with an opportunity to deepen our understanding of such vulnerabilities. The issue of
vulnerability is, however, not a new phenomenon. Many Asian countries have significant
social and institutional barriers preventing large vulnerable segments of population from
sharing the benefits from the economic development. Gender disparities and marginalization
of the poor and other vulnerable groups remain dominant characteristics of the Asian
landscape
SOCIAL EXCLUSION
The concept of social exclusion is closely linked to the concept of vulnerability and is
helpful in understanding social processes that sustain or lead to vulnerability The concept
has two distinct advantages compared with the earlier concepts of deprivation and poverty.
(i) it makes the multiple, multi-dimensional and cumulative aspects of deprivation central to
the analysis, and (ni) it focuses on social processes, institutions, and mechanisms as well as
on actors that exclude people (De Haan, 1998; Bhalla and Lapeyre, 1999).
In Westem Europe, the discussion has mainly centered on the relationship between
labor markets and social exclusion However, in developing countries and countnes in
transition the focus must shift to include other factor markets (for example, access to land
and credit), processes through which these markets are developing, avenues for popular
participation as well as to analysis of various institutions through which the rules goveming
exclusionary and inclusionary practices are negotiated, (ILO, 1995)
The few country studies on the subject that have been carried out so far indicate that
it is important to analyze more closely social institutions, social structures, and socio-cultural
values that establish the status and the balance of power between various social groups
Societies may have a dominant paradigm or a form of social exclusion, or an 'operational
hierarchy" of discnmination that influences the exact practice and outcomes of exclusion.
(ILO, 1995)
Four paradigms of social exclusion have been identified a solidarity paradigm, a
specialization paradigm, a monopoly paradigm, and an organic paradigm. These paradigms
are based on various national social policies and ideas about society and social integration
A solidanty paradigm sees society as a "moral community" with a core of shared values and
rights and interprets exclusion as a breaking of the social ties, a failure of the relationship
between the society and the individual. The specialization paradigm sees exclusion resulting
from individual behaviors and exchanges. Individuals may exclude themselves by their
choices or they may be excluded because of patterns of interest or contractual relationships
among other actors, or their exclusion may occur as a result of discnmination of other
actors, or their exclusion may result from the market failures or of unenforced nghts The
monopoly paradigm views society as hierarchy, with different groups controlling resources.
Insiders protect their domains from outsiders, constructing barriers and restricting access
to occupations, to cultural resources, to goods and services The organic paradigm sees
'' This paper was written by Anita Kelles-Viutanen Ms Kelles-Viitanen is Manager of the Social Development Division
of the Asian Development Bank



A Kelles-Viltanen: The Concept of Social Exclusion  41
society as an organic system, which can take a variety of forms. It is composed of groups,
which may be functional, regional, or ethnic in character. Exclusion in such systems arises
where all groups are not equal players in the game, where political or economic power
becomes concentrated, and when individuals are not well integrated into the mainstream
groups around which society is constructed. (Rodgers, 1995).
SOCIAL INCLUSION: TOWARDS A MORE HOLISTIC SOCIAL POLICY
The crisis in the region has clearly brought out the need to have adequate social safety
nets to strengthen the capacity and elasticity of various sections of society to respond to
various shocks, crises, and transitions There is a need to design a wide range of policy
responses to minimize negative impacts on the poor and on other vulnerable groups, and
to build a better response and resiliency, giving priority to preventing irreversible and long-
term losses in human and social conditions, such as long-tenm unemployment, withdrawal
of children from school, increase of child labor, trafficking of women and children, prostitution,
infant malnutrition and delayed immunization, breakdown of family and social structures,
substance abuse, and loss of assets in distress sales.
Attention to vulnerable groups should not imply a target groups-oriented charity
approach. The prerequisite in this approach would be to enable the excluded and vulnerable
groups to enter mainstream society by identifying their needs through participation and
consultation and by making the social, cultural, political, physical, and economic
infrastructures of society fully accessible to all, and to enable their fullest possible participation
in their societies A truly inclusionary social policy is required that reflects the diversity of
people and that will mainstream their needs into all sectors including education, health,
and social protection. This has been the goal of social development in ADB. This approach is
briefly described below.
Social development is best described as a process of planned social change designed
to promote the well-being of the population as a whole in conjunction with a dynamic
process of economic development (Midgley, 1995, 25). Ensuring that people-and their
capacities, values, and needs-are placed at the center of the developmental process is the
particular contribution of social analysis. Issues of social sensitivity and feasibility are also
important. Some of the aspects that are analyzed in the context of the development
intervention, relate to (i) Improvement or impoverishment of livelihoods; (ii) access to or
exclusion from resources; (iii) expansion or reduction of knowledge; and (iv) participation
in or alienation from rights.
Social analysts usually look at the total social universe of a development project. They
identify the various actors or stakeholders who are involved in, or likely to be affected by aid
policies and projects. Social analysts must be alert to and able to interpret the wide range of
different perspectives and values held by the different stakeholders. They need to query
assumptions based on conventional wisdom that ignore complex social reality and divergent
views and, when left unchallenged, may lead to inappropriate action and unintended negative
effects.
Such knowledge needs to be explained to colleagues coming from other disciplines
and the knowledge needs to contribute to practical solutions. Social analysis helps to make
projects efficient, effective, realistic, and sustainable. Social analysis, together with economic,
technical, institutional, and environmental analyses, contributes to the high quality of the
development projects.
ADB has introduced a number of social development policies and strategies (on gender,
indigenous and ethnic people, involuntary resettlement, poverty reduction, and participation)



42     Chapter 23. Vulnerability and Exclusion
as well as processes such as social assessments to identify social risks and to mainstream
the concerns of the vulnerable people into ADB's operations. In this, ADB pays attention to
the: (i) equity issues (e g, distributional policies, inter-generational transfers and ownership
and distribution of income and assets); (ii) poverty eradication efforts, (iii) inclusion of
minorities; iv) gender equity; and (iv) rooting of development decisions in local socio-cultural
realities. Increasing attention is also being paid to the participatory processes including
consultations with various stakeholders
Such mainstreaming efforts should be at the core of the social policy in addition to
other sector specific socially sensitive efforts. Only multiple efforts will help to change the
present disabling environment, in which the vulnerable live, into a more enabling and humane
environment and will bring out a society for all.
The social policy that is to be considered for Asia needs to reflect the particular
paths, or paradigms (as discussed above) and patterns of socio-economic structure and
development. It should be broad-based with a balanced set of economic, financial, and
social instruments that address social exclusion. Unlike in Europe, social development in
Asia cannot be pursued as a sectoral initiative alone In Asia, the poor are constrained by
various interlinking barriers. For any sustainable impact, it would be necessary to address
this whole gamut of disabling environment to release the poor from their "captivity". We
would require a synergy of combined approaches Such an approach should include vanous
efforts in order to address the issues of vulnerability, social exclusion, and poverty in all
sectors. Such a broad-based approach would make it possible to translate economic gains
into improved access to social services and higher standards of living for the whole population;
to address non-economic factors such as technological change and environment; as well as
improved social organization and social capital and their impacts on the distribution of
wealth and opportunity. Diverse social institutions, including market, community, and state
would need to be mobilized to promote people's welfare, involving participatory processes.
REFERENCES
Asian Development Bank. 1997 Emerging Asia Changes and Challenges. Manila, ADB
Bhalla, A S., and Frederic Lapeyre 1999. Poverty and Exclusion in a Global World London
Macmillan
Bourgignon, Francois. 1999. 'Crime, Violence and Inequitable Development." A paper for the
World Bank.
Bowles, Samuel. 1999. "Wealth Inequality, Market Exclusion, and Economic Performance " A
paper presented at the Villa Borsig Workshop Series on Poverty and Development Deutsche
Stiftung fur Intemationale Entwicklung.
Cohen, Monique, and jennefer Sebstad 1999. "Can Microfinance Reduce the Vulnerability of
Clients and their Households?" Paper prepared for World Bank Summer Research Workshop
on Poverty and Development, 6-8 July 1999.
de Haan, Alan. 1999. "Social Exclusion: Towards a Holistic Understanding of Deprivation."
Paper for Villa Borsig Workshop Series 1999 on Poverty and Development Deutsche Stiftung
fur Internationale Entwicklung
de Haan, Alan. 1998 "Social Exclusion: An Alternative Concept for the Study of Deprivation?"
IDS Bulletin, Vol. 29, No.1, 1998



A Kelles-Vlitanen The Concept of Soclal Excluslon  43
Elwan, Ann. 1999. 'Poverty and Disability." A background paper for the World Development
Report World Bank.
ESCAP. 1998. Asia and the Pacific into the 7wenty-first Century Prospects for Development.
New York, ESCAP.
Gaventa, John. 1998. "Poverty, Participation and Social Exclusion in North and South." IDS
Bulletin, Vol. 29, No 1, 1998.
Ghai, Dharam, and Cynthia Hewitt de Alcantara. 1994. Globalization and Social Integration:
Patterns and Processes. Occasional Paper No. 2. UNRISD, Geneva.
Gore, Charles. 1995. Social Exclusion and Social Change: Insights in the African Literature. In:
Rodgers, Gore, Figueiredo.
ILO. 1996. Social Exclusion and Anti-Poverty Strategies. Geneva" ILO, International Institute
for Labour Studies.
ILO. 1998. Child Labour- Targeting the Intolerable. Geneva: ILO
Jordan, Bill. 1996. A Theory of Poverty and Social Exclusion. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Kautto, Mikko, Matti Heikkila, Juhani Lehto, and Brian Munday.1 997 Social Services in Europe.
Facing Financial constraints in Times of Growing Needs In European Social Services-Policies
and Prionties to the Year 2000. Saarijarvi, Finland: Stakes.
Knowles, James C., Ernesto Pemia, and Mary Racelis.1 999. Social Consequences of the Financial
Cnsis in Asia. Manila: ADB.
Leyshon, Andrew, and Nigel Thrift. 1997. Money/Space Geographies of Monetary
7iansformation. London and New York: Routledge.
Loury, Glenn C 1999. "Social Exclusion and Ethnic Groups: The Challenge to Economies."
Paper prepared for the Annual World Bank Conference on Development Economics
Washington, DC, 28-30 April 1999.
Malmberg, Calvo, and Christina and Louis Pouliquen. 1999. "Empowerment and the
Institutional Basis of Antipoverty Policies and Interventions. The Case of Rural
Infrastructure." Paper in Villa Borsig Workshop Series on Poverty and Development by
Deutsche Stiftung fur Internationale Entwicklung.
Midgley, James. 1995. Social Development The Development Perspective in Social Welfare.
London: Sage.
Morduch, J 1. 1999. "issues of Risk and Poverty." Paper in the Stiglitz Summer Research
Workshop on Poverty, Washington D.C., 6-8 July, 1999. World Bank.
Phongpaichit, Pasuk, Sungsidh Pinyarangsanan, and Nualnoi Treerat 1995. "Pattems and
Processes of Social Exclusion in Thailand." In: Rodgers, Gore, and Figueiredo.
Rodgers, Gerry. 1 995. "What is Special about a Social Exclusion Approach?" In: Rodgers,
Gore, Figueiredo.
Rodgers, Gerry, Charles Gore, and lose Figueiredo. 1995. Social Exclusion. Rhetoric, Reality,
Responses. Geneva: ILO
Silver, Hillary. 1995. "Reconceptualizing Social Disadvantage: Three Paradigms of Social
Exclusion." In: Rodgers, Gore, and Figueiredo.



44     Chapter 23: Vulnerability and Exclusion
Thorbecke, Erik. 1999. 'Short Note on Poverty Indices and Indicators." Paper in the Stiglitz
Summer Research Workshop, ibid.
Tyndale, Wendy 1999. "Ethnicity, Culture, and Discrimination" Paper for the Villa Borsig
Workshop Series on Poverty and Development. Deutsche Stiftung fur Internationale
Entwicklung
UNDP. 1997. Human Development Report New York and Oxford: UNDP.
Udry, Chris. 1999 "Poverty, Risk and Household." Paper in the Stiglitz Summer Research
Workshop. Ibid.
Wolfe, Marshall. 1994. "Social Integration: Institutions and Actors." Occasional Paper No. 4
UNRISD. Geneva



P Licuanan: Addressing Gender Concerns In the Asian Economic Crlisis  45
CHALLENGES IN ADDRESSING GENDER CONCERNS
IN THE ASIAN ECONOMIC CRISIS17
BACKGROUND
The movement toward economic globalization and the Asian crisis have both strongly
affected the countries of Asia. The consequences of these phenomena for women and the
poor have been especially marked. In many cases, these groups overlap. The Platform for
Action that came out of the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women emphasized
the feminization of poverty. It highlighted the fact that the majority of the world's poor are
women who have more limited access to economic resources such as credit, land inheritance,
education and training, and support services. While poverty affects men, women, and
households as a whole, women are affected differently and more seriously because of the
gender division of labor. As mothers, household managers and producers, they manage
consumption and production of the household and make ends meet with increasingly limited
resources. Policies, programs and activities impact differently on men and women because
of insufficient attention to gender issues.
Recent efforts to bring gender issues into APEC as well as research analyses have called
attention to the effects of globalization and the Asian crisis on women. This paper summarizes
some of the key findings.
THE EFFECTS OF GLOBALIZATION
Globalization of the world's economies has had both positive and negative consequences
for women in the region. On the positive side, globalization has been credited with the
following benefits to women: (i) increased opportunities for education, particularly in computer
literacy and other high technology areas; (ii) an increase in the numbers and proportion of
women in the labor force; (ii) new occupational choices such as data processing and
computing, recreation and tourism, and banking and financial services; (iv) increased incomes
contributing to poverty alleviation as well as greater autonomy and participation in household
decision-making; (v) more flexible labor arrangements such as subcontracting and homework;
and (vi) expansion of opportunities for women-owned small- and medium sized enterprises
(SMEs).
However, globalization has had a number of decidedly negative consequences for
women. Globalization has contributed to
* preponderance of low-paying jobs with poor working conditions Globalization has led
to a decrease in female-dominated jobs as industry moves toward higher productivity
and more technologically sophisticated industries. Subcontracting and homework
arrangements that have been heavily used by women are increasingly characterized
by lower eamings, reduced access to training opportunities, and limited access to
technology,
* reduced access to and control of resources by women. Globalization has meant a shift
in agricultural production away from traditional crops to cash and export crops. This
has reduced female involvement in the production and control of food resources,
resulting in declining household food security and disproportionate cuts in food
consumption for women and girls;
'' This paper was written by Patricia B Ucuanan Ms Ucuanan is the President of Miriam College in Manila, Philippines,
and Co-convenor of the Asia Pacific Women Watch



46     Chapter23 VulnerabilityandExclusion
* negative impacts of trade on women-owned businesses: Businesses owned by women
have suffered due to unequal access to productive resources and increased competition
from imports. Also, high tariffs on certain goods have forced industries with heavy
female participation such as textiles and garments to cut production costs or close
down because of intense competition; and
* heightened commodification or objectification of women There has been a distinct
feminization of overseas employment, including an expansion of trafficking in women
and girls.
The UN's Platform for Action also calls attention to the statistical invisibility of women's
contributions to their societies' economies. It recognizes that formal accounts systematically
underestimate and undervalue women's work. Underestimation occurs in virtually all areas
of activity wage labor, subsistence farming and fishing, work in the informal sector, production
of goods and services for the market and for household consumption, assisting in family
enterprises, and unremunerated domestic and community work.
THE IMPACT OF THE FINANCIAL CRISIS
The initial effects of the Asian financial cnsis translated into sharp price increases,
falling labor demand, and a squeeze on public spending. As the crisis deepened, in some
instances it began to erode the very social fabric of communities. Women, in particular,
were hit hard in terms of unemployment, loss of pay, and increased family responsibilities
Results from recent studies, surveys, and rapid assessments aimed at monitoring the impacts
of the crisis give further support to the messages presented above. This research supports
the hypothesis that the cnsis has made things worse for women in Asia and highlights the
important interplay between economic and socio-cultural factors in development
Some of the major findings of studies on the gender impacts of the crisis include the
following:
* women's labor force participation, employment, and incomes have declined.
Assessments indicate a clear deterioration of employment and incomes in some
countries, particularly the Republic of Korea and the Philippines, and more mixed results
in others including Indonesia and Thailand On the other side, cost cutting strategies
employed by firms, means that inexpensive women were hired to replace higher-eaming
men;
* increased family responsibilities for women: With drops in household income as well
as decreased government expenditures on health, education and other social
infrastructure, women's traditional responsibility to provide for the family's basic needs
has increased, and often became more burdensome,
v increased female participation in the informal sector To sustain household income
levels, women are leaving their unpaid family work and seek employment in the informal
sector, including prostitution. The crisis has also increased child labor participation
and has added more children, mostly teenage and pre-teenage girls, to the sex trade;
* the informal sector has been negatively affected Homeworkers, traditional artisans,
weavers, craft workers, and other informal participants, many of them women, are the
biggest losers in the crisis They have suffered because of rising prices when there is
less work, lower wages and a drastic decline in the demand for their output. Also,
migrant workers are returning home without jobs. Many of these are women serve as
domestic workers in Hong Kong, China, Malaysia; and Singapore, entertainers in Japan,
and production workers in the Republic of Korea; and



P Lkcuanan: Addressing Gender Concems In the Asian Economic Crisis  47
resurgence of social problems and constraints: With heightened economic instability
and social unrest, there is a rise in violence against women. In addition, there is a
revival of traditional and cultural definitions of women and their roles and a reassertion
of patriarchal values in some countnes. These have the effect of making inrtegrated
economic participation by women more difficult, as well as complicating the social
roles of women
CONCLUSIONS AND CHALLENGES
While not all the data are in, some conclusions are clear. Womens paid and unpaid
work played an important role in the economic boom in Southeast and East Asia, in terms
of paid labor in export-related activities and services, remittances of migrant women workers
and the immense amounts of unpaid work at home. These contributions were not always
visible or valued. The expansion processes of the boom years were not managed properly to
ensure that the economic gains were benefiting women. Now, there is great danger that the
costs of recession will fall disproportionately upon women. The current crisis affects women
differently and more severely than men. The crisis represents a grave threat to the economic
and social gains that women have made so far.
It is encouraging that there have recently been a number of efforts to analyze the social
and gender impact of the Asian financial crisis. But more needs to be done. First, the data
has to continue to improve. There is need to institutionalize collection of sex-disaggregated
data on employment and work patterns looking at different groups. Documentation of coping
strategies of different sectors would be valuable along with action research testing the
effectiveness of different approaches to mitigating the impact of the crisis including the role
of social safety nets.
A second area for further work is the analysis of broader aspects of the crisis; i.e.,
dealing more deeply with the social fabric in the different countries. There is need to
understand more thoroughly the social tensions, to study more directly the relationship
between economic factors and such social phenomena as gender relations, womens roles
and socialization, as well as violence, prostitution, and trafficking.
Along with further research, there is a need to recognize the continuing importance of
womens role in economic recovery. Women play a vital part in improving the economic
conditions in Asia, in crisis recovery packages, in measures to protect and promote enterprise
development, in job creation and distribution, in skills development and upgrading, training
and re-training, and in social security and social protection systems.
The challenges for Asia are to minimize the negative impact of the crisis on women,
removing the remaining barriers to women's participation in the economy and effectively
mobilizing women to respond to the cnsis by exploiting emerging opportunities.
REFERENCES
Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation. 1998. 'Women and Economic Development and
Cooperation in APEC" An overview paper prepared for the APEC Ministerial Meeting on
Women held 15-16 October 1998 in Makati, Philippines.
lo, Jeanne Frances 1. 1999. "Gender and Markets: A Framework for Analyzing the Effects of
the Economic Crisis on Women." In Carrying the Burden of the World: Women Reflecting
on the Effects of the Crisis on Women and Girls. Illo, Jeanne Frances I and Rosalinda
Pineda Ofreneo, eds. Quezon City: University of the Philippines Center for Integrative and
Development Studies.



48     Chapter 2 3. Vulnerability and Exclusion
ILO 1998. "Social and Gender Dimensions." Unedited working paper prepared under the
AIT/ILO Research Project on the Gender Impact of the Economic Crisis in Southeast and
East Asia.
Karnjanauksorn, Teeranat, and Voravidh Charoenloet 1998. "The Impact of the Economic
Cnsis on Women Workers in Thailand Social and Gender Dimensions." Unedited working
paper prepared under the AIT/ILO Research Project on the Gender Impact of the Economic
Cnsis in Southeast and East Asia
Kelkar, Govind, and Man Osawa. 1998. "Gender Disparities in the Asian Economic Cnsis:
Women Coping with the Bitter End." Unedited working paper prepared under the AIT/ILO
Research Project on the Gender Impact of the Economic Cnsis in Southeast and East Asia.
Knowles, James C., Emesto M Pernia, and Mary Racelis. 1999 "Social Consequences of the
Financial Crisis in Asia: The Deeper Crisis." ADB EDRC Bnefing Notes, No. 16.
Licuanan, Patricia B. 1998. Reaction paper on AIT/ILO Research Project on the Gender Impact
of the Economic Cnsis in Southeast and East Asia Bangkok.
Oey-Gardiner, Mayling, Nick Dharmaputram, and Insan Hitawasana Sejahtera. 1999. "The
Impact of the Economic Crisis on Women Workers in Indonesia"
United Nations. 1996 The Beijing Declaration and the Platform for Action. New York United
Nations Department of Public Infornmation.
UNIFEM and CIDA-SEAGEP. 1998 "Women in a Global Economy Challenge and Opportunity
in the Current Asian Economic Crisis " An Information Kit prepared with the collaboration
of the ILO Regional Office for the Asia and the Pacific.
World Bank. 1999. "Gender Dimensions of the East Asia Cnsis " 224kb PDF File January 1999.
East Asia and Pacific Region, The World Bank. http-//www.worldbank.org/poverty/eacrisis/
library/index.htm.



S Mu-Lelpe,r Women and Civil Society In Cambodia  49
WOMEN MD CML SOCIETY IN A CRIsIs ENVIRONMENT:
EXAmPLES FROM CAMBODIA18
This paper provides a general overview of the crisis and the response of civil society in
Cambodia. It then describes briefly how civil society approached the problems. Finally, it
proposes what needs to be done to further enhance the role of civil society.
CAMBODIA AND THE CRISIS
As the economic crisis began to unfold rapidly, many governments in Southeast Asia
were confronted with problems on a scale hitherto unimagined. While the governments of
the regions and organizations such as the iMF, World Bank, and ADB were struggling to
develop appropriate responses, civil society played a key role in analyzing and disseminating
information that helped to develop infonmal social safety nets among the poor and vulnerable
groups.
The three decades of civil strife and social dislocation experienced in Cambodia during
the 1 950s through the 1980s have resulted in my country being one of the poorest in the
region, with a depleted social and economic infrastructure. Cambodia's social indicators are
among the weakest in the world. The health situation in the country is characterized by
high mortality, morbidity, and population growth rates. Lack of adequate food and the near
non-existence of a basic infrastructure for safe water supply and waste disposal have a
negative impact upon the health of the population, especially mothers and children.
The 1997 regional economic crisis compounded the effects of Cambodia's political
upheavals in that year to further impede our attempts to reconstruct the economy and
society. This double crisis called for an extended role of civil society in consolidating the
fragile democracy, ensuring stability, and in helping to meet the immediate economic needs
of the people. The women and children of Cambodia, who constitute the majority among
the poor, bore the brunt of this cnsis.
Published reports indicate that the economic crisis significantly reduced the real wages
earned by women in the labor force and necessitated their migration to urban centers or
neighboring countries in search of livelihood Simultaneously, many analysts noted a
feminization of poverty. Public and private investments in health and education, inadequate
even before the crisis, were further reduced.
THE RESPONSE OF CML SOCIETY
Civil society responded to these challenges with a number of activities. A series of
forums and debates were convened that explored and defined the rights and responsibilities
of individuals and the government on a range of national issues These efforts emphasized
that the only way to build a just and sustainable developed society would be to provide
equal economic opportunities for all people. This conclusion was both political and economic
in nature.
Intemational and national NGOs are engaged in a broad range of activities nationwide
that include the provision of essential basic services as well as the promotion of democracy
and human nghts and the raising of public awareness on various development issues. In
* This paper Is a modified version of His Excellency Sochua Mu-Leiper's speech during the Manila Social Forum
Ms Mu-Lielper is the Mlnister of WomenS and Veterans Affairs In Cambodia.



50     Chapter 2 3. Vulnerability and Exclusion
terms of financial contribution to the country, the NGOs' share has increased from about
$75 million in 1995 to $90 million in 1998 The number of local NGOs has increased from
150 in 1995 to almost 400 in early 1999 In addition, nearly 180 international agencies
continue to work in Cambodia with little interference on the part of the Govemment
in Cambodia, women's organizations have played a particularly influential role in helping
women contribute to the development of the society. For example, NGO media outlets,
established and managed by the women's media center, assisted in promoting altemate
approaches that would strengthen sustainable development in the country. Increased civic
activity was evident when 39 political parties took part in the 1998 national elections and
more than 90 percent of the eligible voters exercised their franchise, a significant increase
in participation compared to the 1993 elections. Women also took a greater role both within
the political parties and in exercising their right to vote
The 1998 elections saw the formation of the Committee for Free and Fair Elections
(COMFREL) and the Coalition for Free and Fair Elections (COFFEL), teams of national NGOs
who monitored the electoral process. Both coalitions organized voter's education to increase
public awareness on the electoral process and democracy. Their cohesion, political stance,
and implementing capacity were tested and established.
Also traditional Buddhist institutions were revived, and provided the social glue to
overcome challenges. The peace and education campaigns conducted by the Buddhist monks
have provided an atmosphere of trust and self-help that enabled many communities to
confront the challenges. These efforts supported the gradual growth of Village Development
Committees
Since early 1995, capacity building at the community level has been promoted
particularly through the establishment of the democratically elected Village Development
Committees (VDCs), supported by the Ministry of Rural Development The VDCs are viewed
as the foundation of a bottom-up rural development structure and the basis for achieving
participatory and sustainable rural development.
ENHANCING THE ROLE OF CML SOCIETY
Despite immense difficulties, civil society in Cambodia has done much to support the
reconstruction of economic and social infrastructure that was destroyed during the Khmer
Rouge period. However, civil society remains a relatively weak force In addition, weaknesses
of the State and large disparities between rich and poor prevent communities from investing
in infrastructure How do we increase the involvement and contribution of civil society?
It is clear from the Cambodian experience and elsewhere that investment in democracy
and in education alone is not enough to promote sustainable development. For true
development to take place, the ultimate stakeholders-individuals, communities, villages-
should be fully involved in the process of economic development. They must assume a
larger advocacy role with respect to national and provincial govemments, international
donors, and the pnvate sector. The advocacy role should include demanding a fair share of
national resources for their communities.
There have been many attempts at participatory rural development in Cambodia and
in the region. They have not been problem-free, formidable challenges persist. For civil
society to flourish and develop as an influential force, support from the govemment is vital.
Many govemments, both in Cambodia and elsewhere, have viewed NGO activities negatively.
Further, civil society has initiated programs without adequate financial support and without
a strong link to other programs or to a larger national framework Independent, uncoordinated



S Mu-Lelper Women and Civil Society In Cambodia  51
initiatives cannot make a substantial overall impact on poverty alleviation and sustainable
human development.
The most important objective of assisting the civil society's role in promoting sustainable
development is to create and maintain an enabling environment for participatory economic
growth, political and social development priorities, and emphasis on poverty alleviation
efforts at the village level. This highlights the needs to build capacity within local govemments,
as well as within the national government, to work with civil society, and to manage
development effectively and in an efficient manner.
CONCLUSION
The model of civil society that is evolving in Cambodia is one where there is a multitude
of competent, independent, and self-reflective community-based organizations and
individuals. This involvement will ensure that the dangers from the excesses of power, by
the State or the market place, are reduced. More people will now have access to resources
and decision-making power and will be empowered to correct imbalances when they occur.
This approach of building a civil society will help in initiating new institutions and reviving
social practices, which will bring people togetherwithin the framework of traditional activities
and associations People are being reminded of the values and hopes that they share. They
are developing many of the skills needed for community organization and the regeneration
of civil society for the 21 SI century. I am confident that the full participation of civil society in
development will assist communities and the Govemment of Cambodia to successfully meet
the challenges of the future.



52     Chapter 23: Vulnerability and Exclusion
VULNERABIITY AND REVERTED GENDER ISSUES IN
EDUCAON ANDHEALTH9
INTRODUCTION
Mongolia entered the 20th century as a backward former colonial territory of the Manchu
Empire in China Its public health and education systems were patently inadequate. The
Soviet Union helped to develop health and education systems in Mongolia after 1921.
Following dissolution of the Soviet Union and transition from a command economy, Mongolia
has faced difficulties in maintaining these systems adequately The resulting social problems
affect the entire population, but are particularly onerous for specific vulnerable groups. Two
examples are the effects of the economic transition on the condition of child-bearing women
in remote communities and on the schooling of young males.
MATERNAL MORTALITY IN REMOTE COMMUNITIES
Mongolia has a small population and historically had problems maintaining a sufficient
population growth rate. Between 1868 and 1918, for example, the population of Mongolia
decreased 4 5 percent. During the same penod, the infant mortality rate was very high at
500 per 1,000 live births, the matemal mortality rate was 13 per 100 deliveries and the
general mortality rate 30 per 1,000 population. Some early demographers predicted the
near biological death of the nation in the 20th century.
Since the National Liberation Movement in 1911, the Government has consistently
paid great attention to the health and growth of population. The main demographic approach
until the late 1980s was characterized by generous financial incentives for women to bear
children coupled with drastic restnctions on access to contraceptive methods.
In spite of the official efforts to increase the population, fertility began to decline again
by the mid 1970s, intensifying during the second half of the 1980s. Also, infant and maternal
mortality rates were quite high (70 and 0 1 per 1,000 live births) despite the relatively complete
health service coverage available to the population. These developments caused some to
criticize the official birth policies, arguing that it sacrificed the health of women. A lifting of
social and political restrictions in Mongolia in the late 1 980s under the influence of glasnost
in the former Soviet Union made possible a more forceful criticism of the country's birth
policies. As one result, in 1989, abortion was legalized.
Government administrations after the political changes in 1990 have endorsed a new
population policy based on the free choice of couples to have a family, and making family
planning methods available to them Largely as a result of this policy, fertility and infant
mortality rates have declined impressively. However, contrary to expectations, maternal
mortality and abortion rates have actually increased.
The existence of a high abortion rate in Mongolia despite the availability of contraceptive
methods can be explained partly by the influence of stereotypes of family planning and
society formed dunng the past In the past, women relied on illegal abortions to limit births,
and this practice continued due to lack of information and limited supply of contraceptive
altematives, particularly in remote communities.
The remedy of this phenomenon is to increase the awareness of family planning methods
and to increase the supply and diversity of contraceptive means Since 1991, successive
' This paper was wntten by Professor Pagbalabyn Nymadawa Mr Nymadawa was the Social Policy Advisor to the
President of Mongolia, and is now again the new Minister of Health of his country



P Nymadawa: Reverted Gender Issues In Mongolias Education and Health Sectors  53
governments have undertaken initiatives, with the support of bilateral and international
donors such as United Nations Populatiqn Fund (UNFPA) and GTZ (German Government
Agency for Technical Cooperation-Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit).
As a result, a recent survey showed that awareness and knowledge of reproductive health
and family planning have greatly increased.
The increase in maternal mortality has occurred largely because of the reduction in
hospital deliveries in rural areas. The quality of prenatal health care has declined in recent
years partly because of the dissolution of the matemal rest homes (MRH) system, and partly
because the number of emergency vehicles available in rural areas has declined. Access by
health providers to vehicles is an important element in the delivery of health care in the
sparsely populated areas of rural Mongolia. The service area for a 1 st level Referral Medical
Facility (District Hospital) often covers only 2,000-3,000 people in an area with a radius of
100-1 50 kilometers (km) (a population density 0.5 to 1 person per km2). Climate is harsh, and
the terrain is very difficult, frequently without adequate roads. An additional factor was the
increased workload to women in households due to increased number of privatized livestock.
In Mongolia the first MRH was set up in 1957 in the Bayankhongor aimak (province) at
the initiative of members of an agricultural cooperative. This initiative was supported by a
joint decision of the Supreme Council of the Union of Cooperatives, the Mongolian Women's
Federation, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health By the mid 1970s, all
somons (districts) had established MRHs. The MRHs are attached to the somon Hospitals
and have two to six beds. Pregnant women come to the MRH two weeks prior to delivery for
rest, nutrition supplements, medical check-ups, and treatment The costs of housekeeping,
food and transportation were provided entirely by the agricultural cooperatives. The MRHs
ensured close medical supervision and promoted healthy activities during and after childbirth.
A detailed study in Gobi-altai aimak in 1980-1985 revealed a substantial improvement in
obstetric care indicators due to the MRHs. The study recommended improving conditions in
the MRHs, and planning for an expansion to 3.62 MRH beds per 1,000 rural population.
Despite the benefits of the MRHs, during the first privatization exercise of agricultural
cooperatives in 1990-1992, most of the privatized MRHs were converted into private business
centers or other profit-making enterprises. To prevent this kind of conversion the Ministers
of Health and Agriculture, and the President of the Agricultural Cooperators Association
have issued a joint order requesting the economic units that acquired MRHs by pnvatization
to continue to support the somon hospitals, to run predelivery services to rural women. But
the order has not been followed properly. A survey conducted by the Ministry of Health and
UNFPA in mid 1993 revealed that only 52 MRHs were functioning out of 371 that existed in
1991.
Since 1993, the Government of Mongolia has gradually begun to restore MRHs. This
initiative has been strongly supported by international donors through their reproductive
health and poverty elimination activities. As a result, almost all somons and some aimak
centers have restored MRHs But the increasing maternal mortality trend has not yet been
fully reversed.
SCHOOL DROP-OUTS AMONG MALES
in terms of basic educational skills, Mongolia has a highly educated population
Compared to other developing countries, the educational distribution across social groups
is relatively egalitarian. In fact, Mongolia's achievements in the education sector during
1950-1990 compare favorably with middle-to-high-income countries. Along with a literacy
rate reaching 98 percent for males and 95 percent for females, education increased at all



54     Chapter 23 Vulnerability and Exclusion
levels of schooling over the period. By 1989, about 40 percent of the population had completed
at least secondary education and about 15 percent of the population were graduates of
tertiary educational institutions.
Although the literacy and education levels in Mongolia continue to be relatively high,
there is evidence that the process of transition, especially in its early stages (1989-1 992),
has damaged the education of children According to Ministry of Education, Science and
Culture, Mongolia (MESC) data, the number of children dropping out before completing
secondary school increased from 6,133 in 1989, to a peak of 48,446 in 1992. The total
number of dropouts between 1989 and 1998 was 166,000 Overall, two thirds of dropout
children were from grades 1-4 (primary school), and almost 70 percent were boys.
The increase in the male drop-out rate is commonly attributed to a combination of
three factors:
* increasing direct and in-kand household schooling costs, especially in rural areas, and
especially in regard to the financial squeeze in boarding schools, which particularly
affects households with many young children;
* increasing need for male child labor following the privatization of agricultural
cooperatives Pnvatization resulted in increased livestock herd sizes, which has placed
a larger demand on male labor, and
* large travel distances to schools. The more liberalized society has allowed parents to
reject sending children to distant boarding schools.
Understanding the relative importance of these factors is vital. The first factor applies
mostly to children from poor families The second affects primarily children of ncher families,
and the third factor is connected to children of families living in more remote areas.
Along with the increase in school dropouts, there has been a sharp fall in enrollment
across different levels of education. According to the National Statistical Office (NSO), the
combined primary and secondary gross enrollment rate was 91.1 percent in 1989,54 percent
in 1992, and 75 percent in 1998. On the other hand, more than 70 percent of university
students are women.
The Government has undertaken a number of measures to alleviate the dropout problem,
including organizing special classes for dropout children and providing mobile teams of
teachers for children living in remote areas. Several bilateral and intemational donors are
also supporting this effort. But with schools already overcrowded and undersupplied, the
effectiveness of these measures will be limited.
A longer-term problem arises with the large number of children whose stunted or
disrupted education will limit their capacities in the future. The cumulative effect of this
disruption will create a wave of less literate cohorts passing through Mongolian society over
the next 40-50 years. Even assuming that male dropouts will not lose the knowledge acquired
dunng their school years, a simulation for the over-15 age group suggests that the literacy
rate will drop sharply by 2002, with the greatest damage occurring to males in rural areas.
The phenomenon of increasing male dropouts and a poor male literacy rate compared
with that of females is creating new social problems in Mongolia. For example, male drop-
outs now constitute the bulk of street children and young cnminals. Also, less educated
males have a decreased chance of marrying successful women, and if they do marry, are
subject to household and societal problems. Yet another problem is caused by the relative
oversupply of educated women from rural areas. Many of these women will choose to live
in cities, generating an imbalance in the gender ratio in rural areas, which in turn will
contribute to the underdevelopment of rural Mongolia.



P Nymadawa. Reverted Gender Issues in MongollaS Education and Health Sectors  55
CONCLUSION
As Mongolia works to improve its health and education systems, it must pay particular
attention to the effects of policy and spending decisions on the most vulnerable groups of
the population. What may at first seem to be unobtrusive cuts in funding allocations or
simply maintaining the status quo in social policy can have far-reaching economic and
social consequences for vulnerable individuals. These consequences are illustrated by the
link between spending on MRHs and rural matemal mortality and the link between a stagnant
education system and Increasing social problems for young male dropouts. Incorporating
the needs of vulnerable groups into social policy is essential if Mongolia Is to create
opportunities for its citizens to reap the benefits of the new market economy.
REFERENCES:
Aday, A L., and R. Anderson. 1974. "A Framework for the Study of Access to Medical Care."
Health Services Research, pp. 208-20.
Byambaa, R. 1986. "Some Aspects of Organization of Obstetric Care in Rural Areas of the
Mongolian People's Republic (on examples of Gobi-altai aimak)." Ph.D. Dissertation,
Ulaanbaatar, 120 pp. (in Mongolian).
Directions of the Population Policy in Mongolia approved by the Presidential Decree No 115
of 1991, In: Annual Review of Population Law, v.18,1991, UNFPA and Harvard Law School,
pp.262-3.
Dugarjav, J. 1977. "Health and Social Protection of Mothers and Children." In 55 years of
Public Health In the Mongolian Peoples Republic (1921-1976). Ulaanbaatar, pp. 113-135
Farrel, C 1999. "Women in the Workplace Is Parity Finally in Sight?" Business Week, Asian
Edition, 9 August 1999, p.39.
Human Development Report-Mongolia. 1997. pp. 20-21.
Huque, Z., and D. Olonchimeg 1993. "Maternity Rest Homes in Mongolia-Problems of
'l'ansition." Mongolia Safe-motherhood Newsletter, No 1, pp 7-8.
Karruters, D. 1914. Mysterious Mongolia. Sankt Petersburg (in Russian).
Kozlov, PK. 1905. Mongolia and Kam. Sankt Petersburg (in Russian).
National Statistics Office of Mongolia. 1999. Mongolian Statistcal Yearbook 1998. Ulaanbaatar,
pp 222.
Neupert, R.F 1992. "Mongolia: Recent Demographic Trends and Implications." Asia-Pacific
Populabon Joumal, v.7, No 4, pp. 3-24.
Nymadawa, P. 1998. Population Dynamics of Mongolia in the Twentieth Century. In:
Proceedings-Public Health in Asia, Memorial Conference for Dr. K. R Chen, March 5-6,
1998, National Taiwan University, Taipei, China, pp. 216-222.
Nymadawa, P. 1990. "Renewals Expected in the Health Service of the Mongolian People's
Republic and Main Directions in the Improvement of the Health Situation of the Population
in the Period until 2005." Mongolian Medical Sciences, No 1(77). 3-12 (in Mongolian).
Nymadawa, P. 1992. "Problems of Family Planning, Mongolian Medical Sciences," No 1)79):
3-8 (in Mongolian).
Tsagaankhuu, D. 1963. "Health Service of the Mongolian People's Republic in 1919-1960."
Ph.D. Dissertation, Moscow (in Russian).
WHO. 1 996.Matemity WaitingHomes A RevewofExperiences. WHO/RHT/MSM/96.21,Geneva,
pp.38.



56     Chapter 23 Vulnerability and Exclusion
THE VULNERABILITY OF HOMEWORKERS IN SOUTHEAST AsIA20
WHO ARE THE HOMEWORKERS?
There are two types of homeworkers the dependent subcontractor and the independent
own account worker. The former is known as the homeworker while the latter is known as
the home-based worker. The distinction is important because it denotes the workers' degree
of autonomy and it has implications on the workers' level of vulnerability. Both types are
considered members of the informal sector. Informal employment often increases when
there is a crunch for jobs in the modem sector. The ILO defines homeworkers as those who
carry out work at workers' premises of choice, other than the workplace of the employer, for
remuneration, which results in a product as specified by the employer, irrespective of who
provides the equipment, materials or other inputs used (Homeworkers' Convention of 1996).
The homeworker's main contribution is labor in the production of a good or service
Homeworkers are usually price-rated. There are many women among the ranks of
homeworkers. (this is a worldwide phenomenon). In brief, homeworkers are mostly women
earning low incomes either as self-employed or subcontractors They are poor, often
marginalized, and vulnerable.
THE VULNERABILllY OF HOMEWORKERS
Homeworkers are subject to a number of disadvantageous circumstances. These include:
(i) Irregulanty of orders resulting in uncertain income; (ii) dependence on intermediaries; (iii)
low piece-rates over which homeworkers have no control; (iv) lack of bargaining power; and
(v) lack of a contractual employer-employee relationship These disadvantages are
interconnected and can be summed up into three strategic disadvantages, namely invisibility,
lack of access to productive resources, and lack of socio-legal protection
Homeworkers fall in a "gap" between informal and formal sector statistics. Although
they are not likely to be included in the list of employees of the formal firms for which they
work, they are also often excluded from informal sector surveys. A 1990 ILO review of 70
countries found that only seven countries had a separate category for "homeworkers" in
their labor force surveys. The invisibility of homeworkers means that the sector is mostly
ignored in national planning and policy making.
Access to credit facilities, product development, marketing assistance, technology
transfer, and social insurance remain inadequate for homeworkers. These are, however,
vital in cultivating micro- and small enterprises as alternatives to homework Formal sector
employment remains a dream for many homeworkers since the developing economies of
Asia where homework abounds are mostly labor surplus countries
Homeworkers are often unable to seek redress in court because of their unclear
employer-employee relationship Their ambiguous status as workers makes it difficult to
apply existing labor laws, which have been designed mainly for wage workers There are no
social insurance provisions for life contingencies. Where the self-employed can be covered
under the social security system, in practice they cannot afford to pay the premiums.
x This paper was written by Lucita Lazo Ms Lazo is a Tlustee of HOMENET intemational, Philippines, and was Chief
Technical Adviser of an ILO subregional technical cooperation project on rural women homeworkers



L Lazo: The Vulnerability of Homeworkers in Southeast Asia  57
HOMEWORKERS' CHALLENGE TO ECONOMIC ORTHODOXY
The case of homeworkers poses three challenges to economic understanding of the
informal sector.
Challenge to Official Statistics
Research and micro-studies on micro-enterprises, the informal sector, and women's
work show the critical importance of homework as a source of employment, especially for
women. Homebased work is prevalent in both the rural non-farm sector and the urban
informal sector, especially in manufacturing and service activities. This survey found the
population of microenterprises to be larger than previously estimated.
Challenges to Mainstream Assumptions
The case of homeworkers challenges mainstream characterizations of the informal
sector in at least three ways. It shows that some subsectors of the informal sector have
direct production, trade or service links to the formal sector. Many employers subcontract
work to homeworkers as a cost-reducing strategy or in response to the deregulation of
labor. Second, the informal sector is of policy relevance. Activities in the informal sector are
govemed by and impacted by macroeconomic and sectoral policies and regulations. And
third, the informal sector is growth promoting. informal sector workers actually subsidize
capitalist growth by providing space, equipment, and by working for below-minimum wages.
Challenge to Orthodox Prescriptions
in the World Development Report 1995, the World Bank offers various prescriptions to
deal with income insecurity for formal labor markets. But, in regard to informal labor markets,
after acknowledging that informal sector workers are more vulnerable to income insecurity
and loss than formal sector workers, the World Bank states that it is more difficult to provide
security through public intervention to the informal sector than to the formal sector. The
only policy the Bank recommends to deal with income insecurity in the informal sector is
public works.
WHAT CAN (AND SHOULD) BE DONE FOR HOMEWORKERS?
Reforms In National Statistics
There is a move to include homeworkers in national labor force surveys Pilot studies
have been completed in Indonesia and the Philippines, under the auspicies of the ILO-
Danish Intemational Development Agency (DANIDA) Rural Women Homeworkers Project in
1988-1996. What remains is for these experiments to be adopted and institutionalized in
the respective national statistical systems.
Redesign Policles
Field experiences indicate that informal sector workers can be protected and promoted
through public interventions and policies. The concerns of the informal sector workers and
entrepreneurs can be (and have been) integrated in macroeconomic, sectoral, and regulatory
policies. In different countries, a variety of policies have been introduced.
* Market Policies-to increase the demand for goods and services produced in the informal
sector, to remove biases against the barriers faced by informal sector workers.
* Labor Policies-to provide legal recognition to informal sector enterprises and workers;
to enforce labor and safety standards for informal sector workers.



58     Chapter 23: Vulnerability and Exclusion
* Urban Policies-to promote protective (remove restrictive) zoning and housing
regulations, to incorporate informal sector workers in urban plans
* Social Security and Insurance Schemes-to provide health, life, occupational, and
property insurance schemes to informal sector workers
* Institutional Policies-to promote organizations of informal sector workers and to
promote representations of informal sector workers in policy-making bodies.
Grassroots Organizing and Networking of Homeworkers
Organizing has proven to be an important mechanism for reducing the strategic
disadvantages of homeworkers. Through the organization of homeworkers, advocacy for
policy reforms has been pursued and direct aid can be channeled in a systematic way.
Homeworkers in various countries have organized and linked themselves into national
and international networks. In the Philippines, for example, there are 12,000 members of
the National Network of Homeworkers known locally as Pambansang Tagapag-ugnay ng
Manggagawa sa Bahay (PATAMABA). Similar national networks have been set up in Thailand
and Indonesia. In South Asia, the Self-Employed Women's Association (SEWA) and the Working
Women's Forum (WWF) have formed a pressure group to organize against exploitation of
any kind and increase their bargaining power vis a vis employers. Providing credit at low
rates of interest for its members and marketing finished items have been major activities of
these organizations..
The intemational network links the national networks in various countries and is known
as the Intemational Network of Homeworkers (HOMENET International). HOMENET has lobbied
strongly for the passage of the Homeworkers Convention of 1996 at the Intemational Labor
Conference
A major drawback for homeworkers' organizations is their lack of wherewithal to support
their action programs to assist homeworkers. External donors have been willing to fund
programs but not the administrative expenses for running such programs. The common
view is that homeworkers' equity is their volunteer time. However, this has been found to be
untenable of late, due to the increasing demands for women to help tide over their respective
households' day to day expenses. In the recent ADB study on the impact of the financial
crisis, it was reported that "the crisis appears to have reinforced women's proverbial 'multiple
burden'." The study does not make direct reference to homeworkers but one can surmise
that the women are engaged in homebased work as a means of coping with the crisis.
The emergence of the ILO Homeworkers' Convention is a welcome develop5ment as it is
the first intemational treaty that sets labor standards for the informal sector. If ratified and
implemented by national governments, the Convention can be a potent means to reduce
poverty among homeworkers. it could also change the whole face of the international labor
movement given the sheer size of the informal sector.
The World Social Summit has also underscored globalization as a trend that will impact
significantly on homeworkers and the informal sector. There is a need to look into the impact
of globalization and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) regime on homework
and define appropriate actions. Solidarity action and international networking may be
necessary for homeworkers to consolidate their disparate forces and influence the
architecture of new social and economic policies in the 215' century. Homeworkers'
representation may be necessary for this to be a reality.



K Piriyarongsan: Children as Losers in Economic Development  59
CHILDREN As LOSERS IN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT:
STRATEGIES AND POLICIES TO PROMOTE THE BEST INTERESTS OF
CHILDREN IN EAST AND SOUTHEAST ASIA21
INTRODUCTION
The Manila Social Forum reflects a growing consensus on the need to redress the social
consequences of the Asian crisis. As an international NGO that operates around the world,
Save the Children welcomes this timely move and the concems of ADB and the World Bank
for pro-poor economic growth and social policy challenges. However, we believe that the
goals of poverty reduction and social development will be achieved only if children's needs,
interests, and their perspectives are placed at the center of the new social agenda, equal to
those of adults
Whereas the general economic impact of the financial crisis in Southeast Asia and the
economic reforms taking place in Asia are covered by various studies, little is known about
the specific damage to children caused by the economic crisis and reforms. It is uncertain
whether "children of the crisis" will be able to bounce back while the economies and the
markets are now heading toward recovery.
This brief paper focuses on how children22 were hurt by the Asia crisis and how they
are often excluded in the process of economic development The paper also sets forth some
recommendations to help include them into a new social agenda.
CHILDREN IN CRISIS: iMPACTS OF THE ECONOMIC CRISIS IN THAILAND
In Thailand, children make up 33.5 percent of the 60 million population. It is ironic that
although the country is a major world food producer, about 58.7 per cent of the six million
children of primary school age are undemourished; of this more than one million are critically
malnourished (National Youth Bureau, 1999).
A Save the Children study of rural communities in two provinces in Northeastern Thailand
confirmed that children are critically affected by the crisis. Massive unemployment, rising
food pnces, and increasing poverty directly reduce the ability of the family-the fundamental
institution of Asian society-to provide care and protection to children (Juntopas, 1998).
Other studies have also indicated that the quality of life of marginalized children deteriorated
after the crisis. Many child laborers were laid off without dismissal pay, were forced to
reduce expenditures by eating less or consuming low-quality food (Foundation for Children
Development, 1999). The unemployed in the cities tended to suffer from health problems,
many reporting conflicts within the family. Compared to previous years, children of younger
ages, both girls and boys, were found to run away from home and be at risk of drug addiction
and sex work, and an increasing trend of child sexual and physical abuse was evident
(Northeast Development Association).
Drug use, crime involvement, and abandoned children are all phenomena associated
with the Asian crisis Half of the drugs-related crimes in 1997 were committed by children
and young people. Data from 40 Children's Welfare Homes in Thailand and public hospitals
2 This paper was written by Kanchada Plriyarangsan Ms Pilriyarangsan Is the Regional Development Adviser for
East Asia and the Pacific of Save the Children UK
22 In this paper a child Is anyone under eight years of age (UN Convention on the Rights of the Child)



60     Chapter 23 Vulnerability and Exclusion
indicated that child abandonment in 1998 increased at the rate of 9.7 and 34 percent
among children between 0-5 years and between 6-18 years, respectively (National Youth
Bureau, 1999)
PUTTING CHILDREN AT THE CENTRE OF THE NEW SOCIAL AGENDA
It is essential to stress that the damage to children in East and Southeast Asia was not
caused only by the immediate economic crisis but their vulnerability existed prior to the
crisis and is due inherently to fundamental weaknesses in the growth-led economic
development model.
What should we do if the damage to children is to be reversed? Short-term sectoral
interventions targeting children are essential but not sufficient. Attention to providing a
favorable economic environment or waiting for another economic growth spurt is not enough.
The Manila Social Forum is aimed toward a new social agenda But whose agenda are we
talking about? Who sets the agenda and the priorities-national policy makers, or international
donors, or the disadvantaged adults? How can the social agenda ensure the best interests
of children and who defines such interests-adults or children? To enable children to become
"winners" in economic development, a policy framework needs to be put in place to protect
children's rights together with operational strategies and mechanisms to ensure that such a
framework functions efficiently.
Social Policy Formulation Needs to Prioritize Children' s Rights
National governments should be encouraged to avoid promoting economic growth at
the cost of inequity and social problems. The severe shortages of resources facing policy-
makers in the crisis-hit countries are often cited as constraining the choices that can be
made. Nevertheless, there is always some room to spend less on artillery and more on food
security, pnmary education and social welfare. This requires a rethinking of public spending
priorities
Historically, children have been a low priority for social investment The exclusion of
children is obvious in both the open economies and transition economies. In open economies
such as the Philippines and Thailand, investment in children falls far below investment for
items such as defense and debt service. Prior to the crisis, the Philippines and Thailand
invested only 7.7 and 14.6 percent of their national budgets, respectively, in basic education,
primary health care, and water and sanitation. These social investments are vital for children's
survival and development By contrast, the combined allocation for defense and debt service
was 40.6 and 15 5 percent. Social underfunding has continued after the crisis. The 1999
budget allocated to Public Welfare Department in Thailand for protection of those "in extreme
need' (the poor, neglected children, children with disabilities, acquired immune deficiency
syndrome (AIDS) orphans, prostitutes, the elderly, ethnic minorities, and those suffenng from
natural disasters) was cut by 14.6 percent The allocation for other preventative social work
was slashed by 52.6 percent In the transition economies, economic growth is a higher
priority than child protection In PRC, Mongolia, and Viet Nam, economic reforms have been
implemented with a reduction of the State's role in terms of both financial deregulation and
the provision of education, health care and social safety nets.



K Piriyarangsan: Children as Losers in Economic Development   61
Table 6: Budget Allocation to Basic Social Services, Defense,
and Debt Service in Selected Countries
Basic Social Services             Defense   Debt
Country    Year Tbtal    Education  Health    Water &    Nutrition           Service
Sanitation
Nepal       1997   13.6     8 3       3.1       2.3          -        4.7      14.9
Philippines  1992  7.7      6 8       0 6       0.3          -        9 9     30.7
Sri Lanka   1996  12.7      3.5       4.5       1.0         3.6       18.5     21.5
Thailand    1997   14.6     10 2      4.4        -           -        14.2     1.3
Source: 'Country experiences in assessing the adequacy, equity, and efficiency of public spending on basic
social services,' Paper prepared by UNICEF and UNDP for presentation at the Hanoi Meeting on the 20/20
Initiative, 27-29 October 1998
Where social investment is available, it does not automatically assure that the poor
benefit proportionally from the service delivery. For example, in Indonesia and Viet Nam the
share of benefits going to health spending was much higher among the richest quintile of
the population than the poorest (UNICEF/United Nations Development Programme [UNDP]
20/20 Initiative).
Table 7: Distribution of Benefits of Public Health Spending
in Selected Countries
Basic Social Services
Primary          Hospital          Hospital         AU Health
Facilities      Outpatient         Inpatlent
Poorest Rlchest   Poorest Richest Poorest    Richest Poorest   Richest
Indonesia (1990)    18       16       7       41        5       41       12       29
Viet Nam (1 993)    20       10       9        39      13       24       12       29
Colombia (1997)     24       19       -        -        -        -       18       27
Costa Rica (1992)   43       7        25      13       30       15       30       13
South Africa (1994)  18      10       15      17        -        -       16       17
Source. 'Country experiences In assessing the adequacy, equity and efficiency of pubiic spending on basic social
services," Paper prepared by UNICEF and UNDP for presentation at the Hanoi Meeting on the 20/20 InitiatIve, 27-29
October 1998
Investment in social safety nets should not be used only as a means to stabilize
government, nor as a compensation for inequitable economic reform processes. Rather
social safety nets need to
* focus on the welfare and long-term well-being of children to enable them to develop
into a 'healthy future" of the nation;
* repair, or substitute for, the support systems, both formal and informal, that protect
poor families, children, and communities, in both rural and urban areas, from livelihood
(economic, social, and political) insecurities, stresses, child abuse, neglect and
exploitation;
* strengthen local capacity to manage and plan resources for better care, protection and
development of their children;
* establish an orn,budsman system, at all administrative levels, to oversee that children's
issues/ rights are attended to; and



62     Chapter 23. Vulnerability and Exclusion
remove barriers that discriminate against vulnerable children (disabled children, children
of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) positive parents or children orphaned by AIDS,
children of ethnic minorities, children of irregular migrants, street children, children at
risk of being victimized by sexual abuse) in education, training, economic gains and
decision making; gender sensitivity needs to be ensured.
Making Children More "Visible" in Economic and Social Policies
A number of indicators of child health and well-being are routinely collected and
analyzed in most countries. These indicators include birth rate, average birth weight, infant
mortality rate, immunization rates, nutritional status, school enrolment and literacy rates.
But beyond these basic health and education data, children are absent from social
information. They are not included explicitly in unemployment or poverty figures, or in
analysis of migration. When children are considered, they are normally viewed as a "cost" to
the family and to the state in terms of investment, or as a "commodity" for commercial and
exploitation purposes as in the case of trafficked children and child sex workers.
Economic planners fail to see children in their strategies because the prevailing economic
analysis fails to include children. The Save the Children study in Viet Nam demonstrated
that reality changes once children are taken as the unit of poverty analysis. The Viet Nam
Living Standards Survey done in 1992/93 reported that after the introduction of doi moi
(economic renovation) policy by the end of 1980s the number of people in poverty had gone
down from 70 to 50 percent of the population. But when we disaggregate this figure by age,
we find that almost 60 percent of children under the age of 18 live below the poverty line
while only 45 per cent of adults over the age of 18 live in poverty (Theis, 1999). A joint World
Bank/Save the Children study of vulnerable groups in Mongolia in 1992 showed that 49 7
percent of the population living below the "minimum income level" were under the age of
16, while children accounted for 42 percent of the total population, reflecting a
disproportionate rate of poverty between adults and children (Harper, 1994).
Economic policies and social intervention programs should be informed by child-specific
data and indicators National statistics should:
* disaggregate poverty-related data by age and gender,
* recognize economic values of important non-monetary work especially that undertaken
by unpaid family workers (most of whom are women and children);
* include the number, distribution, and characteristics of children in exploitative or
hazardous labor and monitor their health and nutritional status;
* develop measures to regularly monitor micro (economic and social) impacts of macro-
economic policies on poor people including children and women particularly the
economic restructunng programs and the poverty alleviation so as to identify what are
beneficial, what are harmful, and what should be strengthened, and
* include child-specific indicators (particularly those which are meaningful to children's
nghts) in macro-level policy analysis
Promoting Participation of Children as "Social Actors" Not just as "Thrget
Recipients"
One of the key principles of the UN Convention on Rights of the Child is that children
should be participants in policy formulation and implementation. Considering age and
maturity, children can and should participate productively in discussing issues that affect
them



K Piriyarangsan: Children as Losers In Economic Development  63
Promoting children's participation in an international conference has begun to be
instrumental in bringing policy makers closer to young people and in getting children's
messages across.
The presence of children as participants at the World Congress against Commercial
Sexual Exploitation of Children (Stockholm, Sweden, August 1996) was productive and
impressed policymakers. At the Regional Consultation against the most Intolerable Forms of
Child Labour (Bangkok, Thailand, September 1997) working and street children from five
countries formulated a statement on what they considered the most unacceptable forms of
child labor and a list of short-term actions to deal with the problems. The statement was
input into the International Child Labour Conference (Oslo, Norway, October 1997).
Children's participation also works well at the programming level. In PRC, Cambodia,
Thailand, and Viet Nam, involving children in HIV/AIDS prevention projects at schools and
communities has proven to be effective. Our offices in Lao PDR and Viet Nam engaged
children in research on child labor and on children's needs. The experience indicated that
through special training, children in their teens and youths are able to work as researchers,
and through participatory methods many children of younger ages can act as key informants.
The findings reflect children's views on their needs, concerns, and interests, many of which
are quite different from those described by adults.
To encourage children's participation, it is recommended that decisionmakers, program
planners, and researchers should
* listen to, communicate with, and interpret children's view;
* create social space for children to participate in their own protection and undertake
their own initiatives; and
* develop mechanisms to include children's views in decisions that affect them.
What can the ADB and World Bank do as major Intemational donors?
Intemational donors such as ADB and the World Bank can help national governments
to fulfil their commitments to children. Through lending and technical assistance activities
the donors can encourage national governments to involve children, NGOs, and civil society
organizations in the formulation and monitoring of assistance programs. Intemational donors
can also help to ensure that assistance packages are coordinated with government policies
to secure a holistic approach toward children's needs, rights, and perspectives. Finally, donors
can help establish reliable, coherent data collection systems to avoid distributional and
allocative deficiencies and permit evaluations of crisis-related interventions as they affect
children and other vulnerable groups.
CONCLUSION
Implementation of children's rights is the responsibility of the State as much as the
family and community. Children's rights as embodied in the UN Convention on the Rights of
the Child should be an obligation of the State and civil society as a whole, at local, national,
and international levels. Unless economic and social reforms ensure implementation of the
basic rights of children, they will continue to be left behind in the development process. This
will hinder the progress of all nations.



64     Chapter 23 Vulnerability and Exclusion
REFERENCES
Foundation for Children's Development 1999. Bangkok
Harper, Caroline 1994 "An Assessment of Vulnerable Groups in Mongolia: Strategies for
Social Policy Planning." World Bank discussion paper no.229, World Bank/SCF, Washington
Harper, Caroline. 1998 'Children and economics framework." December 1998 London
Juntopas, Muanpong. 1998. "Social Impact of the Economic Crisis on Vulnerable Children in
Thailand" November 1998 Bangkok
Malhotra, Kamal. 1999 "Economic Renovation, User Fees and the Provision of Basic Services
to Vulnerable Families: Lessons for Viet Nam." Save the Children Alliance and UNICEF
UNICEF Thailand, Master Plan of Operations for Development and Protection of Children
in Thailand, 1999-2003.
Myers, Williams. 1 999. 'Concepts of Childhood and Approaches to Child-Centered
Programming and Policy Work Related to Child Labour Issues." September 1999.
National Youth Bureau. 1999. "Situation of Children and Youth in Thailand 1997-1998"
September 1999. Bangkok
Petty, Celia. 1998,1999 "Senes Papers on Social Policy, Social Welfare"
Save the Children UK. 1999. "Position on Children's Rights." January 1999. London
Save the Children. 1995 Toward the Children Agenda. London
The Notion. 13 August 1999. Thailand
Theis, Joachim. 1999. "Children and Poverty in Viet Nam Disaggregating Living Standards
Survey Data by Age " Save the Children, January 1999.
UNDP and Save the Children UK 1998. "Listening to the Voice of Young People " Vientiane.
de Vylder, Stefan. 1996. Development Strategies, Macroeconomic Policies and the Rights of
the Child. Radda Barnen.



Rural
35 and Urban
Faces of Poverty
REFORMS OF STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES AND SOCIAL PROTECTION IN
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA23
REFORM OF STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES
Since 1978, the PRC has pursued substantial market and enterprise reforms, with SOEs
being targeted since 1993. These enterprise reforms have passed through three distinct
legislative stages in the past 20 years. They are discussed briefly below.
Extended Rights of SOEs
The first stage involved extending the rights of SOEs. The major focus of this stage of
reforms was to rebalance the responsibilities and rights between the State and enterprises.
The 3rd Plenary Session of the 11th Party Central Committee held in December 1978 gave
support for the idea of sharpening the distinction between the Party, the govemment and
enterprises, and gave enterprises more discretion in their own management. In 1979, the
State Council circulated five documents pertaining to SOE rights, which included the
Regulations on Extending Management Rights of State-Owned Industrial Enterpnses. By the
end of 1980, more than 6,600 experimental enterprises were implementing the new
management style. In 1981, the new management rights were extended to all SOEs
Extended Management Responsibilities
The second stage of SOE reform was to implement the system of contracted management
responsibility and to further mobilize energies from enterprises and their employees for
production and management The Decisions on Reforms of the Economic System of the
Party Central Committee (Decisions), issued in October 1984, proposed setting up a planned
system to develop the commodity economy that is based on the conscious application of
an objective value law. The Decisions advanced an economic system with cities as the focal
point, relying on the innovations and vigor of large- and middle-sized enterprises. The
Decisions, for the first time, codified the distinguishing functions between government and
enterprises, and identified proprietary rights with management nghts, e.mphasizing the need
for enterprises to make independent managerial decisions.
Beginning in March 1 988, the State Council successively issued two important
documents, Provisional Regulations on the System of Contracted Management Responsibility
in State-owned Industrial Enterprises and the Regulations of Tlansforming the Management
Mechanism in State-owned Industrial Enterprises. These documents outlined 14
management rights of SOEs. By the end of 1988, 95 percent of SOEs used the system of
contracted responsibility.
During the first two reform stages, enterprise management reform was largely
experimental Enterprises implemented different reform models, including contracting for a
fixed rate of profits, substituting profits with tax reductions, using the system of contracted
3 This paper was wntten by Chen Qunzhou. Mr Chen is the Deputy Department Chief of the Ministry of Labor and
Social Security In the Peoples Republic of China



66     Chapter 3 1: Urban Development and Poverty
management responsibility, and others. But in practice, enterprises were still fully dependent
on the Government.
Reforming the Operational Structure
The third stage of reform was initiated with Deng Xiaoping's speech during his visit to
the PRC's southem provinces in early 1990. The major task at this stage was to implement
more fully the system put forward by the 14th Party Congress, and to transform the SOEs
into functioning corporate bodies capable of managing themselves and assuming
responsibilities for firm success.
In November 1993, the 3rd Plenary Session of the 14th Party Central Committee issued
the Decisions on Certain Problems in Establishing Socialist Market Economy System
(Decisions) The Decisions clearly stated the direction of future reform, to develop a modern
enterprise system with clear ownership separate from the Government, clear rights and
responsibilities of both ownership and State, and promoting efficient management.
The 1 5th Congress of the Party, held in September 1997, formulated specific strategic
objectives to carry out reorganization of SOEs, emphasizing ownership structure, and
supporting additional models of performance-onented state ownership. According to the
plan of the 1 5h Congress, by the end of the 20th century, the Government would complete
the reorganization of large- and medium-sized SOEs into market-driven entities.
SECURITY FOR THE URBAN POOR
Due to the industrial adjustment and enterprise transformation in the 1990s, some
enterprises went bankrupt, and there has been an increase in the number of unemployed
workers Since most SOEs are located in urban areas, the number of urban residents who
have experienced unemployment and poverty has increased
The Government has set up three levels of social protection systems for poor urban
residents The first level consists of providing basic income to workers laid-off from SOEs
The second program is a comprehensive social insurance system for old age pension,
unemployment, and worker's disability The third component provides a minimum income
level to poor urban residents. in addition, there is a social relief system, which dates back to
1949 The main population segments for which the system was originally designed are
urban residents who are old, unemployed, disabled, or young orphans. This system is not
appropnate to meet the social challenges at the beginning of the new millennium. With
enterpnse restructuring, the social relief system needs to be reformed.
Efforts to reform the social protection system through minimum social assistance
requirements have been underway for several years For example, in 1993, the Shanghai
City government issued minimum living standard requirements after a thorough study of its
population. In 1994, the Ministry of Civil Administration required the determination of
minimum living requirements in major cities In 1995, 12 cities, including Xiamen, Fuzhou,
and Qingdao, conducted studies on the minimum incomes necessary to live at a reasonable
standard. The 9t Five-years Plan and the Long-term Plan (2010) for National Economic and
Social Development of the People's Republic of China further emphasized the need to set up
a social protection system for urban residents based on minimum income requirements.
In September 1997, the State Council sent out a Circular on Setting up the Minimum
Living Secunty System for Urban Residents in the Whole Country (Circular). This Circular
asked model cities to establish the Minimum Living Security System for Urban Residents
before the end of 1998. In addition, all cities at county level and county government were
requested to implement this system before the end of 1999 The Circular also stipulated that
all city residents whose average family income per capita was lower than the minimum



Q Chen. Social Protection for the Urban Poor in China  67
living security standard of the city should receive relief At the same time, the State Council
held special video telephone meetings to support this work. By the end of June 1999, there
were 660 cities and 1,505 towns where county governments have set up the Minimum
Living Security System for Urban Residents, which, respectively, accounted for 99 percent
and 92 percent of total urban settlements. In the first half of 1999, local government at all
levels provided more than Y600 million in relief measures to more than 2.2 million urban
poor people Each locality decided and promulgated local minimum living security standards
according to the average standard of living, consumption indexes, and financial situation of
the locality. The data indicate that the minimum security standard of the whole country is
Y70 per month per capita, the maximum Y260; and most cities fall in the Y1 00-150 range
In September 1999, Zhu Rongji, the Premier of the State Council, issued the Regulations
on Minimum Living Security for Urban Residents (No 271 Command of the State Council)
(Regulations). These Regulations determine-based on local actual conditions-(i)
requirements of urban residents for enjoying minimum living security support by the
Govemment, (ii) resources to be raised under minimum living security funds, (iii) security
standards and work procedures, (iv) management and supervision of work, and (v) staffs
and social security responsibilities. These Regulations play an important role in helping to
accelerate the process of standardizing and systematizing the minimum living standards
for the approximately five million urban poor in the PRC.



68     Chapter 3 1 Urban Development and Poverty
CITIZENS' NETWORK TO ADDRESS URBAN
POVERTY IN THAILAND24
INTRODUCTION
A major challenge for national governments and intemational organizations over the
last several decades has been to address poverty more effectively. The key is to find
mechanisms for poverty reduction on a large scale and make continuous efforts that are
administratively manageable as well as cost effective. Expenence shows that conventional
government-led approaches alone are not effective and that small adjustments to the
public system cannot succeed, given the scale and complexity of urban poverty problems
New ways to combat poverty must be found that do not rely solely on the capacity of the
existing institutional system and that can work across a wide range of urban populations
with sufficient strength, capacity, and authority One important mechanism in Thailand is
citizen networks that deal with various development issues through the support of the
Urban Poor Development Fund.
THE URBAN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OFFICE IN THAILAND
Thailand has about 2,000 slum communities, in which about two million urban poor
people are living. The number of urban poor in fact is substantially more than two million,
since many people live outside the slums. More than 70 percent of the urban poor work in
the informal sector, with the majority in small trading businesses and daily wage jobs. Lack
of income contnbutes to many problems, among them land and housing insecunty, lack of
basic infrastructure, and poor health and education
Since 1992, the Urban Community Development Office (UCDO) has experimented with
new development processes and techniques to address urban poverty in Thailand The
"Urban Poor Development Fund" has been used to generate holistic urban community
development processes by and for the urban poor community Through the very basic process
of community saving and credit activities, more than 600 urban poor saving and credit
groups in more than 40 provinces throughout the country have been organized into
community networks located in each city. These networks have created a collaborative
development mechanism at community level that provides the urban poor with a politically
active voice as well as a link to other civil groups and local organizations in the cities.
The Fund is not limited to providing credit to the poor. The savings and credit activities
that the Fund promotes are a means for the community's self-determined comprehensive
development, linking the urban poor together and to extemal resources. Linking the savings
and credit groups within the same city, region, or district reinforces the common interest
shared by community members within the network. The Fund consists of a revolving credit
pool of Bi 25 billion (about $32 million). The Fund is used to improve the living conditions of
urban poor communities by promoting community savings and credit groups and by
providing integrated loans at favorable interest rates
Networks can be formed in the same geographical area or are established based on
the common interest of the constituent groups. The UCDO and the Fund also help to develop
managerial capacity of communities by linking and creating vanous development activities
such as housing, welfare, environment, community enterprise, etc in such a way that
communities are linked to work or to leam together as well as with other local actors.
24 This paper was wntten by Somsook Boonyabancha Ms Boonyabancha is working for the Urban Community
Development Office of Thailand's Housing Authonty



S Boonyabancha: Clttzens Network to Address Urban Poverty In Thailand  69
THE FORMS AND FUNCTIONS OF COMMUNITY NETWORKS
A community network is not difficult to start in Thailand. A gathering of urban poor
groups to discuss common problems and issues of importance, if facilitated properly, can
lead to community collaboration and networking. Most networks start as a loose gathering
of people and gradually develop into an organization. As people understand each other,
more communal activities are implemented, both small and large, both simple and
sophisticated projects, based on the peoples' needs and the current situation in the poor
neighborhood
There can be many different types of community networks. The basic idea is to establish
linkages and connections that permit the urban poor community to participate in and
influence its surroundings. To be effective, the network needs to be organized at the smallest
constituent level, which acts as the base from which links to other larger constituencies can
be established. In Thailand, this base constituency has been the district or the city, which
then links together at the provincial, regional, and national levels. Each network provides a
common platform for communities with similar backgrounds or interests to work together
to attain their development objectives and to promote related structural or policy changes.
Once there is a community network, it can act as a horizontal development mechanism
among the urban poor on various development activities.
Examples of urban community networks to address urban poverty in Thailand include
the following:
community networks to address land and housing problems. Serious land and housing
problems are common among the urban poor. Disputes over land tenure and the threat
of eviction from absentee owners prevent them from establishing a stable residential
status. Community networks have helped in several areas: (i) resolving eviction and
land disputes; (ii) helping to secure housing rights and improving housing conditions
for the poor; and lill) getting involved in residential and commercial planning with
government agencies;
* community networks to develop savings and credit mechanisms. Developing financial
resources within communities increases earning and job creation opportunities at the
local level and allows development and poverty alleviation to be managed by the poor
themselves. UCDO has recently provided funds for the formation of Network Development
Funds that will disburse loans to individuals in member communities;
* community networks to develop community enterprise activities. Networks can organize
poor individuals with similar skills or professions so that they can develop businesses
or compete with established pnvate firms that would otherwise exclude the urban
poor from potential economic gain. Examples in Thailand include: (i) networks in Bangkok
that subcontract projects directly from the Bangkok Municipal Authority. In 1999, such
subcontracts amounted to B30 million ($800,000) and included production of school
uniforms, garbage collection, and small-scale repair and construction; (ii) networks that
promote and plan for economic development of urban constituencies; and (iii)
professional networks that link poor individuals in the same profession to promote
policy changes and improved work conditions
* development of a welfare system by community networks. The development of local
safety nets to assist the very poor and disadvantaged can be crucial in filling gaps in
government assistance During 1999, UCDO worked with the Social Investment Fund to
develop a welfare program with community networks as the central operators. Through
the community networks, urban communities identified disadvantaged groups and
planned welfare activities. Most urban community networks in Thailand now have



70     Chapter 3 1 Urban Development and Poverty
their own welfare funds with a full range of components, such as funds for school fees,
old people, hospitalization, treatment of drug addiction, and revolving credit funds for
income generation activities; and
development of urban environment activities by community networks. During the period
1996-1999, UCDO coordinated with DANCED to develop the Urban Community
Environment Fund The Fund supports environment projects organized by community
organizations and networks. The resulting projects are implemented faster and more
cheaply than Govemment-initiated activities. About 200 projects were put into action
between 1997 and 1999.
CONCLUSION
Citizen's networks offer an effective mechanism to harness the resources of the urban
poor themselves, and can empower them to remove political and structural constraints
that hinder growth and development They have proved remarkably successful in Thailand,
with support from the Thai Govemment provided through UCDO.



H Le. Rural Development Policies for Poverty Reduction in Wet Nam  71
RuRAL DEVELOPMENT POLICES FOR POVERTY ALLEVIATION
IN VIET NAM25
For many different reasons, Viet Nam remains an undeveloped country. Per capita GDP
is low, the proportion of poverty is high, the life of the people is hard. To overcome this
situation, the Government of Viet Nam has promulgated a wide range of measures to develop
the economy and alleviate poverty with the aim of raising standards of living. Economic
growth and pro-poor govemment policies have reduced the incidence of poverty from more
than 40 percent to about 20 percent in the last eight years. Viet Nam is currently said to be
the most impressive success story for poverty reduction in Asia.
GOVERNMENTAL POLICIES
In 1986, the Viet Nam Communist Party's Sixth National Congress ratified a
comprehensive economic and social policy with three key objectives: /i) to shift from a
centrally-planned regime to a market-oriented economy managed by the State; (il) to
democratize the society; and (iii) to strengthen cooperation and relationships with other
countries for peace, independence, and development.
Viet Nam is an agricultural country with more than 80 percent of the population, over
70 percent of the national workforce, and more than 90 percent of the poor living in the
countryside. Therefore, the policies promulgated by the Party and the Govemment give
priority to agricultural and rural development. In 1988 the Party Politburo decided to: (i)
allocate land to farmers for longer terms so that they would be willing to invest in production;
lii) contract out to individual households; and (iII) permit farmers to buy materials and sell
their products In a free market.
Irrigation
After introducing land-use reforms affecting tenure, distribution, and taxation, the State
invested a significant proportion of its budget in irTigation and reclamation projects. So far,
743 medium and large ponds and dams and 3,500 small ones have been built. More than
1,000 large draining sewers and more than 1,000 large drainage and irrigating channels
have been constructed. The 10,600 large and medium pumping stations have a capacity of
24.8 million m3 per hour. Cooperatives and farmers purchased more than 755,000 small and
medium water pumps. In the past 10 years, irrigation capacity has risen by 1.4 million
hectares.
Reforestation
Major Govemment efforts have aimed at reforestation. From 1976 to 1990, forested area
was disappearing at an average rate of 190,000 ha per year. In the 1991-1998 period, that
rate had dropped to 35,000 hectares. During that period 1.373 million ha of forest were
planted, 9.3 million hectares of existing forest protected, and 700,000 ha regenerated. The
forest cover ratio rose from 28.2 percent in 1995 to 30.8 percent in 1998. In 1998 the Government
approved a project to plant five million ha of forest land. Forestry has changed from an
industry biased toward cutting timber to one that is based mainly on sylviculture, with the
people regarded as a major work force to protect and develop forests. These programs
improve the ecological environment, generate jobs, contribute to the alleviation of poverty
in the countryside, and supply materials to the wood-processing industry.
This paper was written by Hong Thai Le Mr Le is the Deputy Director of the Department of Agriculture and Rural
Development In the Ministry of Planning and Investment in Viet Nam.



72     Chapter 3 2. Rural Development and Poverty
Fishing
In 1997 a program for offshore fishing was established. Through this program the State
provides preferential loans to people who build and re-equip high-powered ships. There are
now 71,600 engine-powered ships, of which 4,000 are of large-capacity (90 horsepower or
more) and are equipped for offshore fishing. A network of fishing ports has been built and
upgraded Machines now perform many hard jobs, simultaneously decreasing manual labor
and increasing productivity. The output of fisheries has become a major export for the
national economy, accounting for 20 percent of agncultural exports and about 9 percent of
national exports In 1998, fisheries produced 1.755 million tons with an export value of $850
million.
Support Services, Forward and Backward Linkages, and Infrastructure
In conjunction with these policies, the State has implemented many other programs to
encourage broad scale economic development, such as the free circulation of goods,
eradication of price controls, and ensuring equality for all economic sectors in business
including import and export aspects (except some items forbidden or strictly managed by
the State).
Many large-scale specialized regions that produce agricultural commodities have been
developed and closely coordinate their production with processing industries in rubber,
cotton, fruit, milk, tea, and sugar. Meanwhile, rural professions have been re-established
and expanded to create cottage industnes in rural villages in porcelain, textiles, woodwork,
etc
Efforts are continuing to create more favorable conditions for attracting foreign
investment capital. Internally, domestic investment is being encouraged through tax
preferences; programs for preferential loans to develop forest areas and support industrial
crops, such as sugar cane, have been established. In addition, the Viet Nam Bank for the
Poor was established in 1995 specifically to provide loans to poor households at preferential
interest rates
Overall, vital infrastructure has been greatly improved. The rural transport system has
been developed and/or upgraded. By the end of 1997, 93 percent of communes had roads
to their center, nearly 70 percent of communes had electricity, 98 percent of communes
had primary schools; 92 percent had health clinics; and nearly 40 percent of the population
had safe water to use Many new rural towns were established.
ACHIEVEMENTS IN REDUCING POVERTY
The national economy has achieved a high growth rate, averaging 8.2 percent for the
period 1991-1995 and 7.5 percent for the period 1996-1998. Inflation was pushed back. In
the past 10 years, the rural areas of Viet Nam have seen remarkable changes. The most
notable achievement is the continuous increase in food production brought about by
improved management, transfer of functions from the central to the local level, and by
applied scientific and technical advancements As a result, Viet Nam has been transformed
from a food-shortage country to one of the primary rice and food exporters in the world
Across the spectrum of agricultural activity, there is measurable progress. For example: (i)
Leaner pigs and Sindhi hybrid cattle have been introduced; (ii) special aquaculture enterpnses,
including shrimp farming and crab farming are underway; and (ini) in crops, hybnd cotton,
high-yielding sugar cane, and other hybrid varieties have been extensively planted. Nearly
70 new vaneties of rice have been introduced and rice exports in 2000 are estimated to
amount to 4 million tons.



H Le: Rural Development Policies for Poverty Reduction In Viet Nam  73
The tremendous increase in production has invigorated communities materially,
culturally, and spiritually. Advances in agriculture have played a very important part in
leading the country out of crisis and in creating a foundation for social-economic and political
stabilization. They have helped the country to participate in regional and international
organizations, and have created preconditions for pushing forward with industrialization
and modemization
Programs are also underway to reclaim waste lands and facilitate the moving of
populations to land-plentiful areas or to new economic areas About 800,000 ethnic minority
people have been settled permanently; and more than 1.2 million people benefited through
projects for settled agnculture and resettlement. Many border areas were stabilized by
disarming mines and upgrading the infrastructure.
The Govemment has approved a National Program for job generation with the goal of
attracting 1 3 million to 1.4 million workers annually, reducing urban unemployment
substantially, and increasing the rate of rural working time. The major emphasis of the
program is on skills training and occupational capabilities to increase labor productivity.
Most important, living conditions have improved materially. The proportion of
households that have solid houses, television sets, radios, bicycles, motorbikes, and electric
fans is increasing. The proportion of poor households declined from 30 percent in 1992 to
about 17 percent in 1998. The number of people who can read and write and who have
graduated from universities, training colleges, and secondary schools has increased Cultural
affairs, gymnastics and sports, and traditional customs and festivals have been re-established.
PERSISTENT PROBLEMS
The income of peasants continues to be low, and the proportion living in poverty remains
too high. The income gaps between rural and urban areas and between different regions
are high and the trend is increasing. Major reasons for this situation include: (i) lack of land
for production (100,000 households in the Mekong River Delta are landless); (ii) lack of capital
for production and doing business; (iii) lack of experience in production and business; (iv)
lack of access to markets; (v) families with a shortage of workers; and (vi) families with
disease or bad luck.
The Government has identified 1,715 communes with senous problems. Most of these
are located in remote or northem mountainous areas In 1998 a major commitment was
made to build infrastructure (fresh water system, transportation, irrigation, power system,
schools, health clinics), rearrange population, support financial lending, and strengthen agro-
forest extension activities. In 1999 the State invested D400 million in each poor commune
CONCLUSION
Viet Nam has made great progress towards alleviating poverty. Millions of people in
Viet Nam are now enjoying more stable and more productive lives with rising standards of
living However, despite the many programs that the Government has put in place, the
poverty situation continues to be a serious challenge. Therefore, poverty alleviation, especially
in the countryside, is one of the most important tasks facing the Government in this period
and in the years to come.



74      Chapter 32: Rural Development and Poverty
MICROFINANCE AND THE RuRAL POOR:
SoM REALrrY CHECKS IN INDONESIA26
REACHING THE POOR
The 1 980s witnessed the emergence of a new set of microfinance institutions in Asia.
These institutions have brought the finance of microenterprises to unprecedented levels in
two important dimensions- scale and financial viability They reach far greater numbers of
the poor than their predecessors, and cover more of their costs
Among these new organizations are the Grameen Bank in Bangladesh and Bina Swadaya
in Indonesia which are pioneers in the field. These organizations, while differing importantly
from each other, constitute the foundations of a financial-systems approach to the poor
through microenterprise development. They share, in varying degrees, important
characteristics that set them apart from the previous generation of microenterpnse programs.
Their ability to reach large numbers of the poor on a nearly commercial basis should propel
the field of microfinance to a new level of importance. However, the Asian financial crisis
also affected these institutions, although they provided during that time a good safety net
for many poor.
IMPACT OF INDONESIAN ECONOMIC CRISIS ON MICROFINANCE
The prolonged economic crisis has brought disorder to the Indonesian economy.
Indonesian industnes are still collapsed due to great foreign debts, exports have not been
progressing, while banking was unable to provide credit to the real sectors. Banking
recapitalization has yet to occur. An estimated more than Rp600 quintillion (or 60 percent
of the recent GDP of Indonesia) is needed to recapitalize Indonesia's banking system.
But despite these economic shocks, poverty in Indonesia did not increase much between
1996 and 1999. Urban poverty increased by only 900,000 people, after increasing by 6.1
million people in the crisis penod of February 1996 to December 1998, while rural poverty
decreased from 21 3 percent (26.5 million people) in 1996 to 20.2 percent (25 1 million) in
1999. That means that many poor people, especially women who earn income from
microenterpnses in the informal sector, had effective safety net mechanisms to cope with
the economic difficulties of the Asian crisis.
Table 8: Poverty in Indonesia, 1996-1999
URBAN                 RURAL                  TOTAL
Percent Million People  Percent Million People  Percent Million People
Feb 1996     156       115        213         265        192        3800
Dec 1998    21.9       17.6       257         319        242        49.5
Aug1999      151        124        202        251        18.2       375
Source Puguh Irawan & Haning Romdiatl, The Imppoct of Economic Cnsis on Poverty and Its Impibcation for Develop-
ing Strategies, Pra-Widya Karya Nasional Pangan dan Gizi VII, ilPI, 23-24 November 1999
With microfinance programs, non-formal financial institutions (such as self-help groups
running Savings and Credit) developed by NGOs and rural fonmal financial institutions (like
BPRs/rural banks) helped to mitigate the social costs of the Asian crisIs. The rural economy
using microfinance to support microenterprise development opened up new working
21 This paper was wntten by Em Haryadi Mr Haryadi is the Director of the Bmna Swadaya Foundation In Indonesia



Em Haryadi: Microfinance and the Rural Poor Some Reality Checks In Indonesia  75
opportunities and absorbed a good number of self-employed from the formal industrial-
based sector. Data suggest that the rate of credit repayment during the crisis decreased
from 96 to 85 percent. Credit repayment of micro-enterprises has risen again to 90 percent.
In short, the microcredit programs survived remarkably well through the crisis.
Today, the acute economic crisis in Indonesia is largely over, but many people still
suffer in poverty Therefore, changes to support a community-based economic development
approach are needed to regain economic growth.
INTERMEDIATING THE POOR
The financial systems approach of these organizations focuses on developing
intermediation for the poor. Financial intermediation works only if the cost of raising funds,
lending and recovery can be met by fees and interest income. in other words, financial
intermediation requires financial self-reliance on the part of the intermediary institutions.
Embracing the goal of self-reliance represents a major change in the thinking of those in the
field of microfinance. The concept has gained acceptance in large part because an increasing
number of successful programs have been developed by a variety of organizations that
serve microenterprises.
THE BINA SWADAYA EXPERIENCE
The Bina Swadaya's approach in promoting microfinance institutions for the poor can
be analyzed in terms of four distinct levels of self-reliance. Presenting these levels as a
progression is not meant to imply that programs should begin at the bottom and work up.
Beginning most of the way up is far preferable to starting at Level One Nevertheless, programs
should-be judged less by their current level of achievement than by their demonstrated
progress in moving toward higher levels
Level One: Microfinance Formation. This level Is associated with traditional, highly-
subsidized programs. Bina Swadaya organizes those in greatest need into Self-Help Groups
(SHGs) to form microenterprises or to manage income-generating projects. Grants or soft
loans cover operating expenses and establish a revolving loan fund. At this stage, Bina
Swadaya encourages the SHGs to undertake savings mobilization Each member of an SHG
has to save a small amount of money on a regular basis. Bina Swadaya provides training
and technical assistance to the group leaders of the SHGs. However, when programs are
heavily subsidized and performing poorly, the value of the fund erodes quickly through
delinquency and inflation. Revenues fall short of operating expenses, resulting in continuing
needs for grants.
Level 7Wo- Microfinance Institution When the SHGs savings increase moderately, Bina
Swadaya introduces "Solidarity Savings" which each group deposits with Bina Swadaya
The Microfinance Programs also create a so-called "solidarity credit," borrowing on terms
near, but still below, market rates Interest income covers the cost of funds, and a portion of
operating expenses, but grants are still required to finance some aspects of operations. At
this level the subsidy required is significantly smaller than at the earlier level. However, the
microfinance programs should not remain at this level. Therefore, the SHGs should be
consolidated and trained in accountancy, microenterprise management and SHG procedures,
as well as savings and deposit mobilization.



76      Chapter 3 2. Rural Development and Poverty
 _ ' -     _ - - - -                                      ,- - - - - - - -   -  -_ -   - - - I
1able 9: Bina Swadaya Achievements In Indonesia
Level 1       Level 2      Level 3      Level 4         Total
Savings and Credit Operation
Number of              7            6            5            4         22 FOs
Bina Sadaya
Field Offices
* Number of           196           362          611          570  1739 MF-SHGs
MF-SHGs
Total Savings  56,396,600  301,069,548  446,300,414   230,123,907  1,033,890,469
Mobilized (Rp)
* Total Revolving  87,869,600                                         87 869 600
Fund (Rp)
* Total Bank Loan            548,375,000  819,740,373  848,994,280  2,217,109,653
(Rpj
* Total Credit              1,058,733,880  819,740,373  848,994,280  2,727,468,533
Disbursed (Rp)
Institution & Capacity Building Support Training on:
* SHG Principles  196 SHGs     222 SHGs                                418 SHGs
* Accountancy                  222 SHGs                                 222 SHGs I
skills
* Microenterpnse                46 SHGs      50 SHGs                    96 SHGs
Management
* Marketing                                  50 SHGs                     50 SHGs
management
* Partnership                                             55 SHGs        55 SHGs
Management
* Production                                              55 SHGs       55 SHGs
Processing and
Marketing
Technical Assistance on:
* SHG By-Laws     196 SHGs                                              196 SHGs
* Bookkeeping      42 SHGs                                              42 SHGs
* SHG Procedures  71 SHGs                                               71 SHGs
* Business                                   31 SHGs                     31 SHGs
Accountability
* Marketing                                  31 SHGs                    31 SHGs
Services
* Business                                                50 SHGs        50 SHGs
Networking
* Marketing                                               50 SHGs       50 SHGs
Source: Bina Swadaya
Level Three. Improved Microfinance Institution Market rate loans are applied by Bina
Swadaya Most subsidies are eliminated, but it is difficult to eradicate a persistent depen-
dence on some degree of subsidy. Level Three is associated with most of the well-known
credit programs, and it is probably necessary to reach at least this point in order to achieve
large-scale operations. The Microfinance Programs at this level are rarely required to take
the next step, because their sources of support are satisfied with their performance. The
Solidanty Savings and Credit Program has eliminated subsidy from Bina Swadaya headquar-
ters, but requires some grant support for supervision. At this stage, the eligible SHGs are also



Em Haryadi: Microfinance and the Rural Poor Some Reality Checks in Indonesia  77
being linked with banks to receive a market rate loan without collateral under the 'HBK-
Scheme' (Central Bank Program on Linking Banks and SHGs). The SHG members should be
assisted with business management, marketing, and accountancy to improve performance
in running and expanding their microenterprises, and in managing daily savings collection.
Level Four Microfinance 71ansformation The final level of self-reliance is reached when
the microcredit program is fully financed from the savings of its clients, and funds are raised
at commercial rates from formal financial institutions or banks. Fees and interest income
cover the real cost of funds, loan loss reserves, operations, and inflation. The Bina Swadaya
has reached this level in promoting microfinancial self-help groups and a microenterprise
development program by establishing four rural banks in partnership with a number of
SHGs and the micro-entrepreneurs.



78     Chapter 3 2* Rural Development and Poverty
CREDIT UNIONS AS ALTERNATIVE BANKING INSTITUTIONS:
THE EXPERIENCE OF THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC27
INTRODUCTION
Since independence in 1991, the Kyrgyz Republic's transition from a centralized system
to a free market economy has come with substantial hardships The collapse of most systems
and subsidies under the command economy resulted in supply shortages and rapid price
increases. Wages and incomes, at least in the public sector, have remained low. Private
sector activities, while increasing, have not yet generated the levels of employment and
income necessary to overcome the systemic deficiencies that are the legacy of the previous
system. Cuts in govemment subsidies and services have senously hurt the situation of people
in rural areas also The disintegration of traditional marketing channels, and declining
disposable incomes and savings, have resulted in decreased incomes for farmers, and virtual
elimination of managed, subsidized agricultural input supplies and public transfers have
resulted in significant declines in productivity. The most pressing impact was the one on
poverty, which tripled within just 10 years from 20 percent at independence in 1991 to 63
percent in 1999.
After the fall of the Soviet Union, banking services to the rural areas were available
through AgroPromBank, which was liquidated in 1994 because of bankruptcy Since then,
access to banking services has been minimal for the small- and medium-sized farmers and
enterprises both in urban and rural areas due to high risks and administrative costs. In
these circumstances, credit is available to them only through loans given by intemational
donor institutions such as Mercy Corps, FINCA (Finance and Credit Association, a US based
NGOj etc. These usually involve schemes in which money is provided to an informal group
and all members bear loint responsibility for the loan However, merely providing credit
could not ensure sustained development. The Government, therefore, decided that the
best solution was the creation of locally owned financial intermediaries such as credit
unions.
DEVELOPMENT OF CREDIT UNIONS IN THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
In August 1996 the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBKR) with technical assistance
of ADB initiated pilot project on credit unions (CUs) in the Kyrgyz Republic, the Rural Financial
Institutions Project Three tnal credit unions were established in different regions, and a
special department of the NBKR worked full-time with these CUs. The project itself, approved
in November 1997, envisages the development, over a penod of seven years, of a credit
union system comprising a network of about 280 individual CUs and an apex institution-
Financial Company for Support and Development of Credit Unions (FCSCU). The goal is to
mobilize rural savings and provide smaller-sized and generally short-to-medium term loans.
CUs are considered as cooperative financial institutions that must be registered as legal
entities and licensed by the National Bank. Each CU is expected to have an average of about
100 members. The individual CUs are to offer both savings and lending services to members.
The FCSCU is to promote, develop, monitor, and supervise the CUs.
As the project goal is not lust to provide loans to people for current needs, but to create
institutions that would be permanent financial providers, promotion of the CUs has needed
huge efforts Taking into account that credit unions were a new and unknown type of
This paperwaswntten byAinura Kyptchakbaeva Ms Kyptchakbaeva istheGeneral Directorofthe SettlementandSavings
Company, under the Central Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic



A Kyptchakbaeva: Credit Unions In the Kyrgyz Republic  79
institution, FCSCU spent much time explaining to people their objectives and principles, and
training them to be managers and accountants of CUs Special regulations on establishing
and operating credit unions were prepared and approved by the NBKR.
FCSCU has conducted the following activities: (i) assistance in establishment of credit
unions; (ii) consulting services and practical assistance to credit unions; (iii) creation of a
regulatory and supervisory base for credit unions; and (iv) financial services to credit unions.
At the very initial stages of building the system, especially in circumstances of low incomes
and savings of the population, credit unions needed additional donor funds. Credit unions
are allowed by the legislation to receive an initial matching loan from the FCSCU, if it meets
the following criteria: (a) it has a minimum paid in share capital of Som5O,000; and (b) it has
established appropriate lending arrangements. The matching loan in this case must be
equal to a CU's total paid in share capital.
By 1 October 1999, 152 credit unions had been registered all over the republic and
licensed as non-commercial financial institutions. They served more than 6,000 people,
68.5 percent of them from rural areas. Total capital is Kyrgyz Som 24,648,000 (equivalent of
$587,000). The total loan portfolio is Kyrgyz Som 34,422,000 (equivalent of $819,600). The
repayment rate in credit unions is high at 91.5 percent of total loans outstanding. Credit
unions are more popular in the rural areas
Evidence of the high activity of the population involved in the process of the creation of
the CU system is the establishment of the Consultative Committee, which comprises
representatives from 10 CUs. The Consultative Committee represents the interests of the
CUs and provides operational feedback on the development of the CU network.
OBJECTIVES AND ORGANIZATION OF CREDIT UNIONS
The objectives and principles of CUs are founded on the philosophy of cooperation and
the central values of equality, equity, and mutual self-help. At the heart of these principles
is the concept of human development expressed through people working together to
achieve a better life for themselves and their children.
The objectives of these noncommercial financial institutions are, (i) the promotion of
thrift among their members by the accumulation of their savings; (ii) the creation of sources
of credit for the benefit of their members at a fair but commercial rate of interest; (iii) the use
and control of members' savings for their mutual benefit; and (iv) educating the members to
enhance economic, social, and cultural harmony. The membership of CUs consists of persons
with certain common bonds including bond of occupation, residence, or employment by a
common employer.
To establish a CU, not less then 10 persons are needed. Each CU has to have paid-up
capital of at least Som3O,000 before being eligible to obtain a license from NBKR to operate.
Operating Principles of Credit Unions
All CUs operate in accordance with several principles, as follows:
Open Membership: Membership in a CU is voluntary and open to all within the accepted
common bond who can make use of its services and are willing to accept the corresponding
responsibilities.
Democratic Control, CU members have equal rights to vote (one member, one vote) and
participate in decisions affecting the CU, without regard to their amount of share capital or
deposits, or their volume of business. The CU is autonomous, within the framework of law
and regulation, and it is recognized as an entity, owned and controlled by its members.



80     Chapter 3 2. Rural Development and Poverty
To run a credit union Its members choose a group of at least three persons from among
their ranks to serve as a board of directors Also, they choose a group to be a credit committee,
and another to be on a supervisory committee
General meetings of members of a CU approve interest rates, credit, and budgeting
policies. The Board of Directors controls daily operations, the services offered and all major
decisions about the CU The Credit committee is responsible for the execution of credit
policy, disbursement of loans, and collecting loans. A supervisory committee conducts regular
checks of all procedures These bodies report key events at the annual general meeting.
Elected offices are voluntary in nature and the holders of these offices do not receive salary
for fulfilling their duties. However, their legitimate expenses may be reimbursed.
Minimization of nsks To minimize nsks in the activity of a CU. (i) the maximum paid in
share capital of any member is not to exceed 10 percent of the total paid in capital of the
CU; (ii) the loan to a member of a CU is not to exceed three times the saving share of this
member, and not to exceed 15 percent of share capital of the CU; and (iii) every loan to a
member must be sanctioned against collateral
Member Services and Distribution
Specific services and a distribution of profits are provided to members of CUs. Services
are provided exclusively to the members of CUs. They are directed towards improving the
economic and social well-being of all members rather then towards the maximizing of
surpluses At the initial stage credit unions accumulate savings from members only in the
form of shares There is a provision in the legislation that only mature credit unions will be
allowed to attract deposits, subject to special permission of the NBKR. Credit unions charge
affordable loan rates-almost the lowest available. In the Kyrgyz Republic, most members
join a CU in order not to save but borrow money Because of this CUs make small, short-term
loans.
To encourage savings, and thus to provide loans and other services, a fair rate of return
is paid on members' savings, within the capacity of the CU. The surplus arising out of the
CU's operations, belongs to and benefits all members. This surplus is distnbuted among
members at the end of a year as dividends in proportion to their saving shares, or directed
towards improved or additional services. Owing to the low cost of CU's business and the
high repayment rate, CUs can afford competitive dividends on members' shares.
CONCLUSIONS
All the necessary conditions for the successful development and operation of a credit
union system are present in the Kyrgyz Republic. The temporary Rules on Credit Unions'
activity were replaced by the Law on Credit Unions, adopted by the Parliament of the Republic
in October 1999. The regulations of the NBKR on CU's activities are being improved according
to practical experience and the current situation.
Looking to the future development of the credit union system, efforts are being directed
now to increasing the size of existing CUs, not expanding the total number This strategy is
being implemented because: (i) only large credit unions can be sound and sustainable and
can provide appropriate services to their members with lower cost; (ii) large mature CUs will
be able to increase a number of services and attract deposits from members, (iii) the training
and supervision of large credit unions can be more effective; and (iv) only large CUs can
afford the ownership of a cooperative bank, which is necessary for their success.



L Zhang Poverty Reduction at the Beginning of the New Millennium In China  81
POVERTY REDUCTION AT THE BEGINNING OF
THE NEW MILLENNIUM: CHALLENGES FOR THE PRC28
Over the last several decades, the PRC Government has made unrelenting efforts to
reduce rural poverty, and has several achievements in this respect Since the mid-1 980s,
chronic food and clothing shortages have been reduced for more than 200 million rural
poor people. Further, the living and working conditions of the poorer areas have been
matenally improved during this time, along with increased incomes. Social services provided
to the poor, including basic education, job training, and health care, have been greatly
enhanced. Yet much more effort will be needed as PRC begins the new century. This paper
briefly reviews some of the key approaches to reducing poverty and discusses the future of
poverty reduction and development in the PRC.
POVERTY ALLEVIATION AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES
The first step towards formulating development strategies is to define the standards
and scope for assistance. This begins with the construction of the operative poverty line.
Given the fact that there is still a large proportion of low-income poor, the current poverty
line is based on the per capita net income of farmers. The income level thus determined is
equivalent to the minimum expenditure needed for subsistence21 Using this poverty line,
the number of rural poor who face critical food and clothing problems has been reduced to
about 42 million through the new poverty initiatives now in place, as of the end of 1998.
The main approaches and strategies adopted by the PRC Govemment In reducing poverty
and promoting development include-
shifting from a "blood transfer" approach to "blood generation" approach Experience
over the past few decades suggests that a general relief approach based on subsidies
and hand-outs can only temporarily solve the living difficulties of the poor. It cannot
lead to the sustained reduction of poverty. Therefore, our new poverty alleviation
initiatives rely more on tapping the capacities and wisdom of local communities and
officials. With the essential support from the Central Government, the new approach
strives to harness the local natural resources, promote market-oriented production,
and enhance the development of local capacity and self-development;
* focusing on sustainable development of the poor areas. Poverty reduction initiatives
are now closely integrated with the development of education, science and technology,
culture, health care, family planning, and ecological improvement. This comprehensive
approach is intended to link the reduction of poverty to social progress in a coordinated
fashion,
* increasing funds for poverty reduction and improving the efficient use of funds The
Central Government budget allocated for poverty eradication and human development
has increased annually for the past several years. In 1999, the Central Government
funds earmarked for poverty alleviation reached Y24 8 billion At the same time, local
governments are required to contribute additional proportional funding from their own
28 This paper was written by Zhang Lei Mr Zhang Is the Deputy Director General of the PRC State Council Leading
Group Office on Poverty In the Peoples Republic of China
"" The rural poverty line In the PRC Is about $0 66 at International standards This compares with Y635 per capita
Income in 1998 at 1985 Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) prices The intemational poverty line of $1 a day per capita
income compares with Y947 in 1999 at 1985 PPP



82     Chapter 32 Rural Development and Poverty
budgets in addition, to ensure the efficiency of fund utilization, the Central Government
has formulated 'Management Regulations on the National Poverty Alleviation Funds;"
improved targeting of programs to poor households. Development of agriculture and
animal husbandry activities are increasingly emphasized as well as agro-processing
industries as a means to increase the income of the poor farmers. Two types of programs
are targeted to the poor the first entails direct assistance to poor households by local
Party members and officials and capable households, the second delivers poverty
alleviation funds to the poor through micro-finance mechanisms;
* mobilizing domestic social forces to participate in poverty reduction Fully 138 central
government ministries and departments have been organized to assist 325 nationally
designated poverty counties. Further, under the "East-West Poverty Reduction and
Economic Cooperation Program," 13 coastal provinces and municipalities were organized
to help 10 poorer hinterland provinces and municipalities. This sort of cross-community
support will be important to the poverty eradication effort; and
* actively seeking the cooperation of the international community. International
organizations or foreign governments have supported scores of poverty reduction
programs in the PRC, including projects funded by the World Bank. The Government is
currently looking into ways to support poverty projects in collaboration with ADB. The
poverty eradication process can clearly be accelerated through international
cooperation. The Govemment can also draw on the lessons learned and best practices
from successful international expenences to help improve the effectiveness of our efforts.
A primary goal of the National 8/7 Poverty Reduction Plan is to eliminate food, clothing,
and basic living problems for the rural poor In order to achieve this end, the Government is
intensifying program efforts In June 1999, the Central Party Committee and the State Council
held a National Working Conference on Poverty Reduction and Development The conference
mobilized all social forces to participate in these initiatives As a result of the new initiatives,
we are confident that another 20 million rural poor can be lifted out of poverty in the next
two years.
CONCLUSIONS
In the new century, the PRC wants to further intensify the work on poverty eradication
and economic development There remain more than 20 million poor who are still faced
with serious subsistence living problems. Using the World Bank's more generous dollar-a-
day poverty line, there are still 117 million poor rural Chinese. Further, the living and working
conditions in the poor areas have not changed fundamentally These populations are so
vulnerable to natural disasters that any calamity will cause many people to slip back into
extreme poverty. Finally, it will be a long process to change completely the social and
economic backwardness of the poor rural areas and minimize the regional disparities in
living conditions
In view of these factors, the Government believes that the basic solution to the
subsistence living problems of the rural poor is merely one step in the poverty reduction
and development process. in the new century, poverty reduction endeavors will focus on a
level of development beyond the subsistence standard The State Council Leading Office on
Poverty is prepanng the poverty alleviation and development programs that will lead the
PRC into the new millennium



H Morales When Does Agrarian Reforn Work for the Filipino Poor?  83
WHEN DOES AGRARIAN REFORM WORK
FOR THE FIUPINO POOR?30
INTRODUCTION
Historically, there have been many examples of agrarian and land reform movements
led by govemments, such as in PRC, lapan, Republic of Korea, Taipei, China, and Viet Nam.
These experiences suggest that agrarian reform works best under an authoritarian state
because the State is able to curtail landlord opposition, effectively subsidize increased
produictivity, and enable more capital accumulation. Land reform in a democratic setting
faces more challenges. This is illustrated by the Philippine experience. Implementation under
democracy means a lesser reliance on previous "dirigiste" models of State intervention and
greater reliance on fully functioning markets to offset asset and consumption inequalities.
International scholarship on agrarian reform clearly spells out the positive effects of
redistribution on incomes, health, and education. But these effects were created in less than
democratic circumstances, where landlord opposition was suppressed and where
redistribution was swiftly undertaken
This paper examines recent agrarian reform efforts in the Philippines and discusses
shortcomings of those reforms and future plans. It is organized in four sections The first
section briefly examines the connection between agrarian reforms and poverty reduction
The second section bnefly describes the country's agrarian reform program. The third section
discusses the program's impact on rural markets and how it influences the evolution of
social capital in rural areas. The final section reviews some opportunity costs of continuance
of the agrarian reform program and spill-over effects to other social concerns.
THE PHIIUPPINE AGRARIAN REFORM PROGRAM
Republic Act 6657 or the Comprehensive Agranan Reform Law operates within a broad
context. The Agrarian Reform Program that is being implemented by the Department of
Agrarian Reform (DAR) weaves together the three aspects of land tenure improvement,
program beneficiary development, and the delivery of agrarian justice. It is in the context of
this law that land ownership support services were provided to farmers.
The literature on the significance of land redistnbution denves from an analysis of the
inverse relationship between farm size and output per unit of land. The advantages of small-
scale farming refer mainly to labor-intensive production processes. The inverse relationship
tends to break down where the most efficient ways of production require capital intensive
technologies that allow large farms to capture economies of scale.
The Government has an important role to play in the process of carrying out
administrative reforms, such as the formal registration of land titling Such a land reform
process results in static and dynamic effects Under the static effects, land transfer is facilitated
and the efficiency of land use will increase. With the dynamic effects, since farmers are
better assured of reaping the future benefits from their land, they have more incentives to
invest in the land and are able to access capital by using their land as collateral.
The program mandates that landowners be compensated for their land based upon a
price that is either too high for farmers to repay directly or too low for landowners to
voluntarily give up their land. A retention limit is set across all crops without consideration
30 This paper was written by Horaclo R Morales Mr Morales is the Secretary of the Department of Agranan Reform
in the Phillppines



84     Chapter 32 Rural Development and Poverty
of scale economies and beneficiaries are prevented from accessing land markets or to use
their land as collateral for the first ten years after land transfer. However, in the Philippine
case, agranan reform has been constantly delayed due to landlord opposition and the
deferment in coverage of some crops by the Congress. These limitations place an inordinately
heavy burden upon the state to provide support services to beneficiaries.
PHILIPPINE AGRARIAN REFORM AND POVERTY REDUCTION
of the Philippines' total agricultural land, about 8 million ha are covered under the
Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP) As of June 1998, a total of 4 7 million ha of
land had already been transferred by the Department of Agranan Reform (DAR) and the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) to some 3.2 million rural families.
In areas where all or a majonty of lands have been placed under CARP coverage, and where
Agrarian Reform Communities (ARCs) have been established, the benefits accruing from
government subsidies for infrastructure and directed credit have resulted in income gains.
In these communities, new irrigation facilities, farm-to-market roads, and storage facilities,
plus the emphasis on matching agnbusiness entrepreneurs and companies with agranan
reform beneficiaries, resulted in increased market access and higher off-farm and non-farm
incomes.
Yet, smaller land holdings are making it more difficult for farm households to depend
upon farm incomes alone. Studies for the Belgian Agrarian Reform Support Project show
very small land parcels for beneficiaries, amounting to an average of 1 57 ha each This is
much less than the 1991 Census of Agriculture national average of 2.14 ha. The 1997-1998
research conducted by NGO Management and Organizational Development for
Empowerment, Inc. (MODE) on rice farms showed that economic viability required at least
two to three ha of land per household. This may explain why 49 percent of the study's
respondents depended on non-farm sources of income, higher than the 45 percent who
depended on on-farm income. Six percent were dependent on off-farm income sources.
At a national level, aggregate evidence on the direct effects of land redistribution in
recent episodes of economic growth is tentative and scarce. Studies conducted by the UN
Food and Agriculture Organization's SARC-TSARRD (Agranan Reform Community Technical
Assistance Project) program indicate rapid increases in income in selected ARCs that are
above the norm, sometimes averaging as much as 200 percent in the advanced ARCs or as
low as 20 percent in the less developed ARCs. A more recent survey, conducted by the
Institute for Agrarian and Urban Development Studies in 1998 (formerly UP-IAST), found that
more than half of Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries. interviewed rated themselves as being
better off after CARP, even though a majonty (70 percent) remain below the poverty threshold
of P75,000 ($1,900 for a household of six) However, a national data sample of the Institute of
Agrarian Studies of the University of the Philippines in Los Banos (UP-LAST), resurveyed by
MODE in 1997 to 1998, show that income increased due to nonpayment of rent rather than
from an increase in farm investments and productivity.
It is also a central task to identify the spillover effects of the program on such indicators
as urban poverty, agricultural diversification, and agricultural investments. The World Bank
is presently conducting a study of CARP's impact on rural productivity, investments, and
other social needs, as part of the impact assessment on agrarian reforms in the Philippines,
sponsored by ADB, UNDP, and others.
RURAL MARKETS AND SOCIAL CAPITAL
One direct effect of the flawed institutional design of CARP is that more barriers to
effective functioning of rural markets have been established. A recent study conducted by
the DAR Policy Advisory Group shows, for example, how factor share calculations in joint



H Morales When Does Agrarian Reformn Work for the Filipino Poor?  85
venture arrangements are determined less by the marginal contribution of land to the
production process, but more by the bargaining power and access to information of
beneficiaries and their associations, plus the weak fiscal basis of local states. if factor shares
are priced high, landowners will be able to secure bigger profits from the sale of land, creating
a perverse incentive to sell rather than invest in agricultural modemization. The inflationary
result will increase the burden on the agrarian reform beneficiary or the cooperative.
On the part of beneficiaries, a high factor share increases their rental streams and
equity share in a joint venture enterprise. However, it also increases their renting-in costs
and their effective amortization costs. The prohibition on beneficiaries to fully transfer, sell,
or convey the titles of their land to buyers or to institutional sources of credit prevent them
from accessing the collateral value of their lands in credit markets, or to shift to non-farm
employment and livelihood opportunities. These have damaging effects: they drag out the
process of land transfer and tenure improvement.
The foregoing is also indicative of the problems in social capital formation in agrarian
reform communities Instead of evolving trust, the institutional design of the program creates
some barners to fulfilling expectations among beneficiaries. In the banana and pineapple
plantation sector that is now to be covered by redistribution, intense and often violent
conflicts have broken out between various beneficiary groups negotiating leaseback or joint
venture arrangements.
After the downfall of the Marcos government in the mid 1980s a proposal was made to
abolish direct payment schemes and legal ties between landowner and peasant by paying
the landlords a one-shot payment equivalent to P600 pesos ($15) per hectare. The absence
of any strong contract enforcement mechanism, in the case of contracted prices between
producers and traders or end-users, further aggravates the problem, and sets back the aims
of agricultural diversification.
Strengthening horizontal linkages between beneficianes and between beneficiaries and
buyers and other external agents can contribute to mitigating the negative effects of agrarian
reform institutions fostered by the State, but they cannot substitute for undertaking agrarian
reform as a precondition for market-led growth. Studies have shown that mere improvements
in productivity, or increased employment brought about by economic clustenng such as
ARCs or agnbusiness investments is insufficient in eradicating poverty in inegalitarian agranan
economies.
POLICY COHERENCE AND INTERSECTORAL COORDINATION
There are at least three important aspects to consider in terms of policy coherence and
intersectoral coordination
First, is the strategy of the State in bringing together all the rural line agencies and the
CARP implementing agencies to focus resources for broad based and sustained agricultural
growth and poverty eradication The expectation is that economic clustering within ARCs or
within the recently conceptualized Strategic Agricultural and Fisheries Zones will facilitate
positive spillover effects on health, education, peoples capabilities, and even on urban
poverty
Second, is the joint effort of civil society groups, government, and the pnvate sector to
shape a coherent strategy for poverty eradication and implement the social reform agenda
The National Anti-Poverty Commission (NAPC) is expected to bring about greater formal
coordination between initiatives of the Government, the private sector, and the private
voluntary sector to eradicate poverty



86     Chapter 3 2. Rural Development and Poverty
And third is the coherence of agrarian reform and poverty eradication initiatives with
preparations for global competitiveness. This includes government preparations for a new
round of multilateral trade talks under the World Trade Organization (WTO), and current
government trade positioning within APEC and the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA). The
Philippine Govemment's position in these organizations should be informed by the food
security and poverty eradication objectives of all stakeholders, including the private sector
and civil society groups. In the case of globalization, the effects of the recent economic crisis
appear to validate the general unpreparedness of the country for competition. Moreover,
continued high levels of protection and subsidies for industry translate into higher
redistributive costs.
CONCLUSION: THE FUTURE OF PHILIPPINE AGRARIAN REFORM
To ensure that market-led strategies actually reach the poor, DAR believes that it can
no longer transfer land without integrating the means that will transform beneficiaries into
sustainable farmer-entrepreneurs Thus, the department has embarked on an integrated,
differentiated, and demand-dnven approach to land tenure improvement and program
beneficiary development.
Three steps are being taken in this direction First, the DAR has recently launched the
MAGKASAKA (Farm Partnerships) Program and is about to launch a Farmers lYust Program
that is designed to promote joint venture arrangements and facilitate the flow of agri-agra
funds into the countryside. Both projects fall within the framework of averting risks in
agncultural production by providing insurance and other fund guarantee schemes, coupled
with traditional investments in imgation and rural infrastructure Ultimately the plan is to
be able to act as an intermediary between producers and entrepreneurs.
Second, the DAR is about to finish the feasibility study and the operational manual for
the piloting of a community managed agrarian reform program. This is where local
communities are placed in the driver's seat in initiating productive sub-projects in lands
secured through the willing seller-willing buyer principle. Building upon community designed
and managed activity substantiates, our commitment is to the full blossoming of social
capital in both rural and urban areas.
Third, the DAR is committed to pursuing an integrated approach to program design
and service delivery through a convergent strategy involving DAR, the Department of
Agriculture, and DENR The objective is to jointly improve the capabilities of public sector
service providers through intensive skills development, reduction in red tape and corruption,
and improved transparency and public accountability
The World Bank acknowledged in 1997 that an effective state should have the capacity
to move from functional and intermediate roles to undertake "activist functions" such as
asset redistribution and the fostering of markets.
This entails massive institutional capacity on the part of the State, and an understanding
of the appropnate relationship between state, market, and civil society. It also underscores
the decisive nature of agranan reform as a precondition for a developing country government
to eradicate poverty and ensure broad-based and sustainable economic growth.
CONCLUSION
The paper has argued that agrarian reform works for the poor, in particular the Filipino
poor, when it enables market-led growth strategies to reach the poor Reform must continue
and be reinforced following the initial reform efforts. The results of initial reform are inherently
unstable, and since the rural poor tend to be socially differentiated over time, agrarian
reform programs must have both short and long term objectives.



H Morales When Does Agrarian Reform Work for the Filipino Poor?  87
REFERENCES
Balisacan, Arsenio 1999 "What Do We Really Know or Don't Know about Economic Inequality
and Poverty in the Philippines." In. Balisacan and Fujisaki (eds) Causes of Poverty Myths,
Facts & Policies. Diliman, Quezon City, University of the Philippines Press.
Binswanger, Hans, and Elgin, Miranda. 1998. 'Refl6ctions on Land Reform and Farm Size"
Reprinted in:lntemationalAgnculturalDevelopment, Eicher and Staatz (eds), Third Edition
Baltimore and London: John Hopkins University Press.
Dyer, G. 1996. 'Output per Acre and Size of Holding: The Logic of Peasant Agriculture Under
Semi-Feudalism." In. The journal of Peasant Studies, Vol. 24, No 1-2, October 1 996/lanuary
1997
Institute of Agranan and Urban Development Studies, College of Public Affairs, UP Los Banos.
1998 "Current State of Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries: Its Implications to CARP." IARD, UP
Los Banos, November 1998.
Institute of Agrarian Studies, UP Los Banos. 1998. Final Report: Baseline Survey in 11 Agrarian
Reform Communities Covered by BARSP. IAST, UP Los Banos, Apnl 1998.
Lara, F., et al. "Agrarian Reform in Rubber Plantation and Development Alternatives." Research
paper on Development Management, DESTIN, London School of Economics, London,
May 1997.
Management and Organizational Development for Empowerment (MODE). 1998. National
Re-survey of the 1989 IAST ARB survey. Quezon City: MODE.
Monsod, Solita Collas, and Toby Monsod 1999. "International and Intranational Comparisons
of Philippine Poverty." In Balisacan and Fujisaki (eds) Causes of Poverty Myths, Facts &
Policies. Diliman, Quezon City University of the Philippines Press.
Policy Advisory Group. 1999 "Factor Shares in Commercial Croplands." In: Ed Tadem (ed),
Compilation of Policy Studies on Agrarian Reform. 1998-1999. PAG-PRIDI, March 1999
Ruttan, Vemon, and Hayami, Yuhiro. "Induced Innovation Model of Agricultural Development."
In: Food Research Institute Studies in Agricultural Economics, Trade, and Development 9,
No. 2,1972. Reprinted in: international Agncultural Development, Eicher and Staatz (eds),
Third Edition. Baltimore and London: John Hopkins University Press.
Yuhiro, Hayami, MA. Quisumbing, and L Adriano. 1990. Toward an Alternative Land Reform
Paradigm A Philippine Perspective Quezon City: Ateneo de Manila University Press.






Social Safety Nets
FALLING THROUGH SAFETY NETS AND BUILDING ON PILLARS OF
SOCIAL PROTECTION: SUMMARY OF PANEL AND WORKSHOP
DISCUSSIONS AT THE MANILA SoCIaL FORUM31
ELEMENTS OF SOCIAL PROTECTION SYSTEMS FOR ASIA
The Asian crisis and its aftermath have served to highlight the importance of social
safety nets and social protection policies in general as essential components of healthy
economies. Most countries in the region invoked some combination of expanding existing
safety net programs and hastily implementing new ones to address the increasing oblessness,
poverty, and vulnerability resulting from the crisis. However, many of these same countries
discovered that implementing piecemeal public programs in reaction to the crisis was
unsatisfactory. A key issue for the Asia region is how best to establish country-specific systems
of social protection that can lessen the impacts of future shocks.
ESTABLISHING THE SOCIAL PROTECTION SYSTEM
There is a growing consensus that social protection should be seen as an investment in
human capital and as a set of proactive instruments to promote equity and growth. It should
not simply be viewed as a reaction to the plight of the most vulnerable in crisis conditions.
Publicly provided programs represent only one set of mechanisms to manage social risk. A
social protection system also incorporates informal and market based arrangements such
as individual household savings, support from relatives, or private insurance. Indeed,
throughout much of Asia, pnvate households provide the major share of funding for risk
management Care must be taken to design public safety nets and social protection
interventions that do not promote dependency on public assistance and do not crowd out
private mechanisms.
Information is critical for a well functioning system. Systematic information on poverty,
on vulnerable groups, and on program costs and expenditures is essential to assess the
impact of program interventions on beneficiaries, and is essential in improving and designing
new programs. Attention needs to be paid to putting in place the appropriate information
gathering and processing institutions to support the social protection system. These
institutions exist in places, but too often governments are relying on the analysis of outside
institutions to provide the needed information. In order for social protection to be sustainable,
countries must be able to design, monitor, evaluate, and implement programs without outside
assistance.
Social protection should be a participatory process. Evidence indicates that successful
interventions are those where communities and civil society are directly involved throughout
the process. There is a need to develop innovative mechanisms for providing assistance,
including looking to the private sector. The Mahalla program in Uzbekistan provides an
3 This paper was written by )ohn Blomquist As consultant to the ADB, Mr. slomquist helped organize the
Manila Social Forum He is now with the World Banks Social Protection Network.



90     Chapter 4 Social Safety Nets
interesting example of direct community involvement in the targeting and administration
of public benefits
ISSUES OF PROGRAM DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION
The design and implementation of specific programs should occur only after a thorough
assessment of the social risks, notably for the population groups primarily vulnerable to
those nsks. Experience with existing interventions suggests several aspects of programs
and the policy environment that deserve prionty consideration. Among these are program
adequacy, benefit targeting, institutional structure, prevailing budget and other constraints,
and overall sustainability.
Adequacy. Public interventions are costly to manage and administer. Therefore it is
essential that program benefits provide significant assistance to recipients to justify
the costs Many current programs do not satisfy this most basic criterion. Benefits from
pension programs or direct cash transfers are frequently not sufficient to meet minimum
consumption needs. The piecemeal implementation of many initiatives has also resulted
in a significant overlap of beneficianes and objectives, leading to an unwieldy and
inadequate safety net.
* Targeting. In keeping with the need for adequacy, limited resources need to be well-
targeted to meet the needs of the vulnerable who will benefit most. Examples of
interventions in which unintended recipients benefit disproportionately are all too
common, including "leakages" of benefits to the nonpoor from public works and other
safety net programs Further, many pensions and unemployment insurance mechanisms
do not cover vast segments of the needy population, particularly in the informal sector.
* Institutional structure Public programs often involve heavy administrative and oversight
demands. Emphasis should be placed on developing the necessary institutional capacity
to implement programs Developing capacity involves setting up monitoring and
evaluation units for programs, training staff to manage and implement interventions,
and developing the means to coordinate effectively between government agencies or
ministnes involved.
* Constraints. Consideration should be given to the financial, infrastructure, political, or
cultural constraints that will affect program operation. Design options are available to
reduce or circumvent these constraints, including involving the private sector more
prominently in the provision of programs, or relying on a more decentralized approach
to program management. How countnes deal with these constraints will vary. There is
no single best social protection system.
* Sustainability. Social protection interventions should be in place pnor to a crisis situation
and should be designed to be sustainable. Program sustainability involves ensuring
that costs are manageable within the budget framework, that financing and benefit
delivery mechanisms are secured for the planned future, and that the program is
consistent with the existing policy and regulatory frameworks. it is difficult to create an
effective social protection system quickly under cnsis conditions, as illustrated by the
experiences of Thailand and Indonesia
CONCLUSION: THE WAY FORWARD
Individuals and families cannot cope alone with the social nsks inherent in participation
in the economy. There is a role for the state in risk management through the provision of
social protection programs However, more attention should be paid to assessing the risks,
vulnerable groups, and potential interventions in the context of the priorities and constraints
faced by society.



I Blomquist Social Protection: Failing Through Nets and Building on Pillars  91
Govemments have become increasingly aware of the need for sound policies, highlighted
by the interest in social protection raised in regional forums such as APEC. The international
community is devoting increasing attention to the value pf effective social protection policies
in the fight against poverty. Both the World Bank and the ADB reflect social protection
assistance in their planned operational programs. The next step is to work together to
utilize the experiences of government, civil society, and intemational institutions to create
country-specific social protection systems.



92      Chapter 4 'Social Safety Nets
EMERGING LESSONS ON SOCIAL SAFETY NETS32
INTRODUCTION: WHAT, WHY, AND WHY NOT?
Social safety net programs were not often discussed in policy circles in the East Asia
region even three years ago. It was largely accepted that the tremendous export-onented
growth of the Asian Tiger economies would continue, further reducing poverty and improving
conditions for the poor as a byproduct. The cnsis changed the discussion, putting poverty
alleviation, safety nets and social protection on the policy agenda. This note briefly
summarizes experiences with safety nets in Asia and points to emerging lessons for the
future.
It is useful to begin by highlighting the meaning of safety nets The discussions
surrounding this policy area have used a variety of terminology to refer to similar but distinct
concepts, including social safety nets, social assistance, welfare, and social protection. In
the following discussion, formal safety nets refer to programs that provide or substitute for
income. These include. i) cash or cash-like transfers such as family allowances, unemployment
allowances, and public works, and ii) in-kind transfers such as food stamps and subsidized
public services. Similarly, informal safety nets refer to private mechanisms that provide or
substitute for income, including personal assets and assistance from friends or relatives.
Why are formal safety nets needed? The traditional view is that they protect consumption
and provide support during hard times. An altemative view expands on the traditional to
regard safety nets as a social investment. According to this view, safety nets reduce or
mitigate social risk, in turn promoting risky but high return investments in human capital
and productivity which benefit society. Further, safety nets create a floor for living standards
which promotes social cohesion, as well as limiting irreversible losses to vulnerable
households.
Yet safety nets have costs. First, there are incentive costs in that there is a tendency for
recipients of safety net programs to work less than they otherwise would Second, there is
the possibility that public safety nets will substitute for, or crowd out informal mechanisms
thereby increasing the social cost of providing the programs Finally, there are administrative
costs in terms of the institutional capacity, the information, and the management and delivery
of programs.
SAFETY NETS IN EAST ASIA
Throughout much of Asia, formal social safety nets tend to account for only a small part
of govemment budgets, reflecting both policy prionties and a strong culture of self-help
Chart 2 shows that public spending on social security and welfare is lower in East and South
Asia than in either Latin America or OECD countnes. As a consequence of the lower spending,
public transfers are a very small part of average household incomes in Asia For example, in
both the Thailand and the Philippines, recent data shows that public transfers amount to
less than 2 percent of average household incomes. Private transfers, however, amount to 8
and 11 percent of household incomes in the two countries, respectively
32 This paper was wntten by Emmanuel Jimenez and John Blomquist Mr Jimenez is the Sector Director for the
Educaton Sector Unit South Asia of the World Bank. Mr Blomquist is now in the World Banks Social Protection
Network. As consultant to the ADB, he helped organize the Manila Social Forum



E Jimenez Emerging Lessons on Social Security Nets  93
Chart 2: Public Sector Spending on Social Security and Welfare
In Asia and other regions
Spending as a percent of total
gover ment expenditure
12 7
12               .                           1
8
4                -3.6
2.2
1.0
0 ~ ~    ~    ~   ...                 ......_
East Asia    Latin      South Asia     OECD
America     Slt sa         OC
Safety net programs in Asian countries tend to be targeted to specific population groups
and are aimed at increasing economic participation through work programs and micro-
credit schemes Formal insurance mechanisms such as unemployment insurance and
pensions typically have lower coverage rates than in other regions.
EMERGING LESSONS
Based on the experience of safety net programs in Asia and elsewhere, several lessons
for the future are emerging,
* Spending must increase during cnses. Spending on social safety nets should be
countercyclical and should increase during crisis conditions. Informal mechanisms help,
but are often insufficient in the face of covariate shocks that affect large groups of the
population at the same time In the years immediately following the onset of the crisis,
many Asian countries responded with increased spending on safety nets, including
Indonesia, Republic of Korea and Malaysia. Conversely, when faced with a similar crisis,
safety net spending in Russia actually declined.
* Institutional response is limited by country conditions. The ability of governments to
scale-up existing programs or to design and implement new programs quickly depends
on the prevailing conditions, including the coordination between ministries responsible
for programs, the delivery mechanisms in place, and the political will of the govemment
* Information is cntical Reliable, timely information on poverty and vulnerability is vital
to developing safety nets programs Without it, govemments cannot adjust to changing
economic conditions. Country-specific safety nets are key to successful policies. For
example, available evidence indicates that urban population groups were more affected
by the crisis than others in Indonesia, but this was not the case in Thailand. This
information can be used to develop safety nets that target effectively.
* Appropriate targeting methods should be used. Several methods are available, including
needs-based targeting, geographic targeting, community targeting and self-targeting,
with the choice of method depending on available information and administrative
cost. In general, needs based cash transfers are preferable to general food subsidies.



94     Chapter 4 Social Safety Nets
However, the cost of subsidies can be reduced if linked to other target-related activities
such as paricipation in school or public works programs. Labor intensive public works
provide both short-term income to participants and improvements in infrastructure,
and they are self-targeting The ability to target must be considered when designing
programs.
CONCLUSIONS
Social safety nets can play an important countercyclical role in mitigating the effects of
social nsks While informal mechanisms such as family transfers can help in the face of
temporary idiosyncratic shocks, they are generally insufficient under widespread crisis
conditions. The effectiveness of publicly provided safety nets can be improved with continued
advances in information gathering and processing, program targeting, and the development
of appropriate institutional mechanisms



I Ortiz: Social Protection and the Asian Development Bank  95
SOCIAL PROTECTION
AND THE ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK33
INTRODUCTION
The overarching mission of the ADB is to help its developing member countries (DMCs)
achieve accelerated and irreversible reductions in poverty. Social protection, as an analytic
concept and lending activity, is an integral component of that mission by making growth
more equitable.
Recent events underscore the need for greater attention to social protection issues in
this region. The crisis countries have discovered that inadequate and under-developed social
protection systems have exposed their working populations to excessive risk, increased the
incidence of poverty, reduced social welfare and threatened to undermine longer-term human
capital investment efforts. Further, many countries in the region that escaped the worst of
the crisis have learned from the experience of their neighbors that improvements in social
protection are important elements in furthering economic and social development, as
urbanization and industrialization gradually undermine the effectiveness of traditional and
informal protection systems. Globalization, while increasing the opportunities for growth,
will also increase the risks of future macroeconomic shocks. As unemployment and poverty
result from economic downtums, issues regarding the adequacy of social protection and
social safety nets to maintain progress made to date, and assure future progress in social
development are being brought to the forefront in many Asian countries.
This paper presents an abbreviated discussion of the increasing importance of social
protection in the work of the Asian Development Bank. It begins by descnbing what is
meant by social protection, followed by a discussion of the relationship between social
protection and the ADB's long-term objectives. Finally, the paper closes with a summary of
the operational implications for the ADB.
A DEFiNITION OF SOCIAL PROTECTION
Social protection is defined as the set of policies and programs designed to promote
efficient and effective labor markets, protect individuals from the risks inherent in earning a
living either from small-scale agriculture or the labor market, and provide a floor of support
to individuals when market-based approaches for supporting themselves fail.
The policies and procedures included in social protection can be thought of as involving
five major kinds of activities.
* labor market policies and programs designed to facilitate labor adjustments and
promote the smooth operation of labor markets;
* social insurance programs to cushion the risks associated unemployment, disability,
work injury, and old age;
social assistance and welfare service programs to provide a floor for those with no other
means of adequate support;
3 This paper is based on the Asian Development Banks Framework for Operations on Social Protection, written In
1999 by I Ortiz, L Thompson, D Lindeman and 1. Blomqulst Ms Ortiz, Economist {Poverty Reduction) at the
Strategy and Pollcy Department of the ADB, is responsible for developing a social protection framework, to become
the social protection strategy of the ADB comments may be sent to Isabel Ortiz, SPD, Asian Development Bank,
Manila, Phillppines, Tel 0063-2-632-44.44, Fax 0063-2-636-2444, e-mail lortizeadb org



96     Chapter 4: Social Safety Nets
* agricultural crop and price insurance to cushion the nsk to agricultural incomes from
crop failure or temporary market disruptions, and
* social funds and other temporary employment generation programs designed to offer
a temporary source of eamed income while enhancing the social infrastructure.
This definition recognizes that social protection encompasses activities that span
those in both the formal and informal sectors and regardless of whether households derive
their incomes from industry, services or agriculture Households in the formal sector will be
reached by labor market interventions and structured social insurance, crop insurance
and social assistance Those in the informal sector are more likely to be reached by less
structured social assistance microinsurance, social funds and other temporary employment
programs, as well as price subsidies for food and energy or price supports to farmers.
Of the five pillars, the three first (labor markets, social insurance and social assistance)
are normally included in any social protection strategy. Given that most of the Asian poor
are rural and part of the informal sector, the ADB must take a fresh look at new instruments
such as integrated insurance, rural programs and social funds. Agricultural insurance provides
the same sort of social protection to small-scale agriculture that the more traditional social
insurance programs supply to the urban labor force. TWo areas of critical importance emerge.
first, exploring options for simplified integrated insurance programs for rural areas, combining
some health, old age and life insurance to sustain livelihoods; second, assessing the trade
off between disaster mitigation operations and the possible economic gains from developing
comprehensive protection mechanisms in Asia.
Social protection issues have become a major concern of the Bank only in the second
half of the 1 990s. The first projects consisted of technical assistance for administrative reform
and improvement of the Mongolian welfare system and safety nets after the transition from
a centrally planned to a market economy The first loan addressing a major social protection
issue involved pension reform in Kazakhstan, where assistance was needed for retrenchment
and restructunng of an over-extended social protection system..Subsequently, Social Sector
Program Loans negotiated with Indonesia and Thailand provided resources for strengthening
institutions that had been weakened by the economic crisis, stop-gap measures to alleviate
some of the longer-term harm that might have otherwise occurred in health an education,
and assistance in creating new approaches to provide social protection As these issues
took on a new urgency at the ADB, the need for more effective coordination strategies
became clear A first step in achieving this objective is a common vocabulary for discussing
social protection issues and a common understanding of their scope.
SOCIAL PROTECTION AND ADB'S LONG-TERM STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
Social protection policies and programs, if designed and implemented properly, can
make a major contnbution to the ADB's overarching mission of reducing poverty. By focusing
on labor markets, social protection is the link between pnvate sector led economic growth
and poverty reduction. Effective social protection policies can contribute to economic growth
by encouraging farmers and workers to take entrepreneunal risks, helping labor markets to
allocate workers to their most productive uses, and facilitating investment in human capital
They also increase social welfare by providing a dependable income secunty base Social
protection, however, is not a substitute for basic measures that promote economic
development and adequate living standards, including core investments in public goods
and the development of efficient and transparent markets.
Social protection should therefore be seen as one of several measures that work together
to promote socially inclusive human development Other kinds programs and prolects
contributing to socially inclusive human development include programs designed specifically



I Ortiz: Social Protection and the Asian Development Bank  97
to improve education and health, promote gender equity, encourage enterprise, and improve
agriculture.
There is a need to balance the potential gains from greater social protection with the
potential losses from market distortions. This will involve careful review of the conditions
under which benefits are provided and the ways in which subsidies are constructed, the
relationship between the value of the assistance offered and prevailing wages or prices, the
incentives established in the program for delaying taking benefits and/or returning to work
as quickly as possible, and the balance between costs and benefits of new regulations.
Social protection strategies will vary from one country to another as a result of differences
in traditions, institutions, and environments. These include differences in countries' pre-
existing institutions and traditions for dealing with social risks, their stage of development,
and their cultures and customs. There is no prescription or preferred social protection model.
An obvious place to begin is with the ability of the program or proposal to achieve its stated
purpose of supplying effective social protection. Such an assessment needs to focus on
considerations such as: (i) the sustainability of the program (except, perhaps for certain
temporary interventions motivated by an economic crisis), (ii) its likely actual coverage, and
(iii) the adequacy and predictability of the support it offers. Investments in program design
and development may not be worthwhile where sustainability is open to question, coverage
is likely to be limited, and benefits are likely either to be too low or to be unreliable. ADB is
researching ways to assess how to expand coverage in its DMCs while maintaining a proper
balance between the social gains from improved protection and sustainability of the social
protection systems.
OPERATIONAL IMPLICATIONS FOR THE ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Within ADB's operations, social protection issues arise in four contexts, (i) developing
country strategies, (ii) policy lending to provide broad budget support with social protection
conditionalities; (iii) project lending for specific invesment components and capacity building
in social protection, and (iv) collateral issues associated with lending where social protection
is not the central objective.
In the context of country strategies and policy loan conditions around social protection,
the key topics will be a country's labor market standards and rigidities, the coverage and
sustainability of existing or emerging social insurance (wage replacement) programs, and
the cost and effectiveness of its overall safety nets.
An ideal relationship with a client country for social protection reform is one in which
policy and project lending takes place in a country strategy that advances reforms (e g.,
liberalizing labor markets or expanding coverage) that the government has taken on in
partnership with the ADB, civil society and the IMF, World Bank, and other donors Well-
developed social protection systems are large and complex undertakings that can become
an integral part of the fabric of a society and have important implications for both social
and economic development. To be effective, social protection strategies should be articulated
in an integrated manner and discussed with all relevant social players as reforms are an
opportunity to rethink the country's social contract This, however, is often not the case, and
reforms are precipitated by crises that have exposed or exacerbated flaws in preexisting
policies (e.g, the withdrawal from centrally planned economies, the Asian financial crisis).
Especially in the latter context, experience suggests that govemments should not be asked
to pursue policies that will require a consensus over time or "time consistency" that has not
yet formed within the society (e.g., structural pension reform usually demands an "all-party"
consensus). A social protection agenda should be framed taking Into account DMCs' national
policies and priorities within the ADB's overarching goal of reducing poverty, assuring that



98     Chapter 4 Social Safety Nets
social protection is integrated with other development activities and into ongoing country
dialogue.
This process of consultation indicates that reforms cannot successfully proceed before
sufficient analysis, planning and participation has been done, including detailed assessments
on whether reforms can be implemented and managed A wide variety of approaches are
available for re-structuring and improving social protection programs but there is no single
prescribed model or solution given the variety of systems and needs in the area. Future
social protection systems in Asia may likely differ from country to country given the multitude
of factors involved.
Social protection project lending is usually designed to enhance the capacity of
govemment institutions to provide social protection benefits or services directly or to regulate
interventions mandated through the private sector. Investment projects may include
components such as active labor market programs, social/rural funds, and social safety net
programs. Common functions in need of strengthening institutional capacity include
collection, data processing and service delivery mechanisms needed to operate formal wage
replacement programs and labor exchanges, capacity to enforce labor market standards,
development of locally-based social assistance agencies and community institutions for
those needing permanent or temporary care, and improved ability to develop and enforce
sound regulation of financial market institutions and their investment policies.
Social protection issues also emerge as important collateral issues in other lending
where social protection policy or capacity building is not the direct object of the loan.
Typical examples are loans dealing with shifts toward market determined pricing of energy,
water, telecommunications, and housing. Ideally these measures should take place after
appropriate regulatory institutions have been created and safety nets established. Often,
however, interim measures may have to be adopted to ease the effects on households (e.g.,
tiered pricing of utilities)
Addressing these social protection issues in a coordinated and systematic way involves
at least two new challenges for the ADB. First, a recognition that social protection involves
complex analytical and technical issues, many of which represent new areas of concern for
the ADB and its DMCs' governments The ADB will need to invest in its own human capital
to acquire the necessary new skills and work capacities Second, social protection policies
and programs must often strike a balance among multiple social and economic objectives,
equity and sustainability concerns. The various multiple objectives have traditionally been
the focus of different units within ADB To assure proper balance among the various
objectives, ADB will need to develop new procedures for managing work and coordinating
efforts among its various units.



R Holzmann: Social Risk Management  99
SociAL RISK MANAGEMENT: THE WORLD BANK'S
NEW   CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK FOR SOC AL PROTECTION34
The recent financial cnsis in East Asia has again demonstrated that individuals, in
particular the poor, are vulnerable to economic down-turns and that past high economic
growth rates and income levels matter little if appropnate safety nets are not in place. The
need for appropriate social risk management instruments to deal with human-caused and
natural shocks goes well beyond public interventions to help individuals cope with the
effects of shocks once they have occurred. A sustained development process and lasting
poverty reduction require a comprehensive set of instruments and public interventions
provided by a multiplicity of actors to assist individuals, households, and communities
better manage risk before and after it strikes
Risk and vulnerability associated with natural disasters, crop failure, war and violence,
illness and injury, old age and death, and job loss and business failure have been present in
the public policy arena for decades, and the more advanced countries have complex
arrangements in place to help manage these risks. Risk and vulnerability have moved more
to center stage in recent times for three reasons:
* globalization of trade in goods, services and factors of production and the increased
inter-connectivity of economies and societies present enormous opportunities for
developing countries to prosper. They also bring risks and increased variability in
outcomes;
* technological change is helping to accelerate the pace of development but at the same
time has the potential to widen the inter-country and intra-country gulf between the
'haves" and the "have-nots;" and
* increased political openness sets the stage for improved govemance by holding those
in power more accountable to larger segments of the population. The poor are finding
their voices and asking for help in managing risk.
People in all income strata around the world are vulnerable to income and welfare
losses associated with shocks, but the poor suffer disproportionately in these situations.
They are typically more exposed to adverse risk while they are less able to protect themselves
due to their lower asset position and endowments; they typically have little access to formal
insurance market arrangements; and downward fluctuations in incomes can be devastating
for them and result in permanent welfare loss. The poor, nonetheless, are very aware of the
risks they face and have developed elaborate mechanisms of "self-protection" such as asset
accumulation (often cattle) in good times, income diversification and informal family and
community "pooling" arrangements. These "self-insurance" and "self-protection"
arrangements are typically relatively expensive and inefficient, and when shocks -erode
productive assets and prevent human capital accumulation (e g., withdrawal of children
from school, inadequate nutrition preventing learning), they can send households into a
spiraling downward trend, into the so-called "vicious cycle of poverty."As households become
poorer and approach extreme poverty and destitution they become very risk averse and
fundamentally lose their ability to manage risk at best, they cope. Thus, beyond conventional
"handout" programs that help the poor deal with the circumstances of poverty, interventions
that act as a springboard, and prevent and mitigate the devastating effects of shocks are
clearly preferable.
3 This paper was written by Robert Holzmann Mr Holzmann is the Director for Social Protection of the World Bank
In Washington, DC.



1 00    Chapter 4 Social Safety Nets
Given the need to go beyond the traditional program definition of Social Protection
(SP)-labor market interventions, social security and social safety nets-in order to deal with
poverty and vulnerability more effectively in a globalizing world, a new definition of SP
based on a conceptual framework of Social Risk Management (SRM) has been developed
(Holzmann and Jorgensen, 1999 and 2000) This new framework constitutes the conceptual
basis for the StrategyPoperof the SocialProtection Sectorin the World Bahk The final approval
process of this strategy document took place early in the year 2000. The SP Strategy Paper
is based on regional strategy papers that will be discussed with the client countries and
published during late 2000.
The proposed definition sees "SP as public interventions to (i) assist individuals,
households, and communities better manage risk, and (ii) provide support to the critical
poor." This definition and the underlying framework of Social Risk Management:
* present SP as a safety net as well as a spring-board for the poor. While a safety net for
all should exist, the programs should also provide the poor with the capacity to bounce
out of poverty or at least resume gainful work;
* view SP not as a cost, but rather, as one type of investment in human capital formation
A key element of this concept involves helping the poor keep access to basic social
services, avoid social exclusion, and resist coping strategies with irreversible negative
effects during adverse shocks;
* focus less on the symptoms and more on the causes of poverty by providing the poor
with the opportunity to adopt higher nsk-return activities and avoid inefficient and
inequitable informal nsk sharing mechanisms; and
* take account of reality. Among the world population of six billion, less than a quarter of
individuals have access to formal SP programs, and less than 5 percent can rely on
their own assets to successfully manage risk. Eliminating the poverty gap through public
transfers is beyond the fiscal capacity of most World Bank client countries
The main idea behind SRM is that in a world of imperfect markets and asymmetric
information (i) the type of shock matters, (ni) there are more risk management than risk
coping strategies, and (iii) there are more risk management arrangements than public
transfers.
* The capacity of individuals, households, or communities to handle risks and the
appropriate nsk management instruments to be applied depend on the characteristics
of risks: their source, correlation, frequency, and intensity. Most important, while
households can often cope with uncorrelated (idiosyncratic) nsks,:such as temporary
sickness, though informal arrangements, they are unable to do so when faced with
highly correlated (co-vanant) shocks such as floods or financial crisis
* Risk can be addressed ex-ante and ex-post. Prevention strategies are introduced before
the nsk occurs and include good macroeconomic policy, disaster management, and
well functioning labor markets Mitigation strategies also exist ex-ante but attempt to
decrease the potential impact of future downside risk that cannot be prevented and
include portfolio diversification and insurance. Coping strategies attempt to relieve the
impact of a risk once it has occurred. Since each strategy has direct and opportunity
costs, no single strategy dominates. However, in the past, too much attention has been
given to coping strategies in companson with prevention and mitigation strategies,
implying the need for a redistnbution of emphasis.
* Each of these strategies can be applied under different arrangements: informal, market-
based or public. informal arrangements such as family, mutual community support or



R Holzmann. Social Risk Management  101
savings in real assets work well for some risks but can be detrimental for development.
Market-based arrangements, such as financial assets and insurance, allow management
of a broad range of risks but require well functioning financial market institutions.
Finally, public arrangements such as social insurance, transfers and public works become
important if the first two arrangements fail but are surrounded by problems of their
own.
The application of this framework goes well beyond Social Protection since many
public interventions such as sound macroeconomic policy, good governance, access to
basic education and health care all help to reduce or mitigate risk, and hence vulnerability.
It also extends Social Protection as traditionally defined since it goes beyond public provision
of risk management instruments and draws attention to informal and market-based
arrangements and their effectiveness and impact on development and growth.
REFERENCES:
R. Holzmann, and S. Jorgensen; 1999. "Social Protection as Social Risk Management. Conceptual
Underpinnings for the Social Protection Sector Strategy Paper." Social Protection
Discussion Paper No. 9904, The World Bank, Washington, DC, http://www.worldbank org/
sp.
R. Holzmann, and S. Jorgensen; 2000. "Social Risk Management. A New Conceptual Framework
for Social Protection, and Beyond." Social Protection Discussion Paper No. 0006, The
World Bank, Washington, DC, http://www.worldbank.org/sp.
Social Protection Sector Strategy Paper, The World Bank Social Protection Sector, Human
Development Network, The World Bank, Washington, DC, (in preparation).



102     Chapter 4. Social Safety Nets
PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAMS FOR MANAGING THE ECONOMIC CRISIS IN
THE REPUBLIC OF KoREA35
INTRODUCTION
Unemployment has been a key social consequence of the massive breakdown of the
Korean economy that began in November 1997 with the onset of the Asian Cnsis The
unemployment rate shot up from a pre-crisis range of 20-2.5 percent to 8.7 percent by
February 1999 While the unemployment figures have been stabilizing somewhat in recent
months, they remain at a level too high for sustaining the country's socio-economic position.
Faced with the huge outpouring of work force from the corporate sector, the Korean
govemment introduced several measures aimed either at minimizing the scope and extent
of layoffs or addressing the needs of those already laid off. This brief note considers some
key aspects of one of the principal crisis measures, the public works program The attributes
and shortcomings are examined with a view to drawing lessons for future efforts in the
areas of social protection and poverty eradication.
PROGRAM CONTEXT AND ATTRIBUTES
In the turbulent first few months following the collapse of the Korean economy, the
Government initiated thousands of public works projects to provide alternative support to
the families of the unemployed and help maintain their work capacities The projects were
soon expanded to include the low-income able-bodied unemployed who were not already
benefiting from other forms of public assistance
The Public Works program therefore consists of two operational modules. The first module
is intended for individuals who were formerly employed and who are either not entitled to
employment benefits or have exhausted them Together with unemployment insurance and
job retraining and placement, this first public works module forms the basic set of social
protection programs available to the unemployed
The second public works module targets poor marginal workers who have been day
laborers or are unsustainably self-employed. The second module, along with the temporary
Livelihood Protection Program, compnses temporary public assistance aimed at helping the
low-income unemployed.
The overall administrative charge of both Public Works program modules rests with the
Ministry of Administration and Self Goveming Bodies while the substantive responsibility
for program implementation goes to the Ministnes of Labor and Health and Welfare Most of
the project activities are camed out at the local government level, although a small number
take place under the supervision of central govemment ministries Also, many NGOs have
been involved at the operational level, formulating project plans and implementing them
under governmental supervision. Payment of the cash benefits to the project participants is
also carried out by local governments or NGOs
The Public Works budgets are drawn entirely from the government's general revenues
In 1998, a total of 1,044 billion won was budgeted for the program, jumping 53 percent in
1999 to 1,600 billion won.36
3 This paper was wntten by Po-hi Pak Ms Pak is the Director of the Korea Institute for Social information and
Research in Seoul
16 Source Ministry of Labor



P Pak Publc Work Programs in the Republic of Korea  103
PROGRAM EFFICACY
What distinguishes public works from other social safety net components in general
and public assistance packages in particular is its objective of sustaining the work viability
of the jobless and 'down and out." The program in the Republic of Korea is not without
shortcomings however. Major issues have been raised, including the questionable value
and efficiency of public works project activities and the general inadequacy of the benefits
to participants.
Cost-effectiveness. In the first year of the program the focus was not on the efficiency
of the projects since the intent was to alleviate the urgent subsistence needs of as many of
the unemployed as possible in the socio-politically explosive early months of the cnsis. As
the program has extended into its second year, the Government as well as the public at
large began tuming attention to the program's cost-effectiveness and the need to align its
activities with the country's overall development concerns, especially in relation to the needs
in the human services and environment fields that had tended to be neglected in the country's
growth-oriented development context. The Govemment is reportedly working on measures
to improve the productivity aspect of the program in the next implementation phase.
Coverage. it has been estimated that the Public Works program has been effective in
helping to stabilize the livelihood of a cumulative total of anywhere between 786,000 and
789,000 able-bodied but destitute unemployed and their families between 1998 and 1999.
However, determining what sort of coverage for the eligible population is implied by these
figures is difficult. Estimates on the number of the unemployed who are eligible for public
works participation varies from 480,500 (National Statistical Office) to 1,184,200 (Korea
Confederation of Trade Unions). These estimates would imply a coverage rate of the eligible
population somewhere between 35 percent and 86 percent. Given that the number of
unemployed who were turned away from the program in 1998 was 2.5 times the number
accepted while assuming that the majority of rejected applicants were in fact eligible, it is
very likely that the coverage rate is closer to 35 percent37
Benefit level. There is a question as to the adequacy of the benefits provided by the
public works program. If the current standard of the monthly Minimum Cost of Living (MCL)
for the average Korean family of 3.5 is used as a benchmark, then the monthly average
eamings available through the program are reasonable-the MCL is 690,000 Won while a
participant who works the maximum of 20 days per month would eam 480,000 Won per
month.38 Yet, the MCL only accounts for bare subsistence needs and does not necessarily
reflect adequate minimum needs for real life in the Republic of Korea. Therefore, program
benefits could well be insufficient.
Further, the public works benefits are more or less the same for all participants, although
their individual needs vary considerably. Compared to the Livelihood Protection program
(Korea's standard public assistance program) whose benefits are adjusted to family size and
include cash provisions for medical care, children's education and small business loans, the
Public Works program is not well-targeted.
3 Korea Institute of Health and social Affairs (KiHASA) and Korea Labor Institute (KU), Report on the Conditions of the
Unemployed and their Welfare Needs April 1999, pp 186-187
38 Kim Mi-Gon of KIHASA estimates that the monthly income of family of 3 5 persons where the primary bread-winner is
engaged in the public works program would be 676,000 won (480,000 won from participation in the program plus
196,000 won of own disposable income) This total is 98 percent of the amount required for minimum subsistence living
1690,000 won)



104      Chapter 4. Social Safety Nets
Yet another issue is the wage level offered to participants of the Public Works program.
Wages are significantly below prevailing rate in the labor market, and are even below the
minimum wage standard Some rationale exists for the generally low wages, since the
public works benefit should not crowd out interest in the Livelihood Protection program,
nor should public works become a preferred employment option over the regular labor
market. However, public works do have a role as a buffer and mediator in managing
fluctuating labor demand conditions and they are not just the employer of last resort.
Public works wages should be at least at the level of the prevailing minimum wage to
provide adequate resources, a structure which would not reduce the desirability of private
sector employment options.
Benefit duration Limited benefit duration is a potentially serious problem. An
unemployed person is allowed a maximum six work months in the public works program
In many cases, six months is not sufficient time to secure work in the regular labor market,
and the exposure to the program alone is not sufficient to obtain stable employment.
Leaving participants to their own devices at the conclusion of a very short participation
penod could be worse for many of them than not having been in the program in the first
place Some consideration should be given to complementary provisions such as: i) a built-
in job placement service to facilitate the participants' transition from the projects to normal
lobs; ii) extendable work period up to at least another six months in the case of the second
module public works participants; and iii) transformation of some public works projects
into small enterprises that can offer sustainable jobs to participants after participation in
the program.
CONCLUSIONS
iWo observations arise from consideration of the Korean public works experience. The
first is that the program is based on the assumption that participants will find independent
sources of income and livelihood, either by retuming to jobs from which they were previously
laid-off or through an alternative employment option. This assumption may be unrealistic,
however, because the currently unemployed do not necessarily have the skills that are in
demand and low-skllled opportunities are likely to diminish with the accelerating tempo of
automation.
The second observation is that the public works program as it exists today in the
Republic of Korea is wasteful. it barely permits participants and their family members to
survive for short penods without doing much to strengthen long-term economic prospects.
Yet the public investment required for such meager support is enormous
The Republic of Korea is therefore faced with the challenge of refonmulating the Public
Works program or of finding an alternative approach One way of responding to this challenge
could be to design and operate the program in such a way as to gradually turn each of its
projects into community-based cooperative enterprises, with the project participants and
other external supporters (other than the Government) as joint stake-holders or investors 39
3 A pilot project is currently underway along this line based on a tri-partite Government-UNDP-NGO collaboration
For more information contact the Korea Institute for Social Information and Research



P Pak Public Work Programs In the Republic of Korea  105
Table 1 0: Korean Social Safety Net Components (May 1 999; 1 0,000 persons)
Social Safety Net     Program      Social Risks  Target Group   Status of Coverage
Structure                        Covered
Primary Social Safety   Medical        Illness      All people      All permanent
Net (Social Insurance)  Insurance                                 residents In Korea
National      Old-Age     Wage workers;     All Industrial
Pension                  self-employed in   workers; Self-
agriculture and    employed in
fisheries (urban  Agriculture &
self-employed       fisheries
pending)
Industrial    Industrial   Wage workers   Workplaces under 5
Accident      Accident                       employees,
Compensation                               excluding temporary
Insurance                                      workers
Employment   Unemployment                  Excluding only daily
Insurance                                   workers (after
October 1998)
Secondary Supplemeniaxy  Public Works  Unemployment     The        439 participants (as
Social   Measures                                  unemployed     at the end of 1999)
Safety
Net
Job Training                               320 participants (as
at the end of 1999)
Loan Projects                                70 beneficiaries
(as at the end of
1999)
Livelihood   Public Works     Poverty     Low income    1390 (on-going 770;
Protection                                   group        temporary. 620)
(Including
temporary
livelihood)
Home                                    530 (on-going: 390
Protection                                 temporary. 140)



106      Chapter 4 Social Safety Nets
WHICH POOR TO HELP?
COORDINATED POVERTY ALLEVIATION IN THE PHILIPPINES40
WHICH POOR TO HELP
An appealing campaign platform for many world leaders, as well as many international
aid organizations, has been the eradication of poverty Yet the sheer numbers and diversity
of poor people make this goal extremely difficult to achieve Reality is no more forgiving in
the Philippines. Poverty figures for December 1 997 indicate that 32.1 percent of total
households lived below the poverty line, translating into four million poor families or roughly
24 million poor Filipinos. How do we address poverty given limited public resources? More
specifically, how do we decide which poor to help?
The approach taken in the Philippines since May 1998 under President Estrada has
been to help the poorest of the poor first, recognizing that resources should be concentrated
on those individuals who are trying to help themselves This paper briefly reviews an approach
to this question reflected in the poverty alleviation program of the National Anti-Poverty
Commission (NAPC)
TARGETING THE POOREST FAMILES
The target set by President Estrada for the poverty eradication program is to bring
down the poverty index to only 20 percent by the end of his term41 . This means a reduction
of 2 percent per year for six years This is at par with the regional performance for Southeast
Asia. Yet resources are limited, so it is essential to know which poor to help before formulating
public programs.
The National Economic Development Authonty (NEDA) statistics show that in December
1997, about 44 percent of the families living below the poverty line are found in the rural
areas. These are the people who lack income as well as basic social and economic services-
health, education, housing, electricity, communication, and transportation. Although NEDA
statistics report dwindling numbers of poor in the urban areas, they still must be part of the
targeted poor of the poverty eradication program.
In order to reach the 2 percent reduction target every year, the program is designed to
benefit the entire barangay village where the poorest families live. The program will identify
the poor in stages, beginning with the 100 poorest families in each of the 78 provinces and
83 cities. Subsequent groups of the 100 poorest families in each of the 1,525 municipalities
and eventually in the 40,000 barangays will be identified by NAPC42.
In view of the administration's budgetary constraints, the package of minimum assistance
has been made available only to these lists of the poorest families nationwide. However,
poor families that live in the remotest areas and in poorer municipalities (especially in the
fifth and sixth class municipalities), whether or not they are in the list of 100 poorest families,
will get services from other govemment programs.
40 This paper was written by Donna Z Gasgonia Ms Gasgonia is the Presidential Assistant for Poverty Eradication,
and the Chairperson of the Presidential Commission for the Urban Poor and Vice-Chairperson of the National Anti-
Poverty Commission of the Philippines
This figure is lower than the target set by the Medium-term Philippine Development Plan, which is 25-28 percent
The Estrada Cabinet, led by NEDA, is now studying what changes are needed so that the Plan can meet the lower
target of 20 percent
42 NAPC was established by law, Repubiic Act No 8425, effectve 30 June 1998



D Gasgonfa: Which Poor to Help?  107
WHO ARE THE POOREST?
The Minimum Basic Needs (MBN) approach is used to determine the poorest families
based on a set of 32 socioeconomic indicators. The indicators represent three major areas
of family well being-survival, security, and services. Survival indicators relate to water and
food intake and basic health, among others. Security includes food security that assures
that nutritional requirements for a healthy diet are met and housing security. Enabling
services monitored by the MBN include health and education Both the Department of Health
and the Department of Education, Culture and Sports have revised their programs to respond
better to the needs of the poorer segments of society. NAPC is focusing on their programs
intended for the young children of poor families.
The United Nation's Human Development Index (HDI) provides a way to compare
conditions in the Philippines with other countries. In 1998 the Philippines ranked below
many countries in the region, including Brunei Darussalam; Hong Kong, China; Japan, Republic
of Korea; Malaysia; Singapore; and Thailand The relatively low ranking on the HDI suggest
that more attention should be given to improving life expectancy at birth, adult literacy,
and enrollment rates, and real per capita income
One of the greatest problems is that the Philippines has the highest annual population
growth in the region at 2 3 percent With its insufficient budget for education, the govemment
will forever trail behind the ideal ratio of school children per classroom. On the other end,
there are many adults who also need assistance to become literate. NAPC has adopted a
more culturally sensitive perspective in addressing this problem by enhancing the indigenous
culture as against imposing literacy in the national language and alphabet.
Livelihood is also severely lacking for the poor. NAPC devised a program to develop
microenterprises through the establishment of a trust fund for the capability building of
local government units, NGOs and peoples organizations43.
POVERTY ERADICATION PROGRAM
The poverty program seeks both to alleviate absolute poverty and address relative
poverty. Here, "absolute poverty" refers to the number of households below the minimum
food threshold level while relative poverty" refers to the resource gap between the rich and
the poor.
The policy framework of the poverty eradication program stresses five major
components: food security, modernization of agriculture and fisheries for sustainable
development; low-cost mass housing, and protection of the poor against crime and violence
Active participation of local government units in program implementation is sought
Food security means that no Filipino should go hungry. This short-term objective is to
make sure that the poor families affected by lack of available food receive food through the
National Food Authority (NFA) rolling stores. The medium-term goal is for specific regions to
produce enough rice and corn, in order to meet their local demand. The long-term goal is to
be self-sufficient. Modern technology that supports the agriculture and fisheries industries
is being made available to farmers and fisherfolk. Sustainable integrated area development
has been declared as the official framework for development of the agriculture and fisheries
industries.
Low-cost mass housing is an important step towards poverty eradication The National
Shelter Program intends to construct 200,000 housing units by the year 2004. The strategy
3 Sec 11 RA. 8425



108     Chapter 4 Social Safety Nets
adopted is to build communities, not just houses. Every cluster of 500 families will also have
a social area or clubhouse with sports facilities and a livelihood/training center. This strategy
is designed to combat drug abuse and violence among poor communities. One approach is
to use police officers in drug abuse resistance education in elementary schools.
CONVERGENCE OF PROGRAM
The Philippines is an agricultural country and 44 percent of the rural population lives
below the poverty line Development, therefore, needed to focus on the rural poor In response,
three departments-the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR), the Department of Agriculture
(DA), and DENR have formulated a convergence of their respective programs The target
poor are the agrarian reform communities, the farmers, the fishesfolk, and the upland and
coastal communities.
The Department. of Health, Department of Education, Culture and Sports, and the
Presidential Commission of the Urban Poor were directed to plan for a convergence of health,
education and housing services for the urban poor.
A small, P2.5 billion ($50 million) fund called the Lingap para so Mahihirap (poverty
alleviation fund) was appropriated for the year 1999 to provide assistance in terms of (i)
medical and health services, (ii) food, (iii) housing, (iv) youth and child protection, and (v)
grants to cooperatives. The Lingap fund is intended to prop up the poorest families so that
they can begin to help themselves in economic activities, preferably using microenterprise
development. The bigger and more substantial funds of the national govemment agencies
will be the eventual sources of enabling services that will create the economic stimuli for
the poorest communities to nse out of their poverty
FUNDAMENTAL SERVICES
The poor communities lack basic services such as electricity, water, communications,
and transportation. Realizing that without these services any help to these communities
would be wasted, resource mapping is being done to assess their needs for such services.
About one fourth of the barangays have no electricity. Many of them are in the uplands,
isolated coasts, and small islands. Connection to on-gnd electricity is impractical In response,
The Philippine Energy Plan emphasizes the need for installing isolated power plants utilizing
as much renewable energy as possible
Updated information and communication are essential to level the playing field for the
poor communities so that they can exercise judgment without the obstacle of not knowing
what is happening everywhere. This lack of information is what moneylenders, usurers, and
middlemen capitalize on. The poor can make decisions to ensure better production With
power and communication established, product and service delivery requires particularly
upgrading of transportation facilities.
In consonance with the major components of the poverty eradication program, the
participation of local govemment units is important to ensure that the benefits reach the
poorest families. The national government then comes in with sustained training and
technology transfer through the Community Empowerment Program at the barangay level
The Department of the Interior and Local Government and the Department of Labor and
Employment through its attached agency, the Technical Education and Skills Development
Authonty (TESDA) lead this barangay-based program. Poor workers also lack access to the
latest technology, education, and skills needed to be competitive in the marketplace. TESDA
will provide them with a comprehensive, integrated but simple training program in
accordance with local abilities and market needs.



D. Gasgonla Which Poor to Help?  109
INCREASE PURCHASING POWER OF THE POOR
Many economic managers expect miracles to happen through massive national projects,
yet these projects treat the poor as mere recipients, not market players. The flaw of this
"top-down" approach has already been exposed. Besides, this "top-down" approach shifts
the blame to the poor when after a single seminar or training, the poor do not meet the
expectation to become successful entrepreneurs or skilled workers with secure jobs.
The poor are the best channels for the much-needed stimulus to energize economic
activity. As soon as the poor receive money, it moves quickly in local economies stimulating
other economic activities. Reversing reliance on the "trickle-down effect," funds are being
moved to the poor communities directly to increase their purchasing power. This assures
that the poorest of the poor are not left out in the poverty eradication program. Aside from
service and fund infusion, the poor will be assisted in evaluating local socioeconomic data.
This would generate greater saving among them. Savings by the poorest families can then
boost the economy, first at community level, and eventually at the national level.
PRO-POOR MARKET DRIVEN PROGRAM
The poverty eradication program of the Philippines is pro-poor and market-driven. It
enables the poorest families to help themselves. It provides access to market information
and the market itself. It provides vital government services to meet the minimum basic
needs of the poor. Then it encourages microenterprises through the provision of
microfinancing. A pro-poor, market-driven program removes hidden subsidies and market
distortions. By focusing on long-term development, artificial and unsustainable short-term
gains are avoided. This results in a steady, stable, and paced development that is sensible
and fair to the poor.






Social Sector Reforms
SOCIAL SECTOR REFORMS IN ASIA AFTER THE CRISIS:
OPERATIONAL LESSONS44
FIVE LESSONS FROM THE EAST ASIA CRISIS
Five key lessons for future social policy stand out from the experience of the 1997-1999
social crisis in East Asia. These lessons represent a distillation of ongoing thinking in the
World Bank and other institutions, and reflect conscious efforts to mine 'good practices"
and experience gained, especially those which suggest better policy approaches for managing
economic and social crises.
We need to concentrate attention and action more sharply and more effectively on the
key factors that are critical to household welfare in times of cnsis Changes in labor demand
have the most direct and crucial short-run impact for households, as crisis impact translates
into reduced labor demand. In East Asia, unemployment increased significantly but most of
the adjustment appears to have taken place through falling wages and the movement of
workers into low-paying/low-productivity informal sector jobs Retums on physical assets
and capital gains or losses are a second area of focus inflation has harsh consequences for
the poorest segments of society, because they hold a greater proportion of their wealth in
cash than the non-poor. A third focal point is public transfers across-the-board budget
belt-tightening tends to harm those who rely on public services, thus especially the poor.
Relative price changes are another key factor: price increases for food hurt those
households in the region that are net consumers of food: in East Asia, especially the urban
poor and poor farmers whose food stocks and production dropped sharply because of the
El Nnlo drought. There are also highly important community effects: social capital is damaged
during crises and some households' rational short-term responses have adverse, sometimes
irreversible long-term effects.
Safety nets work best when they are planned and set up before a cnsis strikes. Existing
safety net mechanisms in the region are still patchy, and serve a small minority of people.
Coverage by safety nets is limited, leakage is sometimes high, and assistance available far
short of demand during the crisis. Poor communities are too often far removed, even unaware
of the programs designed to help them. It is particularly difficult to set up effective safety
nets, let alone social insurance mechanisms, during a crisis. Financial resources are by
definition not available, there are implementation lags and difficult issues arise on the
management and political fronts.
Effective safety nets aimed at poor families and communities are a long-term
development investment that also address one of the critical issues for poverty: the particular
vulnerability of poor households to many kinds of risk. When no crisis is in sight, good safety
nets provide the insurance necessary for poor households to make risky choices that increase
This overview on the subject discussions during the Manila Social Forum was written by Katherine Marshall Ms
Marshall Is the Director for Social Policy and Govemance of the World Banks East Asia and Pacific Region She was the
coorganizer of the Manila Social Forum, together with Armin Bauer from ADB



1 1 2   Chapter 5: Social Sector Reforms
their productivity and spur growth. Effective safety nets can help ensure that an economic
shock or other crisis does not halt development, that essential household investments in
health and education are maintained Welfare programs are likely to be a key element of
effective safety nets to mitigate the risk of loss of income dunng crisis. There are several
good examples in the region and also in Latin America (Argentina, in particular). In economies
where the formal sector is dominant, unemployment insurance, or savings-plan
unemployment schemes, may be appropriate Targeted transfers of cash or food to specific
sub-groups of the poor, such as pregnant women or the elderly, or those who should not
work, such as school-age children, can play an important role.
Mechanisms to provwde information to monitor the impact of the cnsis and evaluate
response are a necessity, not a desirable luxury. Effective action demands a crisis response
system built on timely and diverse types of information Adequate and timely information
on the impact of the cnsis on various groups and areas helps in design of appropnate policy
responses and provides feedback on the impact of policies, which allows for corrections if
the desired impact does not materialize. There are good and recent examples of effective
crisis response information systems, including the Indonesia Social Monitoring and
Emergency Response unit (SMERU). Information can also play a crucial role in national and
local politics around design and implementation. For instance, at a local level, providing
public infonmation on intended public action can help reduce leakage and corruption.
Enhanced social dialogue and civil society participation are key to effective social cnsis
management Social conflicts are harmful because they divert resources from economically
productive activities and they discourage such activities by the uncertainty they generate
Social dialogue between social partners (employees, employers, govemment, civil society)
is an effective instrument to limit conflicts and to generate cooperative solutions to major
problems. Thus it is advisable to promote dialogue mechanisms, including tripartite dialogue.
Civil society participation and empowerment of groups and actors left aside are also an
effective means to raise cohesion and to improve the decision-making process
The govemance agenda is highlighted by crisis and takes on heightened importance. The
last two years have demonstrated the importance of governance issues and their strong
links to social policy This was articulated before the crisis, but the cnsis has made the
processes of government in East Asia an issue of wide discussion. The participation of civil
society in crisis response has underscored the need for greater community involvement in
decision making The challenge confronts us to develop better and more diverse mechanisms
for intended beneficiaries to participate in delivery of services and in the process of
development activities
Weak state capacity was evident in poor regulatory systems and financial mechanisms.
It is also sometimes reflected in the confusion of roles and lack of coordination between
delivery agencies. Many of the key roles of govemment did not change with the crisis, but
demands of providing education and health services in a crisis situation were exacerbated
by shrinking budgets and increasing uncertainty Programs of public sector reform and
strengthening will remain crucial if countries are to be more responsive to shocks in the
future. More broadly, government accountability depends upon effective institutions, clear
rules, and respect for individual rights. We need to look more closely at how much
accountability is in fact affected by reforms such as the decentralization and privatization
of functions. No matter what the system of government, the availability of information aids
accountability, particularly from an active press and community groups.
Many of these threads come together in the imperative of tackling corruption. Corruption
thrives in the absence of transparency and accountability. The social and developmental



K Marshall: Social Sector Reforrns In Asia After the Crisis: Operational Lessons  113
losses due to corruption are something that countries cannot afford and donors can neither
accept nor justify. Anti-corruption efforts are now a central focus of regional governments
and donors, and multilateral agencies have taken major steps in this area
WITH HINDSIGHT: LESSONS, QUESTIONS AND ISSUES
An effective, if sobering, tool for leaming is to hark back to one's words and perceptions
of the past. Taking the Bangkok Social Issues Meeting (January 1999) as a reference point,
there are some interesting areas of harmony, and some important areas of dissonance or
change
In Bangkok, the focus of social policy leaders was on the social crisis, its impact, and
appropriate responses The widespread fear was of severe and lasting social costs, calling
for ambitious new social programs and necessitating large-scale international assistance.
The social agenda today is quite different, much less crisis-driven, more hopeful and optimistic.
But the crisis focus has, we believe, changed the agenda in fundamental ways. There can
and should be no going back. As hope returns and we look forward, the need to be prepared
for hard times and unexpected shocks, to build these factors into poverty strategies, and to
renew and deepen approaches to poverty issues have emerged as new imperatives.
The information issues-lack of clear, operational, policy-linked information systems-
already were and remain a critical concern In January 1999, from all quarters, and for all
actors, policy-makers and researchers alike, the gaps in knowledge stared forth. But the
Bangkok meeting also noted the plethora of remarkable information gathering efforts that
were launched, and began to note their results.
The basic messages in Manila were threefold. First, diversity. the crisis impact was
much more complex, much more varied, by place, time, social group, than the initial reports
and assumptions suggested. Second, the resilience of societies in the face of crisis offers a
never-ending series of inspirational stories and underscores that new social policies need
to take careful note of what are termed traditional coping mechanisms: tailored, culturally
sensitive programs that build on the views and wishes of beneficiaries are essential. Third,
the suffering of many groups has been enormous. this brings home vividly the human face
of globalization, the costs of economic swings, and the need to plan for and prepare for
future crises, so that suffering can be reduced and mechanisms are in place to help those in
need.
CONCLUSION: THE EMERGING SOCIAL AGENDA
Social safety nets, social policy, and poverty strategies are related but not the same.
The crisis brought home both links and potential contradictions. For a start, clear definitions
would be useful, so that we were clear, for example, what is meant by safety nets. We
suggest that we appreciate and agree that the social agenda encompasses and grows from
poverty reduction strategies, but extends well beyond
The need to link social and economic policy stands out and is an imperative. we still
can learn much from how this actually worked during the crisis, and where issues of
communication and misinformation played a role.
There are important lessons to learn from successful crisis programs. Standouts are the
programs launched to keep children in school, which in several countnes worked remarkably
well It was not only the financial investment in education that counted. It was also spreading
the message to parents and communities and coming up with practical solutions to specific
problems that arose When the crisis started, a sharp drop in educational attainments was
feared. The efforts of governments, civil society, and their partners to keep children in schools,
were remarkable



1 14    Chapter 5 Social Sector Reforms
The partnerships that are the focus of discussions in Manila offer another vein of lessons
to mine Though there are many tales of success, there are also sagas of duplication and
missed opportunities We emerge determined to build on the best experience, to use
instruments that promise better communication and synergy, and to ensure a broad
understanding of the development partnership, which incorporates the array of official
agencies and civil society and private sector institutions
However, there is a risk that once we have passed the climax of the crisis, we return to
business as usual. As we move ahead, it is worth recalling the maxim they that forget
history are condemned to repeat it We need to be sure that we do mine the experience of
the crisis years as we plan for the future



B Dlokno Local Govemments' Expenditures for Social Services Delivery  11 5
LocAL GOVERNMENTS' EXPENDITURES FOR
SOCIAL SERVICES DELIVERY*
INTRODUCllON
In the light of the economic crisis, an important question is whether public spending
for social services has deteriorated in response to the need to stabilize the economy of the
crisis country. A related issue is how local governments have responded to the need to
provide safety nets for the disadvantaged during the crisis. An important conclusion that
can be derived from a review of recent fiscal statistics is that government expenditure for
social services for the Philippines-both at the local and national level-have not suffered
despite the deterioration in fiscal resources as a result of a weaker economy.
SOCIAL EXPENDITURES AT THE LOCAL LEVELS
With the implementation of the Local Government Code in 1992, the burden of providing
basic social services became a shared responsibility between the national and the local
governments. With the devolution of some responsibilities including social welfare and health
services, the budgetary assistance to local governments-Intemal Revenue Allotment-has
increased quite dramatic. As percent of the total budget, the IRA increased from 6.7 percent
in 1992 to 20 percent in the year 2000. In absolute terms, the IRA raised from P9.8 billion in
1991 to P121.8 billion in 2000. On the average, IRA has grown by 32 percent between 1991
and 1999
At the local government level, expenditures on social services are made in five major
areas: (i) education, culture and sport/human resources development; (ii) health, nutrition,
and family planning; (iii) labor and employment; (iv) housing and community development;
and (v) social secunty, social services and welfare. Local government spending on these
social services expenditures (SSE) grew dramatically following the devolution law. Between
1991 and 1996, for example, SSE increased more than 41 percent.
Despite, or perhaps because of the Asian crisis, social services expenditure continue to
rise, though at a slower rate than in the immediate past From 1997 to 1998, SSE grew by
1 2.5 percent compared with an increase of only 7.9 percent for total local government
budgets. Compared to other social services sectors, expenditure on social services grew the
fastest An earlier study also showed that higher per capita IRA tends to be associated with
higher per capita social sector expenditures. A look at more recent local fiscal data supports
this hypothesis. During the period 1991 to 1997, there appears to be a close association
between the growth of IRA and the growth of SSE. In fact, in 1998 the growth of SSE has
exceeded that of IRA.
CONSOLIDATED SSE: 1991, 1996-1998
Was there an overall growth in social services expenditures after devolution and during
the crisis years? The answer is yes. The national government spending for social services
grew from P158.9 billion in 1997 to P175.2 billion in 1998, maintaining its ratio to gross
national product (GNP) at 6.3 percent This is not to argue that the fiscal response to the
growing social demands as a result of the crisis may have been adequate. Arguably, it might
have been inadequate. Yet, despite the strong pressure on the Govemment to cut spending
because of the deteriorating revenues owing to the weaker economy, it was able to maintain
4 This paper was written by Beniamin E Dlokno Mr. Diokno is the secretary of the Department of Budget and
Management (DBM) of the Philippines



11 6    Chapter5 Social Sector Reforms
social sector spending as a percent of GNP This was accomplished largely because of the
decision of the Estrada administration, immediately after it assumed office in July 1998, to
reverse the contractionary fiscal policy of the previous administration and restore the
budgetary reserves imposed on basic social services. This is consistent with the commitment
of the administration to invest in human capital as part of its pro-poor program. The shift in
fiscal policy not only minimized the economic slowdown but it also mitigated the social
pain of the economic crisis.
Was the growth of SSE at local levels offset by a decline in budget allocation for social
services by the national government? There was clearly no substitution effect Higher spending
for social services at the local level did not result in lower spending for the same by the
national government. In fact, national government spending for social services continues to
grow robustly. While this is driven largely by growth in education at all levels, which has
remained primarily the responsibility of the national government, yet the national budgets
for health and social welfare continues to increase
IMPLICATIONS FOR POLICY
On a consolidated basis, social expenditures have grown impressively over time and
even during the crisis years (1997 and 1998) There are two plausible reasons for this desirable
outcome. First, higher local government spending may be attributed to the Local Govemment
Code of 1992 Second, the timely reversal in fiscal policy and the Estrada administration's
strong commitment to invest in human capital was responsible for the large and rising
budgetary allocation for social services.
The strong growth of social expenditures at local level may be attnbuted to the devolution
of more social services responsibilities, and the corresponding transfer of more unconditional
budgetary grant to local governments in 1992. The classic arguments for devolution applies:
that local governments are quicker and more able to respond to changing conditions, and
that local authonties are more likely to reflect the preferences of citizens in their decision-
making functions than the central government
CONCLUSIONS
Despite the Asian economic crisis, the Philippine national and local government
expenditures for social services did not suffer, measured both in terms of their share of the
budget and as percent of GNP. There are at least two plausible reasons for this desirable
outcome First, with the implementation of the Local Government Code in 1992, which
devolved social welfare services and primary health care to local governments, the provision
of basic social services to its citizens has become a shared responsibility between the national
government and local government units The devolution of new responsibilities was
accompanied by a sharp increase in national government fiscal grant to local governments
Second, in mid-1998 and at the height of the Asian crisis, the newly installed Estrada
administration decided to shift from contractionary to expansionary fiscal policy, thereby
allowing the lifting of the 25 percent budgetary reserves on basic social services.



H Syarlef Block Grants to Reforn Education and Health Sectors In Indonesia  11 7
BLOCK GRANTS TO REFORM THE
EDUCATION AND HEALTH SECTORS IN INDONESIA46
INTRODUCTION
At the beginning of the 1990s, very few people could have predicted the economic
meltdown that has occurred in Indonesia over the last two years. Indonesia was often cited
as a positive example of good economic and social development. Indonesia's universal
education, the Pos Yandu, and its family planning program were often cited as good examples
of cost effective social programs. Within Indonesia, there was a sense of optimism based on
the continuous growth of the economy, and on an increasing perception of well-being for
everybody, the rayat of Indonesia. Telephones, electricity, primary schools were all things
that the even the poor were used to as a result of continuous socioeconomic development
over the space of several decades.
Tlraditionally Indonesia has been a centrally controlled government. Overall policy was
developed in five-year plans. Goals were set, and the development budget was programmed
by the line ministers to meet those objectives. The provincial offices waited for instructions
from the national offices, and they informed the district office of the Government Policy. This
approach appeared to be working, particularly in the years preceding the meltdown in
1998. However, among some there was a growing sense that the structural elements of the
Indonesian economy would not lead to long-term sustainable growth. There was also a
growing dissatisfaction about the autocratic nature of the executive branch of government.
Nevertheless suggestions for reform were unheeded. Nothing was broken, so why should it
be fixed?
ESTABLISHING A SOCIAL SAFETY NET IN RESPONSE TO THE CRISIS
The economic crisis forced the country to rethink Its policy options in the social sector.
The funds to increase the capacity of the educational system, and the health needs of the
rising number of poor people that were victims of the economic crisis were no longer available.
Concerns were raised that a large number of children would have to leave school, and that
utilization of basic health services by the poor would be reduced. There was need for a
program that would immediately assist the district level governments with these problems.
The Social Safety Net program was created in response. There was a need to get the money
out to the field operational level as quickly as possible. A series of block grants in health and
education was set up that went out to the sub-district level for health, and scholarships to
keep poor children in school. The money for health was sent to various midwives, and
health center physicians with oversight/action committees set up among community
members at the sub-district level. These funds were earmarked to support nutritional services,
family planning, and basic health services among the poorest members of the community.
Money for poor children's scholarships was sent directly to the children identified by schools
as at risk from dropping out because of their family's new poverty The money sent to each
subdistrict was based on estimates of the number of poor within each sub-district. The
funds were sent directly through the post office. As funds were disbursed and utilized,
additional finance replenished the funds available for assistance.
This block grant system was unique and unlike any social program previously
implemented in Indonesia. It required some systematic changes in the way in which social
e This paperwas wntten byHidayatSyanef.Mr Syarief is the Deputy Chairman of the National Development Planning
Agency (Bappenas) of the Republic of indonesia



118     Chapter 5: Social Sector Reforms
programs are being implemented. The communities have responded positively to the
program, and in most cases have been able to utilize the funds correctly and appropriately.
The Indonesian economy now stands poised on the brink of a new economic expansion
The block grant system will continue in some form even after the crisis is over. In particular
the country would like to apply some of the lessons leamed in meeting the health and
educational needs of the population to further improve decentralization efforts within the
social sector. Presently many efforts for immediate and long-term reforms to the governments'
management of social programs are being made. Some of these changes are general to all
social programs, and some are specific to both health and education While we are still
leaming about the problems and constraints of the social safety net, several things are fairly
obvious at this stage
SOCIAL SAFETY NETS: WHAT HAVE WE LEARNED?
The first lesson is that the capital absorption of the sub-districts was relatively high.
The money that was transferred to the sub-distncts through the post office was utilized,
even though the program, and mechanism for funds transfer was very different to anything
that the district had seen in the past. The sub-distnct has the capacity to utilize these block
grants. The ability of the sub-districts to utilize the funds correctly is, however, less obvious,
and they need to be further empowered to take on their new role in the future.
The educational sector appears to have a higher capacity to utilize these block grants
than the health sector. The educational sector has several decades of experience in
decentralization and district officers understand the importance of local involvement The
health sector in Indonesia is not decentralized to the same extent as the education sector,
except in several provinces where development efforts were oriented toward decentralization
This has made the capital absorption in the health sector less than the capital absorption in
the educational sector (60 percent as compared to more than 90 percent). It is important,
therefore, to continue focusing on decentralization in the health sector to encourage and
empower local communities to take responsibility for the management and evaluation of
their health programs.
One major constraint to successful decentralization is the lack of trained highly motivated
staff at the district level. The district health offices need staff that can assess the health
problems of their district, develop new innovative approaches toward improving the health
status, and evaluate the new programs that they develop. This will require new skills that do
not exist in many district health offices. Hence, staff development at the district level is one
of the major priorities for continued decentralization in the health sector.
To better supervise social sector activities, also, the quality of staff at the district level
need to be improved through formal training programs and redeployment of central staff to
the peripheral areas. This could be done permanently, or could be done on a part-time
basis. District health offices need help in all areas of program development, management,
and budgeting. Staff from the central office have skills that are desperately needed in the
district offices. Improvement of the managenal capacity of the district and sub-district health
offices will require innovated approaches as the additional staff development for the district
level is undertaken Exchange programs whereby central staff would spend part of the year
in staff development at the district level could be a short-term solution to the transfer of
skills and responsibility to the district level.



H Syarfef Block Grants to Reform Education and Health Sectors In Indonesia  119
CONCLUSIONS
For 30 years, Indonesia made slow but steady progress in improving the education and
health sectors. The economic crisis forced the country to move away from its previous
paradigm of top-down to a more decentralized model of community empowerment. While
it is hoped that the future will bring better economic times and continued improvement in
education and health, the country has leamed many valuable lessons from the crisis that
will make it better prepared to maintain quality in social services delivery and react flexibly,
even in uncertain economic times. We do not need to wait until the next crisis to improve,
evaluate, and implement new innovative approaches to improving the performance of the
social sector.



1 20    Chapter 5 Social Sector Reforms
CAMBODIA'S HEALTH STUATION:
POLICY REFORMS AND INVESTMENT IMPLICATIONS47
INTRODUCTION
Compared with other Asian countries, the past 20 years of civl war have left Cambodia
with poor public services and infrastructure. Although most major frameworks and
mechanisms for health development are already in place with significant progress made
over the past decade, the health status of Cambodian people remains among the lowest in
Asia.
The objective of this paper is to pinpoint critical concerns and challenges facing
Cambodia's health sector it also provides policy directions for meeting the long-term vision
for health development in Cambodia, including the necessary financial means, commitment
pledged, and resource gap.
PROGRESS IN HEALTH REFORMS
Enhancing and strengthening the economy's market orientation is essential for
democracy and good govemance in Cambodia. The Government's proactive, dynamic, and
catalytic role in achieving socioeconomic growth continues to be "pro-democracy, pro-
growth, pro-private sector, pro-poor, and pro-environment" in nature. As part of this mandate,
the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) has undertaken in the last years a series of health
reforms in four main areas fiscal reform, organizational reform, human resource development,
and coordination of extemal aid. Each of these key reforms is discussed briefly below.
Fiscal Reform for the Health Sector
The RGC is implementing fiscal reform programs aimed at enhancing revenue and
improving public expenditure management The reforms have yielded some positive results
on the revenue side, while public expenditure management has been less encouraging,
with a persistent gap between the official budget and actual expenditure. The Ministry of
Economy and Finance acknowledges factors contnbuting to underspending in the health
sector such as diversion of funds to other sectors and at the provincial levels, budget cuts in
the expenditure program, slow release of funds under the payment system, and the complex
budgeting procedures. However, the Ministry is committed to enhance allocative and
technical efficiency of the budget expenditure process for priority sectors by increasing the
health budget by 51 percent in 2000. It has also committed to budgetary reform by taking
specific actions, including not cutting the monthly expenditure program in the health sector,
developing financial participation schemes (user-fees) for services, improving the efficiency
of donor funding through a Sector Wide Approach in health development, and strengthening
the Public Investment Management System. Technical inputs are in place and national
capacity is being built to develop policies, formulate operational strategies and plans, and
to install management mechanisms and monitoring systems Govemment and NGOs shall
translate these policies into action and implement the health reforms.
Since 1996, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has been undergoing substantial organizational
and financial reforms to strengthen the health system. A formula was introduced to improve
equity considerations in the health budget allocation process Funds are now being allocated
to each health facility according to the degree of service activities and the population served.
4 This paper was wntten by Char Meng Chuor Mr Chuor is the Director for Health Planning and Information of the
Miristry of Health in Cambodia



C Chuor CambodlaS Health Situation  121
In addition, in 1999, under the Accelerated District Development (ADD) system, a mechanism
for the regular release of funds has been expanded to include 25 districts. This system
provides more efficient and flexible funding for hospitals and health centers by appropriating
a separate envelope of funds for each district. Furthenmore, since 1996, the 'Health Financing
Charter" jointly issued by the MOH and the Ministry of Economy and Finance is guiding
different models of health financing schemes, particularly through user fees. To date, user
charges have been implemented in 82 health centers and hospitals, and innovative
mechanisms for contracting in and contracting out health services are being tested in several
districts with extemal funding.
Organizational Reform: The Health Coverage Plan
Recently, the health infrastructure has been reorganized to a system based on population
density and accessibility of services. The basic unit of health care is the decentralized
"Operational District". In each operational district there is one District Health Office (DHO),
one Referral Hospital (RH), and 10-1 5 health centers. These operational districts are organized
so as to become the most peripheral management units for the provision of comprehensive
services to the population. Social Fund activities make an important contribution to the
health infrastructure in the new post-conflict economy. Based on the 1996 health coverage
plan, there are 67 referral hospitals, 935 health centers, and eight national hospitals. The
planned allocations cover the whole population, and are meant to provide an accessible,
comprehensive primary health care package.
Human Resource Development for Health Workers
The restructuring of the health care system requires health workers to possess new sidlls to
manage the change. Priority is being given to improving the health curriculum, training
techniques, and a reorientation towards primary health care. For continuing training,
emphasis is put on two training packages called the Minimum Package of Activities (MPA) at
health center level and the Complementary Package of Activities (CPA) at the referral hospital
level. These training packages cover both technical and managerial skills. In addition, basic
and postgraduate training are supported, encompassing clinical and para-clinical specialties,
public health, epidemiology, and management. Furthermore, a revised staff reward and
sanction system is operating guided by the Human Resource Policies of the Ministry of
Health.
The financial administration capacity of health managers is being strengthened through
training on the accounting system and budget expenditure report system. The priority now
is to return government budget management to the provincial and district levels in order to
ensure existing monthly expenditures and to explore ways to make the current expenditure
system more efficient
Extemal Aid Coordination
Since 1991, the Coordinating Committee for External Aid in the Health Sector (COCOM)
has been in existence, chaired by a Secretary of State. The COCOM's primary function is the
rehabilitation and future policy development and planning of Cambodia's health services,
including determining national health sector needs for financial and staff resources. Its
secondary function is the coordination of current and future activities of all international
and NGOs and others working in the health sector. Permanent memberships include MOH
key senior staff, bilateral and multilateral organizations, and MEDICAM (the coordinating
agency for NGOs working in the medical field). COCOM has established 13 technical
subcommittees to address specific health issues, and has extended its operations into all
provinces, through the Provincial Coordinating Committees for Health.



122     Chapter 5. Social Sector Reforms
In addition to the coordinating committees, the MOH is considering new partnership
arrangements between extemal donors and the government under a sector-wide approach
to planning and financing health services. There would be a single combined budget for the
sector that is executed through appropriate systems for common resource management.
The sector-wide approach is at the early stage of development, and by January 2001, the
partners in the health sector will come together to produce annual Sector Partnership
Agreements containing planned budgets and activities for 2002 and future years
In the meantime, reforms combining organizational, financial, human resource and
external aid coordination are also being explored. The MOH is currently designing a proposal
for "Boosting the New Operational District and Coverage Plan' The proposal outlines strategies
to address obstacles to the effective implementation of the health coverage plan, discusses
alternative financing systems and further development of a best practice package of
interventions.
NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY AND THE INVESTMENT PROGRAM 2000-2002
The proposed public investment program 2000-2002 has been designed to help attain
the Government's health sector objectives through financial and technical support Strategic
choices have been made to maximize the sustainability and impact of the investments.
Given the reform of the health sector, the program will support both existing public health
programs and the rehabilitation of basic health services. The program will also incorporate
emerging priorities and the development of medical technology through strengthening
hospital services. In addition to the investment components, specific performance goals
and objectives have been identified and the programs will be monitored and evaluated
Most basic indicators have been defined and will be measured at the program level
There will be four areas for investment focus. First, health sector management, planning,
and legislation will be strengthened through the sector-wide approach for coordination of
AIDS efforts, developing human resource capabilities, and reforming pharmaceutical
management Second, existing health programs will be funded and operated through the
decentralized Health Coverage Plan focusing on health centers. These programs include
control of tuberculosis, malaria, dengue and hemorragic fever, schistosomiasis, leprosy, AIDS/
sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), as well as immunization programs, and women and
child health programs Third, responses to emerging priorities will be increased, including
strengthening medical specialty training, funding cancer prevention and blindness prevention
programs, and strengthening the National Laboratory that tests food and drug safety. Finally,
funding will be provided to rehabilitate and upgrade the technological capacity at national
and provincial hospitals including an expansion of blood transfusion services at referral
hospitals across the country.
The total costs of the Public Investment Program for the health sector is estimated at
$523 million equivalent. Investment costs are estimated at about 48.1 percent of total costs.
This estimation is based on the assumption that the MOH budget will double from 1 percent
of GDP in 1999 to 2 percent in 2002. The MOH 2000 budget will be $49.17 million, including
operating costs ($33.01 million), investment cost ($14.73 million) and counterpart fund ($1 43
million). However, $145 million has yet to be committed by donors/lending agencies to
close the resource gap for the implementation of the 2000-2002 Public Investment Plan.
CONCLUSIONS
A high burden of disease and a weak health infrastructure remain the two most
significant health problems facing Cambodia today. With regional cooperation in the Greater
Mekong area strengthening, HIV/AIDS is becoming a new challenge for the country. And
despite major reforms, transparency in the health sector remains a key obstacle for effective



C Chuor CambodfaM Health SituatHon  123
Table 11: Cambodia's Govemment Budget Devoted to Health Sector
1998      1999      2000      2001      2002
Population (thousands)        11,300    11,600    11,900    12,233    12,575
Nominal GDP (million $)        2,973     3,600     4,094     4,490     4,904
Nominal GDP per Capita 1$)      282       427       450        500       550
Exchange Rate (real per $)     3,700     3,500     3,500     3,500     3,500
Health Budget as percent of GDP  0.57     0 81      1 20      1.56      1 94
Health Budget (in $ per capita)  1.49     2.53      413       5 73      7 55
health services delivery. The Asian economic crisis also impacted the sector resulting in
further resources constraints and increased demand for health services. New formidable
tasks are expected as Cambodia gains entry into the ASEAN regional grouping. The health
system has only one third of the necessary structures in place, staff allocation is still not
related to needs, health workers have low skills and are poorly motivated due to low salaries,
and the health sector is seriously under-funded. This has led to poor access to and quality of
public health care and a rapidly developing but unregulated private sector.
But despite these problems, reforms in the health sector since 1993 have put many of
the necessary technical inputs and much of the national capacity in place for implementing
a more effective health system that will respond to the needs of the poor. The combination
of reforms and support of ongoing health programs reflected in the Public Investment Plan
will help Cambodia overcome the many challenges faced in the health sector. Implementing
the program will require a strong political commitment, a multisectoral response, and a
long-term strategy that emphasizes capacity building.
There is no universally effective way of preparing and adopting strategies for health
development. Situations and fundamentals vary from country to country and from place to
place. Choices are particularly difficult in developing countries such as Cambodia that face
harsh resource constraints. The best that can be offered is that choices are made rationally
on a country-by-country basis, depending on epidemiological causality, national
socioeconomic reality, cultural values, and effective use of existing resources.



1 24    Chapter 5 Social Sector Reforms
REFORMING SOCIAL SECTORS AND REDUCING POVERTY:
Two DIFFERENT ISSUES IN MONGOLIA48
INTRODUCTION
Mongolia's transition from a centrally planned totalitanan system to a democratic society
with a free market economy has created difficult challenges for the society. However, since
1995, the country has been gradually emerging from its short-term socio-economic problems:
GDP and per capita income are growing, inflation is under control, and private sector
performance has shown some improvement, particularly in the infonmal sector. Social sector
development is lagging somewhat behind, but some positive social trends are evident.
Between 1995 and 1998, major health indicators such as maternal and infant mortality,
and the incidence of infectious diseases have been declining. Primary school enrollment is
rising again and dropout rates are showing signs of improvement The 1998 Living Standard
Measurement Survey (LSMS) suggests that employment opportunities among the poor are
expanding and poverty is stable-though deepening-at a rate of 36 percent Today, Mongolia
is seeking to implement longer-term approaches to social problems, such as governance
and economic management, unemployment, poverty, education, health, and social
protection. This paper descnbes in broad terms some of the lessons learned from short-
term interventions and strategies that Mongolia plans to implement in the near future.
POVERTY AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT IN MONGOLIA
During the initial penod of transition to a more market-oriented economy, financing for
social sectors was severely constrained During these years, the government gave priority to
short-term interventions in order to maintain social services rather than improving sector
reforms This was necessary because of severe poverty, which increased from a quarter of
the total population in 1992 to more than 36 percent in 1996. Since then, poverty has
remained high, and its severity deepened (according to the most recent [1998] poverty
statistics reported by the National Statistical Office and the World Bank) As a result, illiteracy
(particularly among boys) increased, access to health services declined, society became
more socially unstable, and human development in Mongolia was perceived as a new hurdle
to the development of the country.
Table 12: Major Indicators of Poverty in Mongolia
By Area     Head Count Index       Deepness Index        Difference Index
1995       1998       1995       1998        1995       1998
Urban       38.5      394        12 2        13.9        5.7       7.1
Rural       351       341        104         130         45         74
Total      36.3       35.6       109         117         4.8        56
Source: LSMS 1995,1998
Facing these urgent problems, the Government, with the support of international donors,
took emergency measures to alleviate poverty and strengthen social assistance. In 1994,
the National Poverty Alleviation Program (NPAP) was initiated, and in 1996 the State Social
Assistance Bureau was set up as an independent agency. The NPAP benefited all social
sectors including health, education, and social protection for poor (the program has
distributed more than $1.4 million in relief assistance). But the Program is due to end in
48 This paper was wntten by Sodov Sonin Mr Sonin is the Minister for Health and Social welfare in Mongoila



S Sonin. Reforming Social Sectors and Reducing Poverty  125
2000 and its impact was limited to short-term relief. it did not reduce poverty, particularly in
the urban areas, although it prevented more people from descending into misery New
poverty reduction programs need to address emerging challenges of urban poverty and
migration, severity of poverty, and provide much greater returns on investments.
With improved macroeconomic conditions, the Government, in recent years, has
increased its social sector spending. While expenditures on health and education decreased
or remained steady as a percentage of GDP, expenditures Increased as a percentage of the
Govemment budget. These funding levels make it possible to pursue additional social sector
initiatives that were precluded in the past
Table 13: Changes of Expenditures on Social Subsectors
Subsectors                               1995      1996      1997     1998
Social Assistance (as percent of previous year)  - 8  86.1    55.9     14.9
Social Insurance (as percent of previous year)  64 0  29.5    25.5     19.9
Health (as percentage of GDP)              37        3.6      3.8       3.6
Education (as percentage of GDP)           55        5.3      6.0       5.5
SOCIAL SECTOR STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS
The Government of Mongolia is aware of the need to take a longer-term view on social
sector development Among its main priorities is the development of a comprehensive and
coherent social policy framework within the national development strategy. This will involve
consolidating some programs and interventions and making the sector more responsive to
the population's needs by instituting decentralized decisionmaking at the community level.
Developing an effective social policy framework will require focusing resource allocations to
the social sectors on high return areas such as primary health care, reproductive health,
primary education, distance education and relevant vocational training. The social framework
will also include the private sector, NGOs, and community-based organizations as effective
tools of service delivery. Data systems and information dissemination must also be improved
to permit effective planning and targeting of resources
Some of the planned actions and activities are listed below.
* In education: (i) the utilization of community-based approaches with the involvement
of parents; (ii) the rationalization of contents and standards/norms for all levels of
education, both in formal and distance programs, with controls on implementation;
and (iii) the regular payment of the teachers' salaries and the creation of possibilities
for continuous skills training and regular renewal of their abilities and skills.
* In the employment sector: (i) skills upgrading through reorientation and retraining; (ii)
promoting cooperatives, business associations, and credit unions as a means for creating
jobs, and (ffi) revising tax structures and labor law disincentives to business
establishment and growth.
* For poverty alleviation: (i) Improving access to micro-credit and (ii) providing financial
and technical support for the self-employed especially in agriculture and livestock.
* In the health sector (i) intensifying the implementation of public health refonm programs
and primary health care through an integrated approach; (ii) improving the overall
management of the health system and quality of personnel; and (iii) creating specialized
regional centers with improved distribution of health care services.



126     Chapter 5 . Social Sector Reforrns
In social insurance and social assistance: (i) gradually shifting the pension insurance
system toward self-financed schemes; (ii) creating additional voluntary insurance
schemes for the self-employed and informal sector workers; and (iii) improving the
rehabilitation services for disabled people and their integration into society
The major challenge is, however, the efficient and effective allocation of scarce financial
resources through balancing better social and economic investments, particularly by
improving investments in education, health, and social protection. In addition, as poverty
remains the major problem of the people, there is a need to target poverty alleviation through
the reduction of unemployment, increases in incomes, improvement of social services, and
development of social protection
CONCLUSIONS
Mongolia is now undertaking a longer-term, more comprehensive approach to social
sector investment and poverty alleviation As the social situation worsened during transition,
short-term interventions were the initial response. However, direct assistance to the poor
has not been effective for addressing the longer-term structural problems of human and
income poverty. They did not create the proper incentives and contnbuted to a situation
were poor were made dependent on the public provision of social benefits With the current
economic stabilization in Mongolia, social sector investments with longer-term impacts are
a new priority, particularly in the education and public health sectors. However, the unequal
distribution of the nation's wealth is increasingly challenging social progress, requiring the
Government to take a longer-term perspective on social sector reforms as an engine for
economic growth and human development



M Satybekov. Labor Market Relevant Education Reforms In the Kyrgyz Republic  1 27
LABOR MARKET RELEVANT EDUCATION REFORMS
IN THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC49
The Kyrgyz Republic, a small country of 198,000 square kilometers bordering the PRC,
Kazakhstan, Tajlikistan, and Uzbekistan became independent in 1992. The country has no
access to the sea, and only 7 percent of its land is arable, most of it requiring intensive
imgation Ninety-four percent is mountainous, 40 percent of the country's territory is above
3,000 meters high, with much of that area permanently snow-covered. The mountain barrier
isolates the northern and southern population centers, adding to the geographical
remoteness. GDP was estimated to be $9.7 billion in 1997, with a per capita GDP of $2,100.
The country relies heavily on its neighbors for trade. In 1996 Russia accounted for 22 percent
of the country's imports and 26 percent of exports. The economic crisis that affected Russia
in the late 1990s had a devastating effect on the Kyrgyz Republic economy. The most obvious
results were a slump in production, an increase in the number of companies forced into
bankruptcy, and a substantial loss of jobs and increase of unemployment.
The population of the country is 4.9 million, with 40 percent of its labor force in agriculture
and forestry, and 19 percent in industry and construction. In 1995, an estimated 35 percent
of the labor force was unemployed. The average monthly wage was about $18. Since then,
the situation has got worse. The country has a very young labor force, and a considerable
number of young people are entering the labor market, but jobs are not available Recent
graduates of special schools and institutions of higher learning have further expanded the
potential labor force In addition, due to structural reforms such as the World Bank financed
Public Sector Management Adjustment Program, many are being released from their positions
and need new jobs. Accordingly, in 1997, 44 people competed for every available position.
The Kyrgyz Republic is in the process of transferring to a market economy based on the
equal development of various forms of ownership, the promotion of entrepreneurship, and
increasing pnvatization. Parliament has recently enacted legislation to devise an economic
policy affecting land use, entrepreneurship, and banking. Reforms in the educational system
will be crucial to the implementation of all the other economic policies.
This is the background for education reforms In some respects, the country is in a
favorable situation, as 97 percent of the population is literate, and schooling is compulsory
for those aged six to 15. Vocational education has the most direct relevance to the labor
market. Training and retraining of the adult population is conducted in more than 100
educational establishments. During the period 1991 to 1999, more than 36,000 people
received training and retraining courses provided by local employment services, and 10,500
of them (or 32 3 percent) were provided with jobs. Recipients of this training developed skills
that allowed them to be more competitive and flexible in reacting to economic demands
and the realities of the labor market
Education reforms have been supported by investments from Denmark, Germany,
Sweden, Turkey, and the United States. This year, new projects are planned with funds
allocated from ADB, UNESCO, UNDP, and the Soros Foundation, among others. This foreign
assistance is being used to introduce modern educational technologies and explore new
relationships between employers and employees. Students of lyceums receive thorough
instruction in entrepreneurship, encouraging them to realize their abilities and start their
19 This paper was written by Melisbek Satybekov Mr Satybekov is the Deputy Head for Social-Cultural Development
in the Office of the Prime Minister In the Kyrgyz Republic



1 28    Chapter 5: Social Sector Reforms
own businesses. As a result, employment training in tounsm, car repairs, public services,
traditional craftsmanship, and new skills for starting modern small- and middle-sized
businesses are pursued. Self-employment becomes an antidote to unemployment.
Structural changes in the system of vocational education are being planned to
decentralize management and to transmit additional powers to the local level Educational
establishments will be given greater independence in defining the terms and forms of
education, possibly with free choice of the professions to be trained, all geared to the economic
and social activities of a particular region In the future we plan to create educational-
training complexes, which will combine all kinds of training and education, including higher
education. One of the major ways to improve the quality of education is to integrate the
initial professional and advanced professional education and to create educational-scientific
organizations. Such centers will satisfy the educational demands of the population and
serve as the guarantor of a democratic education for all people.
The experience of the Kyrgyz Republic in the most recent transition years suggests the
importance of investing in vocational training for both modem and traditional skills. However,
a shortage of funds for equipment and textbooks and a lack of markets in this small landlocked
country are preventing strong impact on the labor market In addition, the country does not
stimulate enough flexibility to react to the changes in the labor market and the declining
quality of personnel training. Despite important labor-market relevant investments in the
education sector, the country's future remains challenging.



C Chongsatityoo: ThallandS New TWelve Years of Education for All Program  129
THAwLAND's NEW TWELVE YEARs OF
EDUCATION FOR ALL PROGRAMS°
INTRODUCTION
Several international publications have described Thailand's unsatisfactory educational
performance. Analyses have indicated that the country's rigid, cumbersome, and centralized
bureaucratic structure needs reform. They point to the lack of responsiveness in developing
economic competitiveness and the low participation rates at secondary and tertiary levels
Mediocre performance in mathematics and science, and low educational attainment
compared to our neighboring countries, even during the boom period, have prompted Thai
policymakers, administrators, and practitioners to give serious consideration to developing
the country's competitive abilities. Thailand's Constitution provided for the creation of a
new National Education Act (NEA), which became effective in August 1999. Both the
Constitution and the NEA guarantee the right of every citizen to a 12-year free basic education
by October 2002. The NEA further extends compulsory education from the current six years
to nine years, to be in force by August 2002.
CURRENT SITUATION OF BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Coverage
Six-year compulsory education has been enforced since 1977. The total enrollment
rate for the 6-1 1 years age group has reached 92 percent, but about 500,000 students,
mostly the disabled and those residing in remote rural areas and urban slums, miss school.
At the lower secondary education level {grades 7 to 9) the participation rate has increased
impressively from 57 percent in 1993 to 72 percent in 1998, mainly because of extending
grades 7 to 9 in existing primary schools. Upper secondary education (grades 10 to 12)
offers both general and vocational streams. Enrollment of the relevant 15-17 age group
increased from one million in 1993 to 1.67 million in 1998.
Table 14: Enrollment by Levels and Enrollment Rates (percent In bracket)
Level of Education        1999          2000            2001          2002
Preprimary            2,595 (82)     2,763 (88)      2,939 (94)   3,119 (100)
Primary               6,205 (96)     6,304 (98)     6,337 (99)    6,366 (100)
Lower Secondary       2,831 (85)     2,969 (90)     3,3107 (95)   3,251 (100)
Upper Secondary       2,358 (69)     2,710 (80)     3,056 (91)    3,327 1100)
General                   1,415         1,626           1,834         1,996
Vocational                 943          1,084           1,222         1,331
Total                    13,989        14,746          15,439        16,063
Although pre-primary education is neither compulsory nor included in the 12-year
basic education, it has been accorded a high priority by Thai authorities and parents. Empincal
studies have substantiated the benefits that accrue to students who gain access to
kindergarten. Enrollment of the three to five year cohort in kindergarten increased to almost
91 percent in 1997, but dropped to 86 percent in 1998 due to the economic crisis. Apart
from formal schooling, the Department of Non-formal Education, which is a key actor in
O This paper was written by Chuanchan Chongsatityoo Ms Chongsatityoo is the Senior Adviser for Systems Education
In the Office of National Education Commission in Thailand



130     Chapter S: Socda! Sector Reforms
delivenng non-formal services, has played a crucial role in providing access to people who
missed the opportunity for formal education The services offered include skills training,
evening/weekend formal education-equivalency programs, and distance learning.
Disparity and Inequality
Concerted efforts to expand basic education, especially at the lower secondary level,
through both formal and non-fonmal channels have resulted in diminishing the access gap
between urban and rural areas However, due to unequal income distribution, there is still a
wide dispanty in access For instance, Bangkok had an average yearly household income of
B254,611 in 1996 whereas that for Sn-sa-ket, a province in the Northeast, was 13 times
lower Data show a high correlation between household earnings and educational attainment.
In addition, indicators such as pupil-teacher ratio and students per classroom are also diverse
depending on the poverty in the region For example, the average student to teacher ratio in
the Northeast is 21:1, whereas it is 14-15:1 in the central and western provinces. Similarly,
the students per classroom ratio reveals even greater disparities ranging from 51.7 1 for a
province in the south to 25:1 for an area in the north. There are also wide disparities in
teacher qualifications. In primary and secondary schools 84 percent and 95 percent of
teachers have acquired a bachelor's degree. Teachers in the Northeast have, however, much
lower qualifications than in other parts of the country.
Qualitative inequality emerges at the expense of rapid quantitative expansion Other
factors that adversely affect education quality include conventional rote learning practices,
a teacher-centered approach, the inability among teachers to utilize educational and
information technology, and inadequate in-service teacher training. Schools often resort to
crash training of teachers in other fields in an attempt to redress teacher shortages in
mathematics and sciences by redeploying their trained personnel. As a result, many primary
school students do not perform well in reading, writing, and mathematics Test scores of
those at the lower secondary level in key learning areas such as mathematics and sciences
are far below standard, with only 19 percent passing assessment criteria. Performance at
the upper secondary level is no better Only 27 percent of the students in mathematics and
32 percent in sciences pass the academic achievement tests Student performance in
intemational languages (such as English), essential in this new era, is unsatisfactory. The
education system also fails to inculcate desirable attitudes and values such as independent
thinking, learning skills and self-discipline.
EFFECTS OF THE ECONOMIC CRISIS ON STUDENTS AND INTERVENTION MEASURES
Although Government spending was reduced dunng the crisis period due to austerity
measures, resources for education were barely cut However, in real terms every school now
received a smaller budget share. Rural and smaller schools suffered most as they have
fewer students, hence a smaller endowment. Teachers were also affected and demoralized.
Their income in real terms diminished after the devaluation of the baht. Some teachers in
certain private institutions agreed to cut their salaries so that the entire teaching corps
could stay employed
However, the cnsis provided an opportunity to rethink and restructure the educational
system. In order to cushion the effects on students, the Govemment has provided assistance
in various forms, such as free milk and lunch programs and a student loan scheme for
students in upper secondary and tertiary levels. In addition, there are loans and technical
assistance from international lending and donor agencies such as the Social Sector Program
Loan from ADB, the Social Investment Project (World Bank) and Japanese and World Bank
supported stimulus packages. The additional financial inputs have to a large extent helped
cushion the impact of the crisis on the children of the laid-off and the newly graduated
unemployed



C Chongsatltyoo ThailandS New 7welve Years of Education for All Program  131
Part of these resources are allocated to assist students directly, such as the establishment
of a Scholarship Fund Project. Originally the project targeted students in grades 1 to 9 whose
parents were forced to withdraw their children from school. Later on, project beneficiaries
were expanded to include poor families and Buddhist novices. Most novices come from
poverty-stricken rural families. They enter monkshood as a means to gain access to education
and a better life. Ecclesiastical or Dharma-Pa/i schools usually offer primary and secondary
equivalency program and religious preaching.
STRATEGIES AND MEASURES FOR IMPLEMENTATION
To carry out the education reforms in Thailand, the Govemment issued detailed strategies,
programs, and guidelines together with operational manuals The following five major refornms
have been undertaken in the last years:
1 Reform of the administrative system at the national level Three national agencies-the
Ministry of Education, the Ministry of University Affairs, and the Office of the National
Education Commission-will be merged into a single entity, the Ministry of Education, Religion
and Culture. The new ministry will become more compact as much of the administrative
and management work will be decentralized to educational service areas and educational
institutions. The newly created ministry will mainly be responsible for the formulation of
policy, planning and standards, resource mobilization and allocation, and monitoring and
assessing achievements of operating agencies.
2 The NEA mandates a shiftfrom a centralized system of administration and management
to decentralization. Powers and duties for basic education and education at lower-than-
degree level will be devolved to local entities and schools. The decentralization of authority
and decision-making power to the local level closest to the people is instrumental to
bureaucratic reform. Red tape pertaining to the existing structure will be reduced.
Furthermore, with the reform system in place, student attendance and dropout rates can be
tackled more effectively. At the school or institutional level the practice of site-based
management will be conducive to reforming the learning process, resulting in the
development of a diversified local curriculum that meets the needs of learners and the
community. (The NEA mandates a balanced mixture of core and local curriculum.)
3 Concurrent wth the devolution of educational administration and management, the
law also mandatesfinancialandbudgetaryrefomms Une item budget allocation to departments
and schools will change to general subsidies based on per student expenditure for compulsory
and basic education. Schools will enjoy complete freedom in managing their budget and
resources. All students taking compulsory and basic education will be supported equitably.
However, vulnerable groups with special learning needs will receive additional educational
grants.
4 The reform of learning involves three major changes-
 Teachers are the threshold factor of qualitative improvement The NEA requires that
teachers, administrators, and institutional administrators obtain professional licenses
to be issued by either the Professional Organization for Teachers, Educational
Administrators, or Educational Institution Administrators. At present, teachers in public
schools are on the same pay scale as other government officials. A new pay structure
for teachers will also be devised so as to attract highly qualified professionals. In addition,
a Fund for Promotion and Development of Teachers was set up to give teachers
opportunities for self-development
* Pedagogical reforms emphasize a shift from teacher-centered to student-centered
learning with due attention to the different needs and capacities of learners. The learning
process must integrate knowledge and skills as well as inculcate appropriate values in



132     Chapter 5: Social Sector Reforms
a balanced manner in terms of substance, it must be based on core and local curriculum,
the former developed at the national level, the latter at the institutional level. Accordingly,
performance assessment must be refined to suit the new teaching-learning process.
The law requires the setting up of a system for educational quality assurance, which
comprises both internal and external evaluation. Evaluation reports are to be disclosed
to the public. All schools are subject to external evaluation, which is undertaken by an
independent organization every five years
5 Based on the NEA basic education can be provided in vanous forms and models to suit
leamers with different needs. The law empowers and gives financial support to individuals,
families, communities, community organizations, NGOs, enterprises, and religious
organizations in delivering educational services. These entities are also entitled to incentives
such as tax rebates or tax exemptions. General public and pnvate schools are allowed to
experiment with innovative models of educational provision and management such as
Charter Schools.
CONDlllONS FOR SUCCESS
The economic cnsis in 1997 provided an opportunity for education reform. Passage of
the first National Education Act was extraordinarily fast. Almost all sectors of society, especially
politicians from every party, participated in and supported its deliberations. They recognized
that a major factor contributing to the economic crisis is low educational attainment and
competitiveness compared to other countries, in addition to complacency and weak and
corrupt financial institutions In order for the country to achieve sustainable growth and
development, Thailand must enhance the long-term competitiveness of its people as well
as induce in them desirable values, knowledge, skills, and behavior.
The NEA, a legal framework for education reform, is only the first step forward. Success
depends upon other crucial conditions such as the political stability and the survival of the
coalition government. Economic uncertainties surrounding the sustainability of the economic
recovery still looms, thus raising doubts about adequate investments in education. In the
social sphere, certain population groups do not recognize the importance of education and
shy away from enrolling their children in school due to the rising costs. More important,
education is regarded as an affair of the State and schools Therefore, few care to get involved
seriously Even parents tend to leave everything concerning their children to teachers. Within
the education sector, there is some resistance to reform among those who are affected,
both deliberately and unintentionally. Furthermore, some personnel are not able to adapt
to the new roles and pose serious threats to reform implementation.
The Government has initiated crucial steps to address some of the above mentioned
problems.
* Clear and concrete policy statements on 12 years of basic education Although policies
show strong support for reforms of basic education, the administration is still not
demonstrating strong enough commitment to education reform
* Understanding and participation of the people. Reform issues are complex and affect a
large and diverse number of people. Hence, there must be effective communication to
emphasize reform needs, seek cooperation, and show that the people's participation is
important Designing appropriate communication strategies in relation to each target
group is pivotal and resources should be earmarked for this
* Readiness of more than 600,000 personnel especially teachers and administrators to
perform the new roles and functions effectively Educational personnel must be well



C Chongsatltyoo: Thallands New Tvelve Years of Education for All Program  133
prepared to work as a group in order to exercise decision-making power regarding
policy implementation, monitonng, and evaluation. They must be trained in school-
based management Pilot projects on a small scale should be studied before nationwide
implementation. Lessons from other countries undergoing education reform will be
used and applied to the situation in Thailand.
* Adequacy of resources for both quantitative and qualitative tasks In 1997 and 1999 at
least B1 50,000 million per year was allocated for education reforms. In the coming
years, cost projections need to be made well in advance, and resources need to be
added for other reforms such as training, research and development, communications
campaigns, and increases in teachers' salaries It is crucial that some resources are
shifted from higher to basic education and cost recovery mechanisms are introduced,
such as charging full-cost fees to tertiary students who tend to have higher private
benefits upon graduation. It is equally important to explore ways to mobilize new
resources, for instance through educational taxes. In order to reduce wastage and losses
it is essential to enhance urgently efficiency in education administration and
management
* It is vital to estimate costs and develop as detailed and concrete a work plan as possible,
as well as to set up management information systems, monitoring and evaluation
indicators, and mechanisms for timely problem-solving
CONCLUSION
The Constitution of 1997 has paved the way towards 12 years of basic education while
the National Education Act serves as a strategic plan for overall education reform and the
provision of basic education The reforms are very challenging, as they require merging
three national agencies into one single ministry, decentralizing authority, developing new
teaching professionalism, introducing teaching and administrative licensing, promoting new
payment structures for teachers, and establishing an intemal and extemal evaluation system.
It is expected that the reforms will bring greater efficiency and higher quality However, it is
rather idealistic to aim at achieving 12 years of basic education for all by 2002, as this
requires both extending equitable access as well as quality of education.






Public-Private
6          Interface and
Corporate Responsibilities
THE ROLE OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR FOR POVERTY REDUCTION AND
SociAL DEVELOPMENT IN ASmAS1
POVERTY, GROWTH, AND MARKETS
Poverty Alleviation In Asia
In the wake of the Asian economic crisis, there has been renewed appreciation of the
private sector's role in development as an engine of growth and a necessary ingredient in
reducing poverty. Through growth and markets, dramatic strides are possible in poverty
reduction In the PRC, for example, rural poverty has fallen from about 75 percent to 10
percent in 20 years attnbutable, inter alia, to the adoption of market policies in 1979 in the
rural sector. In Viet Nam, currently the world's most successful poverty reducer, poverty fell
from 58 percent to 37 percent in five years through growth and marketization. Forty years
ago, the Republic of Korea's per capita income was less than $200, placing it below Bangladesh
today The country has successfully transformed into an OECD member with a world-class
manufacturing system, and an income distribution that is the envy of many-inside and
outside the region.
How has this Asian miracle happened? Asia has much to teach the world here. Overall
economic strategies make a difference: inward-looking, protectionist policies tend to lead to
poor resource use and do not encourage the adoption of new technologies Those countries
that have adopted outward looking, market-onented policies have made relatively greater
strides in reducing poverty. And, attempts by the state to replace markets have a poor track
record, both in the communist world and in those less developing countries that have adopted
a dingiste model.52 But, the Asian miracle also attests that one cannot argue for unfettered
or unrestrained market forces. Unregulated markets can lead to political instability and
income inequality as demonstrated by the failures in Russia. Weak governance can lead to
economic crisis, and an effective, and well-governed state is needed to create the right
environment for human development and poverty reduction.
Growth and Poverty Reduction
Growth and markets are necessary (but not sufficient-see below) to poverty reduction
because they create jobs that use labor, the main asset of the poor. In a robustly growing
economy, private sector employment will become the major source of economic support for
workers and their families. Growth depends on productive investments and on poor people
making use of their skills. (As outlined below, for the poor to have opportunity and access
requires a core of public expenditures focussed on safety nets, building up the human
capital of the poor and empowerment-which has both political and economic dimensions).
The macro-level and other market-supporting reforms that enable local people to save,
" This paper was prepared by Christine Wallich Ms Wallich Is the Director of the Infrastructure, Energy, and Financial
Sectors Department, and the Head of the Pnvate sector Group of the Asian Development Bank The assistance of
Arlene Tadle is gratefully acknowledged
5W World Bank, 1995 Bureaucrats in Business The Economics and Politics of Govemment Ownership New York Oxford
University Press



136      Chapter 6 Public-Pnvate Interface and Corporate Responsibilities
invest, and improve their lives, are the same reforms that encourage inward investments. In
rural and urban areas, the private sector and market-fnendly policies have a pnmary role in
creating improved livelihoods.
Growth also increases the tax base that enables government, politically motivated to
act on good governance principles, to finance the targeted poverty reduction programs,
social safety nets, and basic social services that are directly addressing poverty. Health and
education services, in particular, give the poor a better chance to increase their productivity
and earning capacity Poverty support programs have a stronger constituency when the
economic pie is growing-and may not have a good chance when it is shrinking. Certainly,
in Asia, growth and markets-coupled with public expenditures on education and health,
especially in East Asia- have been a powerful weapon in the fight against poverty, where
the poverty headcount decreased more rapidly than any other region of the world.
However, both the level of growth and its pattern-how the benefits of growth are
distributed and generated-matter for poverty reduction. In countries such as Malaysia and
Indonesia, growth and distribution effects have reinforced each other-the ideal outcome-
and have led to a strong impact on poverty reduction But, it is also worth noting-although
certainly not an ideal case-that other East Asian countries have shown that growth can
lead to a decline in the poverty headcount, even despite a rise in inequality.53 From 1993 to
1998 in Viet Nam, for example, poverty declined substantially due to rapid growth despite a
rise in inequality There are also exceptional cases such as in Thailand (1975-1986) where
inequality worsened to such a degree that its effects swamped those of growth, and the
poverty situation (headcount) worsened.
ENSURING THE 'QUALITY OF GROWTH'
The Ingredients of Pro-poor Growth
While market-led development and growth are key for poverty alleviation, not all growth
will be pro-poor What makes growth pro-poor is a complex set of public sector interventions
and policies that allow the poor equitable access to (i) income earning opportunities, (ii)
resources such as land and credit, and (iii) relevant social, particularly education and health,
services. The "three Cs"-human capital, credit, and capital in the form of land and resources-
are key to achieving "quality of growth.,
The 'quality of growth" will also depend on policies aimed at making labor markets
function well, allowing opportunity for income generation and employment. Sound
macroeconomic policies are also critical, as the poor suffer most from macro instability.
Exchange rate policies, for example, can avoid biases against agncultural products or other
labor-intensive exports.54
Equally important are transparency and accountability in government to ensure that
public spending is effective and reaches the poor. Many studies have shown that corruption-
overt or covert-affects the poor because it slows economic growth,55 and through skewing
incentive structures, increases income inequality Often, capital intensive (and "bribe-friendly")
projects are favored over labor intensive ones. Corruption also inclines public spending
towards infrastructure projects and away from social sectors, and affects the targeting of
social programs to the truly needy as funds are siphoned from poverty programs by well-
Viet Nam Attocking Poverty, Viet Nam Development Report 2000 joint Report of the Govemment of Viet Nam-
Donors-NGO Poverty Worlung Group, Consultative Group Meeting for Viet Nam, 14-15 December 1999
'4 Lustig, N 2000 Cnses and the Poor Socially Responsible Macroeconomics Santiago, Chile, October 1999 and World
Bank 2000 World Development Report 1999/2000 New York Oxford University Press
M Mauro, P 1995 "Corruption and Growth" Quarterly loumal of Economics, 110, 681-712



C Wallich. The Role of the Private Sector for Poverty Reduction  137
connected people. Cross-country regressions show that a one percent increase in the
corruption index reduces income growth of the poorest 20 percent of the population by
almost 8 percent per annum At the same time, a worsening in the corruption index of a
country by one standard deviation is associated with the same increase in the Gini coefficient
as a reduction in average secondary schooling of 2.3 years.56
The composition of public spending also determines the quality of public goods and
the sustainability of poverty reduction. Ensuring appropriate levels of public spending on
education, for example, does not necessarily result in a well-educated labor force allowing
for poverty reduction. What is needed is the right kind of spending at the right time to the
right income group For example, in the 1960s and early 1 970s, roughly two thirds of the
Republic of Koreas education spending went to compulsory basic education.57 In the 1990s,
public subsidies to primary students were two to three times those to tertiary students
(tertiary education was mainly financed by private spending). The Republic of Korea was
able to expand basic education rapidly and reduce educational inequality from a Gini of
0.55 in 1960 to 0.15 in 1995 In some Asian countries, Gini coefficients declined much more
slowly. A distribution of education as skewed as that of some Asian countries, implies a
huge social loss from the under-utilization of potential human capital.
To improve the "quality of growth," public expenditure and policies will have to be
allocated following pro-poor priorities. This means, inter alia, promoting the build-up of
human capital, especially among the poor, and reducing regressive subsidies benefiting
capital and increasing economic opportunity. In sum, the "quality of growth"-its distribution,
sustainability, stability, and governance-and how much growth reduces poverty, is largely
a matter of public sector governance-the framework within which private sector decisions
are made.
WHAT THE PRIVATE SECTOR CAN DO TO ALLEVIATE POVERTY
The private sector's contribution to poverty reduction will mainly come through growth,
employment, and income generation. Whether this growth is pro-poor will depend mainly
on good public sector governance. In addition, the private sector can contribute to poverty
reduction by (i) freeing up public resources through infrastructure investments; (ii) designing
infrastructure privatizations with pro-poor impacts; (iii) pursuing public-private partnerships
through creative infrastructure designs; (iv) getting involved directly in social services
provision; and (v) promoting public-private-civil society coalitions for corporate social
responsibility
Public Resource Allocation: The Private Sector and Infrastructure
Apart from support to industry, agriculture, and social sectors, investments in
infrastructure-power, water, roads, and telecommunication-account for much of the public
budget. Increasingly, however, Asian countries are finding that with appropriate regulatory
frameworks, the private sector can also provide such services. Private investment in
infrastructure projects can relieve pressure on public budgets and thus enable governments
to redirect resources to social spending and other priorities.
5" Gupta, s, Davoodi, H., and Alonso-Terme, R 1998 'Does Corruption Affect Income inequality and Poverty?' In IMF
Working Paper 98/76, iMF, May 1998
57 World Bank 2000 'rhe Quality of Growth' A background paper for world Development Report 1999/2000 February
2000



138      Chapter 6. Public-Private Interface and Corporate Responsibilities
Infrastructure, Privatization, and Pro-poor Impacts
Infrastructure pnvatization is often contentious, because it affects vested interests, and
may often imply downsizing and therefore a need to mitigate social costs. However, the
efficiency gains from privatizing utilities can benefit all income classes by improving access
of the poor to services, reducing pnces for all by improving billing and collection, and by
ensuring those who get services pay. Subsidies to loss-making public utilities are typically
financed by regressive tax systems, and subsidized pncing of electricity, water, and transport
often benefits the better off families and farmers, landowners, and the industrial sector
more than the poor.58 As the wealthy consume more utilities than the poor, the policy of
subsidizing such prices tends to affect the poor negatively
Pnvatization with effective regulation to ensure appropriate tariff policy and lifeline
tanffs can benefit lower income groups relatively more than the better off. In Argentina, for
example, the gains from effective privatization represented 20 percent of spending on utilities
by the poorest segments, compared with 17 percent for the richest. By contrast, owners of
the pnvatized utilities kept much of the economic benefit when pnvatization took place and
regulation was ineffective. On average, the richest income class households' gained equal
59 percent of typical spending on utility services compared with 29 percent for the poorest
Public-private Partnerships
Public-private partnerships can be used to make infrastructure services increasingly
available to the poor. This can be done through concessions that call for bidders to provide
public water standpipes to poorer areas or to charge low lifeline tanffs for power supply,
with the associated cost to be borne by government in the form of lower concession revenues.
Public-pnvate partnerships can help address poverty, as governments recognize that creative
concessions must be underwritten by the public budget, and as private companies realize
the value of 'collaborative investing" for community relations and financial returns.
For example, ADB was recently involved in the pnvatization of Manila's water supply
system, where the bidding documents for the concession asked the potential concessionaires
to include public faucets in selected slum communities, where poor families had traditionally
purchased trucked-in water from unreliable private parties at exorbitant prices While clearly
implying lower concession revenues for the Government, this creative bid design resulted in
close to 50,000 low-income families-more than 250,000 people-gaining access to potable
water. Similarly, the privatized Buenos Aires metro and the Sao Paolo public transport system
were concessioned based on performance standards that included keeping open some
loss-making lines to poor urban areas. The Government requested bids for the smallest
subsidy payment to the concessionaire and fewest years of public subsidy. The cost of this
"negative concession" was much less than the projected discounted value of the budgetary
hemorrhage of the public company's losses.
The additional advantage of explicitly including the pro-poor intervention in the
concession's design, is that the subsidy to the non-cost recovering activity becomes
transparent and implicit. An altemnative approach would be to opt for cross-subsidies within
the system, i e., higher ("excessively" profitable or more-than-cost-recovering) prices for some
consumers or transport routes that would offset the losses from the non-cost-recovering
areas This would, however, mean "inefficient" pncing for some parts of the system. In addition,
such cross-subsidies are not transparent and perhaps not sustainable, as the private
concessionaire will have few incentives to provide low-cost services
'8 Freund, C, and C Wallich 1995 'Raising Household Energy Prices in Poland Who Gains" Who Loses?" Policy
Research Working Paper No 1495, World Bank (August 1995;
'9 Chisan, 0, A. Estache, and C Romero 1997 "The Distribution of Gains from Utility Privatization and Regulation in
Argentina" Public Policy for the Pnvate Sector 12 (December 19971 33-36



C Wallich The Role of the Private Sector for Poverty Reduction  139
Private Sector Involvement in the Delivery of Social Services
The role of private (for profit) enterprises in the social sector is getting increased attention
The private sector often supplies "for-profit" social services such as tertiary hospitals, technical
and vocational education, and higher education to the higher income groups. As in the case
of infrastructure, the impact of private sector involvement is indirect because the reallocation
of resources is rarely directly poverty-focused since the poor cannot often pay for such
services. However, government resources may be freed up for the sector needs of lower
income groups.
Another model for private sector participation in the social sector is "private provision
with public financing." Under this model, the private sector can be engaged on a contractual
basis to operate not-for-profit social facilities, such as schools and health clinics. With proper
oversight, private sector management can be more efficient than public administration and
can deliver better and more innovative service at a lower cost. Many countries are
experimenting with public and insurance-financing health services provided by the private
sector.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Pnvate companies can have a direct effect on poor people through the way they do
business-how they deal with social and environmental issues, health and safety, corruption,
and the local economy. Calls for "social responsibility" on the part of the private sector have
been gaining ground.60 Corporate social responsibility embraces standards of good business
practice that can apply to all firms. Large retailers such as Wal-Mart, K-Mart, Sears Roebuck,
etc., face calls for action against poor working conditions in foreign plants that produce
clothing for them under sub-contracting arrangements, even if the retailer has no equity
ownership nor even foreign presence in the country in which the poor labor conditions
exist6'
In the Philippines, the Philippine Business for Social Progress in the Philippines, was
organized some 30 years ago as a social development foundation of private companies.
Each member company allocates 1 percent of its pretax profits for social development and
poverty alleviation programs The Caux Round Table,62 and the UK's Prince of Wales Business
Leaders Forum63 are other examples of business groups addressing broad social responsibility
concerns.
Expectations about private enterprises, especially the multinationals, are changing
because of their expanded role in a globalizing society. A growing number of companies
including Nike, Reebok, and Shell, have started adopting individual corporate codes of conduct
in response to intense public criticism of labor conditions existing in foreign plants of some
of their contractors. Even without direct public criticisms, private companies are taking it
"D See also Kinder, P, 5 Lydenberg, and A. Domini 1993 Investing for Good Making Money While Being Socially
Responsible Harper Business Publishers
Investor Responsibility Research center Report on Global Labor and Environmental Standards l19991, as cited In
The Social Responsibility of Transnational Corporations, 1999 World Investment Report
62 The caux Round Table (CRrl is an organization of 250 senior business leaders from 25 countries advocating for the
cntical leadership role of business in a global economy CRT has published the Principles for Business the most
widely circulated and accepted worldwide standards for ethical and responsible business practice, in 12 languages
It has been cooperating with governments, NGOs, and Intemational finance Institutions in pursuing corporate
social responsibility activities In several developing countries
63 The Prince of Wales Business Leaders Forum Is an organization consisting of s0 chief executive officers, chairpersons
and senior executives from leading intemational companies, working In some 30 emerging and transition economies
While promoting corporate social responsibility, the Forum Is active In Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka
in the fields of health and safety, human rights and security, civil society and cohesion, as well as in enterprise and
economic development



140     Chapter 6. Public-Pnvate Interface and Corporate Responsibilities
upon themselves to join development banks, NGOs, and various groups of stakeholders in
finding ways of doing business which are socially responsible and which benefit the poor.
An example in case is Merck Pharmaceutical, which has been providing the medicine Mectizan
free of charge for as long as the river blindness in sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America
needs to be treated.
Responsible business behavior can also bring immediate business benefits. It can build
reputation, help business better understand the wider context, build a better environment
to tackle issues that could become potential threats, and help motivate staff. This is recognized
in the concept of the "triple bottom line"-economically viable, environmentally sound, socially
responsible-which many companies have already adopted for themselves The coalition
among civil society, private enterprises, international financial institutions, and local
communities will benefit private sector partners in terms of improving their market
performance by showing that the pnvate sector has social and broader economic interests,
and by providing the private sector investment with legitimacy.
But, the changes brought about by business responses to calls for corporate social
responsibility also drive changes in LDCs that can be locally resented, such as core labor
standards being (internationally) market-driven, or that markets are being opened for
"Westem values." Developing country practices could differ from those in developed countries,
for example in the areas of child labor, labor and trade unions, resettlement, and
environmental concems. Some developing countries allege that labor protection practices
such as occupational safety legislation may, in the short run, lead employers to substitute
capital for labor on the margin, or to move production facilities to countnes with less stringent
labor laws. The situation should improve as corporate responsibility becomes more widely
accepted. This is an area where foreign assistance agencies and businesses are increasingly
working together. For example, UK's Department for Intemational Development (DFID) has
provided expertise and financial and administrative support for an 'Ethical Trading Initiative,"
under which business, trade unions, and NGOs in the retail sector examine supply chains in
poorer countries against an agreed code of conduct, which includes key commitments on
labor standards.
CONCLUSION
The private sector needs to play an active role in poverty reduction While it is not in a
position to provide non-cost-recovering social services on its own or to engage in not-for-
profit activities without compensation, the indirect impacts of growth and markets can be
substantial. Growth and markets create jobs, and the pnvate sector has a primary role in
creating improved livelihoods However, not all private sector-led development will be pro-
poor. Much will depend on public sector interventions and policies that allow access to
income and employment opportunities by the poor, as well as good govemance to ensure
that social expenditures are effective and actually reach the poor As the private sector
cannot be expected to undertake extensive poverty interventions on its own, more public-
pnvate partnerships are needed
The rapid globalization that opens the Asian developing countries to vanous forms of
market-driven changes can also help, if that investment is socially responsible. However,
while market-driven changes are the most powerful, they can also be contentious. Recently,
there has been a proliferation of groups expounding varying social responsibility concerns,
and confronting the international business community, especially transnational companies.
And this is where the challenge lies As the economic interdependence of the global
community spreads, greater efforts must be made by all the stakeholders-public, private,
civil societies, international finance institutions, local communities-to work together in
addressing the social, economic, and environmental adlustment costs, especially to the
poor, that accompany such globalization.



R De Ocampo. Corporate Responsibility for Social Development in the Philippines  141
CoRPoRATE RESPONSIBILITY FOR SocIAL DEVELOPMENT
IN THE PHILIPPINES64
INTRODUCTION: SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC COSTS OF THE ASIAN FINANCIAL CRISIS
Despite the many advances in the last quarter of this century, poverty continues to rise
in many parts of the world. The Asian financial crisis, first seen as an isolated incident
affecting Thailand, quickly spread to other parts of Asia, and led to the drying up of pnvate
financial flows to emerging markets. Industrial countries, at first largely insulated from the
effects of the Asian crisis, began to feel the effects, particularly because of the deepening
recession in Japan. Concerns about a global credit crunch and a worldwide economic
slowdown were also expressed
The East Asia crisis is believed to have produced millions of new poor people, halting
progress achieved in the last 20 years. Urban areas account for a rising share of the poor,
with Indonesia and the Republic of Korea exhibiting major increases in urban poverty.
(Indonesia reflected an increase in incidence of poverty of about 10 percent since 1997).
Another important consideration is the transition costs to affected workers, like those affected
by downsizing or those whose skills may be industry-specific or outmoded In such cases,
companies may need incentives to continuously retrain workers to help them update/
upgrade their skills, so that they can move on to other jobs/responsibilities.
RESPONSES TO THE CRISIS
The Asian crisis was basically the product of interacting shortcomings in the global
system, flawed national financial systems, and deficient corporate and public govemance
Responses to the crisis were generally focused on:
* macroeconomic policies designed to stabilize the economy and support economic
recovery. Monetary policy was used to contain inflation and restore stability in the
exchange markets; fiscal policy was aimed at complementing monetary policy, and for
the seriously affected, provide for bank restructuring. However, as recession deepened,
and social costs escalated, fiscal policies were relaxed,
* structural reform, particularly in the financial and corporate sectors, as this was
considered essential to address the root causes of the crisis, restore market confidence,
and to set the stage for the sustainable resumption of growth. However, structural and
social concerns should be treated equally with macroeconomic and financial concerns;
and
* large official financing packages to complement the macroeconomic and structural
policies adopted. These were meant to help break the self-reinforcing cycle of capital
outflows, exchange rate depreciation, and financial sector weakness.
The collapse of the financial sector, devaluation and retrenchment affect the entire
economy with an impact on all segments of society. The most senously affected of these are
the poor, wherein small changes in income can easily put them and their households below
the subsistence level. Socioeconomic crisis often causes (i) a decline in real income as a
result of the loss of employment or the lowering of real wages; (iI) a reduction in essential
public services delivery, such as health, nutrition, and education services as a result of
i This paper was written by Roberto F de Ocampo Mr de Ocampo is currently the President of the Asian Institute of
Management In Manila, Phillppines From 1994 to 1998 he was the Secretary of the Philippines Ministry of Finance



142     Chapter 6. Public-Pnvate Interface and Corporate Responsibilities
reduced govemment spending; and (iii) the loss of value of assets through bankruptcy of
financial system or public social secunty system, or by a decline in prices of physical assets
such as land and stocks
The crisis itself may generate a number of "coping strategies" on the part of those
affected These could include the sale of assets and use of savings, if any, taking up additional
work or having family members join the labor force earlier than normal, i e., when children
are taken out of school and forced to work to augment the family's Income. jobs come in the
form of overseas employment or migration. Families seek support from extended families,
local communities, and institutions Households restructure by having families live together
and in some cases, nonworking family members, mostly women, children and the elderly
reduce their food intake. Some of these strategies could result in long term effects exacerbating
poverty in the future, such as when children are taken out of school when the parent loses
a job.
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND GOVERNANCE TO ADDRESS THE ASIAN CRISIS
The Asian crisis required huge rescue funds from multilateral and bilateral donors
particularly for Indonesia, Republic of Korea, and Thailand. Mechanisms were developed to
undertake rescheduling or restructunng of private sector liabilities, to restore conditions for
rolling over maturing lines of credit, and secure new finance. To involve the pnvate sector,
governments needed reforms to make risk taking for the private sector and the behavior in
the financial sector rational. Restoring the corporate sectors of affected economies is
necessary to fix the banking and financial sector Discussions on corporate governance
emphasized the inadequacy of domestic laws to regulate corporate govemance
An ADB study noted that in many of the affected economies, standards for corporate
governance were defective. Such are the cases when there is a conflict in credit assessment
or a failure to impose and enforce proper standards of corporate governance This often
causes (i) the corporation to disregard its stakeholders; and (ii) the inadequate use of
accounting standards, auditing practices and the absence or disregard of internal financial
controls In extreme cases corporate govemance is deemed defective when political and
government patronage, cronyism, or corruption affect the management of a corporation or
when close family ties influences the objective assessment and management of the financial
position of a corporation
Corporate restructuring improves performance. However, often, performance effects of
restructuring may be a matter of wealth transfer rather than value creation. In such a case,
employees, communities, bondholders, and even customers suffer while investors gain. It is
therefore important to set standards for corporate govemance. OECD and APEC stressed the
need for better govemance practices OECD defines corporate governance as 'involving the
set of relationships between a company's management, its board, its shareholders, and
stakeholders" Corporate governance is also said to "provide the structure through which
the objectives of the companies are set, the means of obtaining those objectives and the
monitonng of performance." OECD has listed good govemance practices designed primarily
for publicly traded companies, but are also useful for privately held and govemment-owned
enterprises. The guidelines include.
* nghts of shareholders;
* equitable treatment of shareholders (prohibition of insider trading, disclosures by
directors and managers on "material interest");
* rights of stakeholders,
* disclosure and transparency: Corporations should be required to disclose material



R De Ocampo. Corporate Responsibility for Social Development in the Phtlippines  143
information on financial matters, compariy obje'ctives, major share ownership, members
of the board of directors and their remuneration, and govemance structures and policies;
and
responsibilities of the Board of Directors: Traditional fiduciary pnnciples of acting in
good faith, with due care and diligence and in the best interest of the country. Monitoring
govemance practices, ensuring integrity of accounting and financial reporting systems,
overseeing disclosure processes.
PROMOTING SOCIAL POLICY IN A GLOBAUZING WORLD
The Asian crisis prompted a number of measures to deal with the instabilities in the
global and national financial systems that included macroeconomic adjustments. However,
these introduced adverse effects on the disadvantaged sectors of the crisis-affected
economies. These measures, which may have helped to restore these economies, need to
be balanced with measures that will provide "social safety nets" to those least able to bear
the burden of economic adjustment. Also, to define the development needs and implement
the appropnate programs, governments need to interface and build relationships with the
private sector, NGOs, assistance agencies, and organizations of civil society.
The following characteristics of good "safety nets" were identified for Latin American
countries, and are deemed to equally apply to Asian economies. They should (i) provide
sufficient coverage of the population to reach particularly the most vulnerable, or "excluded"
groups, as in rural areas; (ii) be well targeted to the poor, with clear criteria for eligibility and
termination; (iii) be based on a sound analysis of who is likely to be affected by a crisis, and
what kinds of coping mechanisms are normally used by the poor, (iv) be countercyclical
and automatic, with well established rules/institutions so that access is simple and
predictable; (v) prove fiscally sustainable; (vi) be able to provide benefits quickly, (vii)
complement, not substitute for, private safety net programs; (viii) try to use or deal with
institutions already in place; and (ix) scale back when the crisis is over.
Programs focused on basic health (such as immunizations, disease control and primary
health care centers); education (assistance to schools and students in disadvantaged areas
and indigenous people, school grants, and scholarships), and nutrition should generally be
prioritized. Other areas include social protection such as pensions, subsidized housing and
social security. However, given limited resources, it is important that these programs be
targeted directly to the poor.



144      Chapter 6. Public-Pnvate Interface and Corporate Responsibilities
PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS IN HEALTH AND EDUCATION:
CONCEPTUAL ISSUES AND OPTIONS65
INTRODUCTION
Many developing countries face pressing challenges in the health and education sectors.
Constraints in financial resources, coupled with continually nsing demand for equal access
to quality health and education services to meet the diverse needs of the individual, leave
many governments with few options other than to seek collaboration with the private sector
This has resulted in a greater involvement of the private sector, including both for profit and
nonprofit organizations, in the financing and management of health and education services.
Who are potential players and what are their strengths and weaknesses? How do partners
collaborate? What are the key issues involved in building partnerships? These are the
questions this paper attempts to answer.
RATIONALE FOR PARTNERSHIPS
Strong claims for public-private partnerships are built on the belief that all players,
their contributions, and their services in promoting health and education services should
be recognized, coordinated, and further explored through workable collaboration
mechanisms. The partnerships should result in quality health and education services being
provided on an equitable basis and with effectiveness and efficiency.
There are many ways of defining the public and private sectors In this paper, 'public
sector" refers to government-sponsored organizations and public institutions, and "pnvate
sector" to nongovemment institutions or groupings. The private sector can be further divided
into profit-onented and non-profit organizations. According to this classification, public and
private sector institutions providing health and education services are shown in Table 15
Table 15: Actors for Providing Social Services
through the Public and Private Sectors
P Public Sector                 Private Sector
National Govemment            Commercial Enterpnses
Provincial/State Government   Nongovemment Organizations
District/Municipal Administrations  Voluntary Groups
Local Government Institutions  Religious Groups
Intemational Agencies         Professional Organizations
Households
in almost all developing countries, the public sector is confronted with a lack of resources
and with the need to raise funds required to provide an adequate level of health and
education services. For this reason, almost all governments have policies to encourage the
nongovernment sector to contribute to health and education As a result, contributions
from the private sector in financing of health and education services are substantial. For
example, the shares of pnvate financing for the health and education sectors in selected
Asian countries range from 40 to 80 percent, In Thailand and India, its share is more than
three times that of the public sector (see Rosenthal, G, and W Newbrander 1997 Pnvate
Health Sector Growth in Asia issues and Implications New York John Wiley and Sons. 11-24).
In all Asian countries household contributions are found to be significant; for example in
65 This paper was written by Yidan Wang Ms Wang is the Training and Leaming Methods Specialist of the Asian
Development Bank Institute in Tokyo, Japan



Y Wang Public-Private Partnerships in Health and Education  145
Cambodia, households met three quarters of the total costs for social services and in Viet
Nam about 50 percent.
Private organizations have also been involved in managing and delivering health and
education services. Non-profit organizations including communities and NGOs, have been
successful in serving the needs of the poor, girls, women, and other disadvantaged groups.
The for-profit organizations, such as business and corporations, are known for providing
good services particularly in special schools and hospitals as well as social insurance that
respond to market needs. In many cases, private services providers have cooperated with
governments through effective and efficient management of government subsidized or
funded services. In other cases, they address the needs of local communities in extending
the services provided by governments.
While the private sector's contributions have raised the general level of resources, the
issue of ensuring social equity and efficiency in the health and education sectors is becoming
pivotal. Exclusive reliance on private services may mean more efficient services delivery,
but this often comes at the cost of equity as the needs of certain groups in the society may
not be met Public sector activities can also Influence the attainment of govemment objectives
in the health and education sectors. To protect the needs of all, the Government needs to
coordinate the activities of both the pnvate and the public sector and moderate services
delivery through policies, rules, and regulations.
Table 16: Distribution of Public-Private Expenditures for
Health and Education, 1990
Country              Health Expenditures Percentage of  Education Expenditures
Gross National Product          Relative Share for
Public Primary Schools
Total     Public     Private    Govemment    Households
I Bangladesh              3.2        1.4        1.8          NA           NA
Cambodia                NA         NA        NA            24           76
People's Republic of China  3.5   2.1         1 4          78           22
India                   6.0        1.3       4 7           NA           NA
Indonesia               2.0        07         1.3          89           11
Lao PDR                 2.5        10        15            75           25
Malaysia                3.0        1.3        1 7          NA           NA
I Nepal                   4.5        2 2        2.3          NA           NA
Philippines             2.0        1 0        1 0          65           35
Sri Lanka               3.7        1.8        19           NA           NA
Thailand                5.0        11         3.9          82           18
NA - no data available.
Sources. Rosenthal, G and w Newbrander 1997 Fnvate Health Sector Growth in Asia. Issues and Imphcatrons
New York John Wiley and Sons, and Bray, M. 1996 Counting the Full Cost Parental and Community Fiaoncing of
Education in EastAsia Washington DC The World Bank.
UNDERSTANDING THE STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES OF THE INSTITUTIONS INVOLVED
Forming public and pnvate partnerships is a complicated process, because the public
and private sectors, including profit-onented and nonprofit organizations, operate under
different approaches and principles Generally, the public sector is concemed with providing
health and education to all. Their services generally do not exclude social groups, and are
often provided at a minimum cost or even free of charge. However, as public resources are
mostly inadequate, the quality and efficiency of social services provided through the public
sector are sometimes problematic



146     Chapter 6 . Public-Private Interface and Corporate Responsibilities
Nonprofit and public sectors generally share the same goals, but the former is more
concerned with the needs of those that are neglected by governments (such as women, the
disadvantaged groups, and those in the rural and remote areas).
The profit-oriented organizations such as businesses and corporations, on the other
hand, are more dynamic in serving market needs. The costs of their services are much
higher and their quality better, but more exclusive. However, not all services provided by
the private sector are of reasonable quality and efficiently delivered The profit-onented
organizations, including business corporations, are not overly concemed about issues such
as equal access. They tend to avoid services to those whose payment capacity is limited.
"Although often acknowledged by advocates of pnvatization, the potential problems are
sometimes treated much too casually, as if they are easy to overcome and are causing only
minor inconveniences" (Hatry, H. P. 1989. Introduction. In Allen, 1. et al (ed.) 1989. The Pnvate
Sector in State Service Delivery. Washington DC: The Urban Institute Press Page 5)
Similarly, NGOs often lack the necessary expertise and specialization for providing
adequate health and education services. In Bangladesh, for instance, the for-profit sector,
which accounts for about twothirds of the country's health sector expenditures, consists of
medical practitioners of whom only 20 percent received training in recognized institutions
A large number of non-certified practitioners are self-taught or have gone through only
some paramedic training. These non-certified practitioners together with some pharmacy
owners, providing the most widely accessible health care to the general population at large,
are the source of misuse and abuse of drugs, and cause undue wastage of health expenditures
in the country (see Ahmed, M. 1999 Promoting Public-Pnvate Partnership in Health and
Education The Case of Bangladesh Paper presented at the Public-Private Partnerships in the
Social Sector workshop organized by the Asian Development Bank Institute 5-9 July 1999).
In such a situation the government needs to strengthen its role in training, certifying,
regulating, and bringing about a coordinated and improved system of health care.
Promoting nonprofit organizations, such as NGOs and community-based organizations,
as partners of government may have a significant impact on the improvement of equity and
access to the poor and those living in underdeveloped areas. Yet there are issues that must
be addressed when incorporating NGOs as partners with govemments Green and Mathias
show, using the family planning example, that the policies of NGOs may be inconsistent
with those of governments (Green, A. and A. Matthias. 1995. Where Do NGOs Fitln7 Developing
a Policy Framework for the Health Sector Development in Practice England: Oxfam. 313-323).
Furthermore, lack of coordination between NGOs may lead to duplication and inefficient
allocation of services. Finally, NGOs may suffer from management problems, resulting in a
lack of accountability and quality.
KEY ISSUES IN DEVELOPING PARTNERSHIPS
Policymakers often do not understand the conditions needed to establish well
functioning public-pnvate partnerships. Several key issues must be addressed to create an
enabling environment for the good of all.
Governance. A well-defined governance structure is essential to effectively distnbute
responsibilities to all partners. The role of the public sector at different levels (national,
provincial, local) and the respective responsibilities of the for-profit organizations, NGOs,
and households need to be clarified. This legal and policy framework is missing in
many developing countries.
Accountability. Effective partnerships require that all players are held accountable for
the delivery of efficient and effective services. The public sector has often been singled



Y Wang Public-Private Partnerships In Health and Education  147
out for not being accountable for the quality and equitable services it provides. Private
for-profit organizations and NGOs also have weaknesses. Therefore, they have to be
made accountable for the outcome of the services they deliver, although individually
they are responsible to their own organizations for meeting their organization's own
goals. It is often found that communities, when encouraged to monitor project progress,
have substantially improved accountability of government sponsored schemes, resulting
in raised service standards.
Participatory Process. For partnerships to work, it is necessary to involve all stakeholders
in the activity planning process as early and as deeply as possible This will encourage
all to assume ownership in all phases of the cycle of a program Problems arise when
one or more players are excluded at some stages in the process In India, for example,
NGOs are reluctant to participate in implementing government programs because they
are not consulted during the planning stage Even when they are requested to participate
in the implementation phase of the programs, they often decline as they feel the planning
process is not participatory.
An enabling environment. The government can play an important role in promoting
partnerships by creating an enabling environment which includes, inter alia, clear legal,
regulatory, and policy frameworks. However, in many developing countries, governments
adopt policies that encourage involvement of the private sector in social services, while
at the same time, govemment officials are undermining and hindering the private sector's
activities. Governments often act as if they were the only providers of services and they
often neglect the contributions of other parties. The gaps between public policy
statements that encourage the private sector's involvement in providing social services
and the actual treatment need to be narrowed.
MODELS OF PARTNERSHIPS
There is no one model of partnerships for all situations. The nature and extent of the
roles of the public and the private sectors are country-specific. Good examples of partnerships
include:
The public sector assisting the pnvate sector. Thailand supports private sector participation
and considers the private sector and NGOs as valuable contributors to meeting citizens'
increasing demand for health and education services. A successful example is the
partnership between the Ministry of Public Health and the Phya Thai Group;
publicfinance and private delivery. The Government of Bangladesh formulated a national
policy to achieve health development through partnerships with the private sector.
TWo hundred NGOs of varying sizes were given substantial assistance from international
agencies to implement the national family planning program, covering maternal and
child health. Under this program, some 20 million people, or 15 percent of the population,
benefited;
public ownership and private management. There are many examples of private schools
that are run under public ownership with private management In the PRC, for example,
private education has grown rapidly since the early 1 980s. As a result, the unitary
public school system broke down, challenging the whole public education system in
the PRC. Today, a mix of public and private funded and managed schools has emerged.
Commercial corporations are involved in the management of some public schools (a
trend particularly evident in the United States); and
* multi-level cooperation between Govemment agencies and NGOs The Philippines
promotes a national initiative called Literacy and Integrated Program for People



148      Chapter 6 Public-Pnvate Interface and Corporate Responsibilities
Empowerment Project (LIFE) that aims at increasing literacy rates in targeted poverty
areas through partnerships between national and local governments and NGOs. The
role of the national govemment and local agencies is to manage the leaming funds
provided through an ADB-assisted project The funds directly support the community-
based literacy activities, including the development and production of leaming materials.
The actual delivery of literacy services is done by the NGOs at the community level.
This initiative proved effective in helping 60,600 adults during the first year of operation
in 1998.
CONCLUSION
Forming partnerships between the public and private sectors will create synergies that
could help enhance the delivery of health and education services more efficiently, effectively,
and equitably Partnerships can mobilize additional resources and the respective strengths
of the vanous parties could be tapped for the benefit of all. Forming public-private partnerships
often means breaking down old institutional arrangements and opening up new possibilities
to collaborate with stakeholders with different and sometimes conflicting interests and
organizational structures For public-private partnerships in the social sectors to work well,
policymakers need to understand fully the differences between the players involved, the
benefits and costs that partnerships may create, and the objectives that such partnerships
are expected to achieve



P Dominguez: Promoting Busines for Poverty Reduction in the Philippines  149
PROMOTNG BUSINESS FOR POVERTY REDUCTION:
AN ExAMPLE FROM THE PHILIPPINES66
INTRODUCTION
Traditional approaches to poverty reduction relied largely on government agencies as
delivery mechanisms. Multilateral financial institutions providing official development
assistance (ODA) first used government agencies and later expanded to include NGOs as
sub-grantees of government agencies. Inclusion of private agencies (NGOs) in the process is
a major step. NGOs do well in focusing the delivery of services according to the real needs of
the people. Once proven successful in a selected area, NGOs frequently use what they have
learned to advocate positive policy changes. But this is not sufficient to stimulate good
social development The Asian financial crisis showed that the private corporate sector and
the NGOs should be involved in poverty reduction, for they can contribute efficiency to the
process and can help optimize results. By working with the private sector, scarce and
expensive ODA funds have the potential to be utilized through the most efficient means to
yield the best results.
This paper briefly discusses a successful private sector-led poverty reduction strategy
embodied in the Philippine Business for Social Progress (PBSP) organization.
THE PBSP APPROACH TO POVERTY ALLEVIATION
PBSP is a social development foundation organized in 1970 as a response of the private
corporate sector to the then worsening social and economic conditions in the Philippines
Each member company of PBSP allocates 1 percent of pretax profits for social development.
A portion of these funds is pooled for PBSP to manage and implement poverty alleviation
programs. Aside from establishing one of the very first nonprofit organizations in the country,
this group of private companies also brought business management principles and practices
to the task of poverty reduction From day one, staff of the foundation had to produce
coherent plans, provide measurement indicators, and maintain systems of accountability,
particularly on the financial side.
Enterprise development is a key to PBSPS approach to poverty alleviation. Social progress
in a developing country can only be accelerated if we are able to promote the growth and
development of small- and medium-scale enterprises. If people are able to generate surpluses
and attain self-reliance by means of some initial assistance from PBSP, then PBSPs work can
be extended to other areas in the country, or other groups that need help ("helping people
help themselves"). This assumes that the government provides an environment conducive
for the development of social programs, including adequate infrastructure facilities, a
supportive policy environment, and effective government managers in place at the local
levels.
PBSP concentrates on implementing focused and integrated grant-making and co-
financing programs in rural areas. It also ensures that other systems, like organizational
development, technology testing, and environmental sustainability are in place to support
the building or financing of enterprise groups. While this is a purely private sector initiative
consisting of PBSP and its partner NGOs and organizations, government agencies are also
adapting and replicating the structure. The Department of Agrarian Reform, the Department
"" This paper was written by Paul Dominguez Mr Dominguez is an entrepreneur and member of the Philippine
Business for Social Progress



150     Chapter 6: Public-Private Interface and Corporate Responsibilities
of Agriculture, and local government units are incorporating the PBSP approach Cntical to
this is the corps of professional staff that PBSP has developed over the years, many of whom
have joined the ranks of other NGOs, government agencies and donor institutions.
A more recent example in which the PBSP worked closely with private financial
intermediaries is the Small and Medium Enterprise Credit (SMEC) program. The program
provided a US$2 million loan fund from the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) to lend to small and medium entrepreneurs. Originally, the program
was to be administered by the Department of Finance, but PBSP was brought in to manage
the fund. PBSP worked with private development and rural banks outside Metro Manila to
service the financing needs of entrepreneurs. So far, the fund, lending at regular commercial
rates, has been rolled over five times and maintained a repayment rate of 99.9 percent pnor
to the financial crisis. PBSPs overhead cost for managing the program is less than 1 percent
of the total loan portfolio More important, it has demonstrated to the formal financial sector
that lending to SMEs can be done on a viable and sustainable basis. Given these results,
PBSP received an offer from the German Development Bank (KfW) to expand the program by
infusing additional cash of DM14 million in 1996 and another DM15 million in 1999.
As the SMEC program has demonstrated the viability of this approach in enterpnse
development and poverty alleviation, a similar approach could be tested in other areas
such as natural resource management or the delivery of health services. An important area
for further consideration is how to apply this market-based approach in areas that have
been traditionally left out by the market system, or those where peace and security remain
the primary issue.
CONCLUSION
In the context of socioeconomic cnsis, pnvate sector organizations such as PBSP are a
potentially effective tool in the battle to reduce poverty. They are capable of playing a
significant role in areas where government-led service provision is suboptimal. PBSP is an
example of a private-sector led approach to poverty reduction. It has effectively used
contnbutions from private sector companies to fund the development of new companies
and sustainable employment, and it has done so with high repayment rates and low
administration costs



K Djumamuratova: Impediments to Small Industry Development in Uzbekistan  151
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPEDIMENTS
TO SMALL INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT IN UZBEKISTAN67
INTRODUCTION
Since gaining independence in 1991, Uzbekistan has been working to establish a
democratic society. Under the leadership of President Islam Karimov, the country is
implementing a phased transition from a command economy to a socially oriented market
economy An important priority in this process is continued liberalization of the economy,
to be achieved in part by expanding private entrepreneurship through SMEs. Small- and
medium-sized businesses hold promise for economic development in that they contribute
to the formation of market infrastructure, help create a competitive business environment,
provide a significant source of tax revenues, and provide jobs. This paper briefly reviews the
state of SMEs in Uzbekistan and discusses key barriers to their development in the context
of the experiences of the Feruz-Khorzam joint stock company.
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES IN UZBEKISTAN
There are more than 160,000 small- and medium-sized businesses in Uzbekistan,
amounting to about 90 percent of all economic entities registered in the country, and
contributing about 13 percent of the country's GDR The Govemment of Uzbekistan has set
a goal to raise the share of GDP attributable to SMEs to 25 percent dunng the next two to
three years. This will require nearly doubling the number of small enterprises, and particularly
increasing the share of SMEs that are engaged in industry. Most companies are engaged in
trade, catering, and the manufacture of agricultural products, and the share of industrial
production generated from SMEs remains quite small-slightly more than 10 percent.
Over the last several years the govemment has helped to create conditions necessary
to encourage new business formation and develop SMEs. Access to credit resources has
been assured with more than 100 commercial banks having SME schemes. Various off-
budget funds promoting entrepreneurship have been established including the Business
Fund, the State Fund for Employment Promotion, and the Fund for the Dekhkan and Farmers'
Support The state is actively seeking the involvement of foreign investors and intemational
financial institutions in small and medium businesses. Tax privileges and State guarantees
for collateral have been offered to help attract private investors. Institutions such as ADB,
the World Bank, and the International Financial Corporation, have provided loans for SME
development.
But successful development of SMEs does not depend solely on credit availability.
Success strongly depends on the environment for SME development and the entrepreneurs'
capabilities to manage the transition successfully To provide training on how to run a business
under free market competition, the National Program for Staff Training was adopted in 1997.
In all regions of Uzbekistan business schools and professional colleges were set up to provide
graduates with the basic knowledge and skills required to run businesses. The capacity of
these educational institutions continues to increase.
The need to develop SMEs holds particular relevance for the rural areas of Uzbekistan,
where more than 65 percent of the country's population lives. The Government is
implementing a program of rural infrastructure development that relies critically on the
° This paper was written by Klara Djumamuratova Ms Djumamuratova is Chairperson of the Board of the Feruz-
Khorzam loint stock Company of Uzbeldstan, a medium-scale former state-owned textile enterprise near the Aral Sea



152     Chapter 6. Public-Private Interface and Corporate Responsibilities
formation of SMEs. In the early years of agricultural reform, farmers were given irrigated
lands to build up privatized small-scale farms (dekhan forms), with more than 650,000 ha of
fertile land under cultivation However, the rural regions face a new task. Agricultural
processing capacity must be increased and improved, if farming communities are to prosper
It is hoped that a network of SMEs will become the basis of agricultural processing, help
improve agricultural production and provide the region with employment Agricultural and
nonagricultural SMEs will help develop social infrastructure in the rural areas through services
they provide including construction, social facilities, transportation, and entertainment.
AN EXAMPLE: FERUZ-KHORZAM JOINT STOCK COMPANY
The Feruz-Khorzam enterprise has undergone a tremendous change that is quite typical for
many SMEs in Uzbekistan. The company has been engaged in textile processing and
manufacturing since Soviet times. After the collapse of the Soviet economic model the
managers of the firm could not break with the command mentality and were not able to
create new opportunities, forge new market relationships, or adopt new production
techniques. Economic transformation and the incompetence of the former management
resulted in near bankruptcy of the company in 1996. However, many employees of the
companies wanted to save the firm After the tumover as a joint stock-company, the staff
was significantly reduced from 60 engineering and technical workers to 20. This small group
contnbuted to almost daily analyses of the problems facing the firm, and helped make
collective decisions.
Most of the above mentioned financial programs are for bigger SMEs needing credits between
$100,000 to $5 million, whereas real SMEs need credit between $1,000 and $100,000. Interest
rates are high and collateral often not available. Many bankers are not willing or do not
know how to assess initiative and normal market risk. However, low-cost funds are essential
for the survival of SMEs, particularly in the initial stages of development In fact, the only
way for Feruz-Khorzam to break the cycle of debt payment was through a time bound
interest-free loan obtained from the Uzbeklegprom state association. To fully realize its
potential, the companyventured into cooperation with a foreign firm in 1998 after six months
of intensive search. The joint venture firm, known as Bisintrud-Khorazm, consists of four
partners: Pfaff-Singer from Germany, the State Employment Promotion Fund, a regional branch
of the Business Fund, and Feruz-Khorazm joint stock company.
Having reorganized the company, the firm in 1999 for the first time made a profit,
which was distributed to shareholders Today, new market potential is being explored with
a Som256 million ($1.4 million) project that will eventually increase output to Som300 million
($1.66 million) and create 140 new jobs. Starting in 2000 establishing profile shops and sites
in the rural areas is planned, where an additional 300 women can find employment.
THE ROLE OF WOMEN IN SME DEVELOPMENT
Women and SME development are closely linked, particularly in rural areas. Many
women live in rural regions and are anxious to participate in the new economy. These
women are a ready source of labor, and may well not have the impediments to adapting to
more flexible work conditions in that are seen among men brought up in the Soviet system
of highly protected workplaces. Women are therefore good partners for SMEs. The
Government, too, is paying significant attention to the issue of women's participation in the
economy President Karimov recently approved the 1999 State Investment Program, which
highlights the security and protection of women's social and economic rights. However,
female participation in the economy remains low (at standards for transition economies)
and more must be done to ensure that women are involved



K Djumamuratova: Impediments to Small Industiy Development in Uzbekistan  153
In the Bisintrud-Khorazm firm, most (90 percent) of the employees are women. The
problems of female labor supply and social protection for women are crucial. The company,
like many other women-dominated SMEs in Uzbekistan, is investing in training and basic
health care, in addition to the available state programs. In collaboration with the Uzbekistan
Business Womenes Association, a local NGO, a special program for female employees was
launched, teaching the principles of the new market economy and new technologies In
1998 four employees undertook a study of the costs of company management and labor
utilization methods among leading foreign light industry companies, and more than 50
women completed a course on business planning.
At the same time, the company set up a reformed comprehensive social protection
system for women as the old (Soviet) system had resulted in substantial negative labor
market effects and company losses. Under the Uzbekistan laws, social protection
contributions are mainly paid by the enterprise. Hence, social assistance such as maternity
leave is a major cost factor in companies where the majority of the employees are women.
As wages are low, women often prefer taking paid leave (such as maternity leave) rather
than working. To approach this problem, Bisintrud-Khorazm agreed with its labor-
shareholders on creative schemes such as li) awareness campaigns among the employees
on the economic impact of social leave for the company and the rural community as a
whole; (ii) engaging women doctors to better screen claimed maternity and other leave
applications; afid (iii) investing in women, children, and family-related social activities.
Together with the Uzbekistan Business Women's Association and the American nonprofit
organization Mercy Corps, a preventive health clinic for women employees was established.
The clinic provides free basic medical services including basic gynecological equipment
along with contraceptives and other drugs. Currently, the facility has a gynecologist, a dentist,
a physical therapist, several nurses, and gymnastics and tennis trainers.
CONCLUSION
Uzbekistan is gradually implementing market reforms and is working toward establishing
a strong social protection system for the most vulnerable in the population. SMEs have
great potential for improving the economy and their development requires above all provision
of credit ($1,000-$1 00,0001, educating employees for the new market economy, and reforming
the social protection system, which is currently perceived by many SMEs and potential
employees as an obstacle to employing more laborers, particularly women. Female
entrepreneurship is a fundamental factor in expanding Uzbekistan's economy. The example
of the Bisintrud-Khorazm joint stock company in Uzbekistan shows how women can help
combat economic impediments faced by SMEs by opening up credit facilities through joint
ventures and exports. Costs due to social leave can be reduced by investing in social services
for women, particularly family planning, child and health care, and education.



1 54    Chapter 6 Public-Private Interface and Corporate Responsibilities
SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT:
HOW    TO MAKE rr POSSIBLE68
INTRODUCTION
The Asian financial crisis resulted in a substantial increase in poverty and worsening of
social development in the region. However, this affected the social responsibility of
international business very little. justice and sustainability are not much spoken of on Wall
Street today. But they should be, for it is Wall Street, and its global counterparts, that are
fueling the economic engine of the world-corporations. The entrepreneurs on Wall Street
frequently forget that corporations are not the work of acts of God. They were created by
humans as an efficient means of providing ourselves with food, clothing, shelter, health
care, communication, and comforts.
Companies provide us with desired goods and services, but they do not exist in a
vacuum. They must therefore be encouraged to act in a manner that is socially and ethically
responsible to the various stakeholders they interact with. An effective means of such
encouragement is active shareholder participation. Socially responsible investment, by
creating information on stakeholders impact, has the potential to continually assist in this
encouragement. In the United States, the mutual fund is the primary instrument of the
socially responsible investment industry. The mutual funds that serve socially responsible
investors are committed to integrating into their products the following three processes:
screened investment, advocacy and education, and community development investments
MAKING SOCIAL INVESTMENTS POSSIBLE
Screened Investment
At Domini Social Investments our social screening process grew out of both essentially
faith-based standards and stakeholders impact analysis. We eliminate alcohol, tobacco,
gambling and weapons. Additionally, an early environmental movement led to the screening
out of nuclear power. But the exciting work begins as we evaluate each corporation in six
basic areas product safety and usefulness, employment practices, diversity initiatives,
community initiatives, non-US impact and the environment We collect and analyze data,
sort companies that seem to be above average in positive social impact and select a portfolio
that meets our requirements.
Advocacy and Education
The mutual funds serving socially responsible investors file and vote shareholder
resolutions, organize letter-writing campaigns, publish articles on our web site, and enter
into direct dialogue with the management of the companies in which we hold stock. Direct
dialogue is particularly useful as a way of dealing with a tough new emerging issue such as
the one we in the United States call the sweatshop issue. Whereas in the South African
debate corporations owned the factories in South Africa, today many corporations do not
own the factories in which their products are made. For example, Walt Disney World makes
a decision as to where to source their T-shirts based on the best price they can get. At least
historically, it has not viewed it as its role to care about the circumstances that made those
T-shirts available at that price Shareholder advocacy has advanced issues ranging from
sweatshops to the environment and even chief executive officer pay.
r This paper was written by Amy Domini Ms Domini is the chief Executive Officer of Domini Social Equity Fund, a
US-based Investment fund with a socially-onented portfolio



A Domint: Socially Responsible Investment  1 55
Community Development Investments
For certain segments of society, capitalism has not brought prosperity. Community
development investments have emerged as a means of addressing the needs of these
constituencies. These investments are generally in the form of loans to or deposits at
community-based financial institutions. Funds serving the responsible investor support
community development financial institutions. Community economic development has a
relatively concrete and immediate Impact. Low-income housing is built, a business providing
entry-level jobs and healthcare benefits is supported, a cooperatively owned endeavor
finances its expansion. Community development investments are particularly Interesting
as we move Into a more complex global environment
CONCLUSION
With the revenues of global corporations running at levels far in excess of those enjoyed
by most of the planet's nations, it has now become impossible to address issues of
environmental sustainability and basic human dignity unless corporations enthusiastically
endorse these goals. While corporate management teams may be made up of individuals
who are personally committed to a better tomorrow, the bifurcation of finance and society
has led to a belief on the part of management teams that they are going to be held
accountable only for generating high current earnings and that practically any cost for
these earnings is acceptable. Socially responsible investors will impact this dangerous
perception significantly. By becoming an important ownership base with a new message,
we will allow management teams to do what no doubt they would prefer to do: provide
solid returns within the standards of improving the future for all. The underlying goal of
socially responsible investors is to assist in the creation of a just and sustainable economic
system. While we do not argue that such a system is going to come about solely through the
efforts of investors, we feel it would be highly unlikely to come about without investors
taking a prominent and socially responsible role.






7          Good Governance for
Poverty Reduction in Asia
GOOD GOVERNANCE FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
AN INTRODUCTION69
Governance has been a theme woven through the entire Manila Social Forum. Time
and time again two related issues have emerged (i) how best to translate good ideas and
policies into action that genuinely helps people; and (ii) how to ensure that public resources
and public policy instruments are effectively and honestly used. Governance is essentially
about the exercise of political power to manage a nation's affairs, including its economic
and social resources. Quality of governance may thus be the single most important factor
determining the success of efforts to eliminate poverty and build the foundations for a pro-
poor, people-driven, and equitable future society. The discussion has highlighted how strong
leadership combined with an array of good technical action and support, and in partnership
with civil society, can promote efficient and pro-poor public policies and services.
The governance session in the Forum has focused on seven key topics:
* the links between quality of govemance and crisis impact, with some comment on the
challenges brought about by globalization;
* the importance of basic good governance, including strong public administration, legal
and judicial capacity, clear and fair incentive systems, transparent public finance, and
public accountability;
* the vital importance of information: the "sunshine principle" of opening up information
and debate;
* the crucial role of civil society and the changes that are transforming civil society roles
across Asia The Forum has highlighted the powerful potential offered by community
monitoring to link anti-corruption and anti-poverty efforts.
* the challenges and changes emerging around decentralization;
* the role that the media can and should play in promoting good govemance; and
* the responsibilities and issues for govemance involving international partners, both at
a global level and through the medium of specific development projects
lYacing significant links between economic performance (with accountability) and
openness of government, several speakers suggested (with echoed support) that, in general,
the crisis struck less harshly in countries where a strong institutional framework conducive
to development was in place.
Several speakers stressed that the efficiency and transparency of the institutions that
implement policies and programs, from top to bottom, are at least as important as broad
development policies and the level of resources provided. instead of focusing on optimal
9 This paper was written by Katherine Marshall Ms Marshall is the Director for Governance and Social Policy in the
East Asian Region of the world Bank. She was also instrumental In organizing the Manila Social Forum in loint
cooperation with the Asian Development Bank.



1 58    Chapter 7 Good Govermance for Poverty Reduction in Asia
government size, emphasis has tumed towards its quality and transparency: Governments,
whatever their form, work best when the policies they pursue are decided openly and
implemented uniformly, with active participation of individual citizens and civil society As
James D Wolfensohn, the President of the World Bank, observed: "Irrespective of political
systems, public decisions must be brought right out into the sunshine of public scrutiny.
Not simply to please the markets, but to build the broad social support without which even
the best-perceived economic strategies will ultimately fail
ACCOUNTABILITY
Good governance must, therefore, be grounded on clear accountability, transparency,
and the rule of law, including respect for human rights The Forum highlighted an array of
practical means to enhance accountability, the common themes being greater participation,
competition and decentralization. This in turn requires efforts at all levels to improve the
political, institutional, administrative, and technical capacity of the State Even more important
is an active effort to open the State to dialogue and participation with all stakeholders,
particularly civil society.
Increasing government accountability is well illustrated by the cases presented on
Mongolia's public sector reform and Thailand's growing focus on project monitoring
Promoting good governance is particularly daunting for countries in transition like Mongolia,
where addressing the govemance challenge means redefining the role of the State in general
and its approach to social sector development in particular. Mongolia has elected to design
its reform after the New Zealand model with the objectives of improving efficiency, and
ensunng more accountable, participatory, and equitable public management. Reforms begin
with a pilot first phase that focuses on key areas such as improving public finance and
revenue collection, enhancing strategic planning, and promoting decentralized administrative
reform In a second stage, governance and institutional reforms will be mainstreamed in
key economic and social sectors. Finally the new public management principles will be
extended, where possible, to all sectors. While the reforms are seen as beneficial in the long
term, concerns are nonetheless being voiced about their possible adverse social impact: in
the short run, primarily because of laid-off civil servants and the squeeze on social sector
subsidies.
TRANSPARENCY AND CORRUPTION
The second component of govemance highlighted in the discussions was transparency.
In many countries of the region, corruption (defined as the misuse of public power for private
gain) stands out as a major threat to better governance The challenge is to design institutions
and systems that cut down on both the incentive for, and the capability of, public officials to
engage in corrupt practices. The role and responsibilities of private actors the "bribers",
were also stressed Incentives can be addressed, inter alia, through merit-based promotion
and better pay, at one end, and tougher penalties-and likelihood that they will be applied-
at the other. Capability can be enhanced by constructing institutional checks, including
competition in provision of public services. The discussion observed that those countries in
the region with poor scores on the Corruption Perception Index by Transparency Intemational
were also hit hardest by the crisis Suggestions for further action included increasing pressure
on government and parliaments to strengthen their anti-corruption action, developing
effective coalitions around the anti-corruption issue, including closer professional relations
with anti-corruption institutions, engaging the media, and building anti-corruption issues
into education programs (from early years through civil service and business training).
Thailand's experience with project monitoring illustrates how both government
accountability and project transparency can be effectively and quite quickly enhanced (and



K Marshall Good Govemance for Povery Reduction  159
how the two are linked). Thailand is focusing sharply on stronger monitoring and evaluation
of both national and foreign funded programs and projects. To ensure maximum cost-
effectiveness and poverty impact, governments and international institutions need to work
together toward more probing and systematic monitoring systems. Setting appropriate, and
well publicized performance indicators, both at the macro and micro level, and disaggregating
the poverty definitions and goals for specified vulnerable groups, are important for successful
monitoring and ex-post evaluation, and also contribute to greater transparency.
PARTICIPATION AND DECENTRALIZATION
Participation is a key component of good governance and particularly accountability,
and here close involvement of local governments and civil society play a pivotal role. in the
Philippines, an aspect of governance reform highlighted in the discussion was increasing
the capacity of local governments to fight poverty. The programs of Naga City demonstrate
how indispensable the involvement of civil society is, and how and why anti-poverty policies
need to be tailored to local conditions. The need to strike a balance between responsibilities
at the national and the local level, at the same time that responsibility is pushed towards
poor communities themselves, emerged as a central and challenging lesson. Cooperation
among cities in the design and implementation of anti-poverty programs has also proved
mutually beneficial, with particular benefits from the better tailoring programs to local needs,
and concrete ways to make local govemment more responsive to local needs. Better local
benefits also build increased citizen support.
A further Philippines case shows how important the role of NGOs can be in demanding
greater social justice. Demands extend to asset reform (particularly for land and water
resources), increased participation (for example improved access to education and health
services, elimination of discrimination and greater inclusion of the poor in the decision-
making processes), and more effective protection of the rights, security, productivity and
livelihood of the vulnerable and poor.
ESTABLISHING FEEDBACK MECHANISMS THROUGH CML SOCIETY
The role of the media as an important part of civil society deserves special attention in
this context The media plays a well-established and critical role in holding govemments
accountable and ensuring the transparency of their actions. However, all too often (examples
were drawn pnmarily from the Philippines), the media is beset by problems of ownership,
including the corporate interests of media propnetors, and insufficient skills training for
journalists. While the media thus offers enormous potential for impact on the quality of
governance, there are gaps and risks, generally exacerbated by weak cooperation with
other segments of society, such as NGOs, the private sector, and citizens and communities
Finally, Indonesias experience in increasing the transparency of governance is yielding
some remarkable results, illustrating some of the ways through which civil society can be
effectively involved at the community level in social programs such as social safety net
programs. SAWARUNG, a civil society network was created in response to the lack of
transparency and access to information in govemment programs. Based on a bottom-up
approach, it created a two-way information channel at community level designed to identify
stakeholders within the community. This mechanism is working to monitor how effectively
funds are channeled, provide data to groups, obtain concrete results from local authorities
on project implementation, and encourage a dialogue with the authorities Printed media
(such as announcement posters and boards) as well as electronic media (radio broadcasting
and interactive sessions), and particularly community discussion have to date shown the
best results in motivating civil society to monitor govemment programs, and thus contribute
to greater transparency and accountability in governance.



1 60    Chapter 7: Good Governance for Poverty Reduction in Asia
GOVERNANCE AND ANTiCORRUPTION: A HOPEFUL REALISM70
In governance and anti-corruption work, realism is a must; pessimism may be prudent;
but fatalism is lethal.
Less than 50 years ago, a survey showed that the most corrupt place in Asia was
Singapore. Less than 30 years ago, that "honor" had shifted to Hong Kong. Less than 10
years ago, the Italian economy was in the "unbreakable" grip of a closed circle of political-
economic privilege and preferential resource allocation on a stupendous scale In all these
cases, the conventional wisdom maintained that malgovernance had such deep "cultural"
roots that only naive persons could think of improving it in their lifetime. A physicist, it is
said, once proved that the bumblebee could not possibly fly; bumblebees, however, dont
know that. Lee Kuan Yew, Chns Patten, Antonio di Pietro, although as aware as anyone of the
strong influence of culture and ingrained habits, did not accept the inevitability of official
theft and pnvate collusion. Supported by society's revulsion, their clear-headed and practical
actions revolutionized govemance processes in their countries.
Thus, Robert Putnam is utterly right in stressing the fundamental role of social capital
for good govemment and vibrant economic activity However, he is wrong in his fatalistic
conclusion that centuries are needed to build enough social capital to change behavior and
introduce effective accountability systems.
I submit therefore that the widespread popular anger at malgovernment and corruption
that observers of Asia nghtly sense today is a symptom of the most important achievement
of recent years, and the key prerequisite for effective change. Enabled by the fall of the
Berlin Wall 10 years ago, introduced by James Wolfensohn's removal of the taboo on use of
the "C" word in October 1996, and brought home with a vengeance by the financial storm
that hit Asia just nine months later-there has come the realization that corruption is not
only inefficient, contagious, and especially bad for the poor, but also that it is not inevitable.
just three years later, the shrugging acceptance of "immutable" realities, the respectability
of giving and taking illicit favors in exchange for misuse of official position, the "romantic
view of corruption" as grease for the machine-all of these perceptions are out or on their
way out in most countries. The door to real and concrete progress is open.
We can, however, only go through that door and help accomplish real change if we
approach these issues in full and open-eyed recognition of their complexity and long-term
nature. Governance and anti-corruption are too important to be treated cavalierly or
superficially, as "flavor of the month" allowed to become just another item on a statutory
checklist- "addressed" with a boilerplate paragraph in an official document and promptly
shelved And codes of fiscal transparency or civil service conduct or corporate governance
ethics, or international policy papers, or national integrity conferences, and even anti-bribery
treaties-as important as they undoubtedly are-constitute key necessary conditions, but
are hardly sufficient. Better govemance and reduced corruption will not happen by divine
benevolence, nor as a result of prayers, decisions, deliberations, strategies, and conferences.
They will require systematic, shoulder-to-the-wheel, sustained efforts, practical improvements
of public management processes on the ground, courage, and pressure, pressure, pressure-
pnmarily by the people themselves to hold their governments accountable.
7 This paper was wiitten by Salvatore Schiavo-Campo Mr Schiavo-Campo was the ADB Senior Advisor on Govemance
and Public Management, and currently occupies a similar position at the World Bank.



S Schiavo-Campo: Govemance and Anticorruption: A Hopeful Realism  161
But the people of developing countries, and especially the poor majorities, need the
aggressive support of external agencies Intemational financial institutions now fully accept
the need to stop playing the 'three monkeys" game; to line up unequivocally on the side of
the poor-which requires among other things strengthening transparency, accountability,
the rule of law, and effective participation; and to become a major part of the solution rather
than (as in Cold War days) part of the governance problems in developing countries. Now
we need to put our money (and our sweat) where our mouth is-in pursuit of the core
operational challenge to find country-specific ways in which the efforts and pressures of the
people themselves and the healthier elements of their governments can be supported
effectively and on a practical and sustained basis. This requires leadership; it requires firnness;
it requires stamina; it requires resources; it requires knowledgeable staff willing to listen to
those who understand country realities from the inside; and it requires a strong intemational
partnership of equals.
We should have no illusion: we are just at the starting gate. But the payoff in terms of
development impact of assistance and of the survival, dignity, and well-being of more than
one billion human beings is enormous.



1 62    Chapter 7. Good Govemance for Poverty Reduction in Asia
FIGHTING CORRUPTION TO HELP THE POOR71
When Transparency International (TI) was founded in 1993, its mission was to develop
effective coalitions to fight corruption in international business transactions. The Asian
financial cnsis clearly showed the linkages between bad corporate and state govemance
and poverty. Corruption is a crime that hurts the helpless, the disadvantaged, and the poor,
as benefits that should accrue to them go somewhere else. World Bank President James
Wolfensohn is absolutely right when he says that 'Corruption, by definition, is exclusive. it
promotes the interests of the few over the many We must fight it wherever we find it."
TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL FIGHTS CORRUPTION
Transparency International fights corruption, however grand or petty, realizing early on
that one could not fight corruption, especially at the local level, without the support of all
sections of society by working closely with the professions, NGOs, academia, religious groups,
and, wherever possible, government agencies Thus, it recognizes the importance of
developing and strengthening coalitions with institutions like the World Bank, ADB, OECD,
and individuals all over the world.
The concerns here about corruption are humanitanan, ethical and utilitarian, as
corruption widens the already yawning gap between the rich and the poor in many of our
countnes, destabilizing societies in social, economic, and political terms Consider also the
following totally negative effects of corruption.
* Decisions are not taken for public benefit, but for private interests
* High cost, complex and prestigious projects are favored over cost-efficient, community
based development projects
* A 'levy" ranging from 10-20 percent is added to public/aid funded "white elephants"
that are a burden on the whole society and worsen national debt.
* Human rights abuses flourish. As corruption levels increase, a govemment becomes
more secretive, less tolerant of dissent and is quick to resort to draconian laws to force
conformity. Social and economic justice and individual rights are threatened.
Tiransparency International produces an annual corruption perception index (CPI) that
measures the levels of corruption as perceived by the expatriate business community in the
countnes in which they conduct business, reflecting the demand side of corruption. A new
supply side index, called the Bribe Payers Index (BPI), was developed in 1999 to measure the
propensity to bribe by the world's 19 top exporting countnes.
CORRUPTION IN ASIA
Of the 99 countries surveyed in 1999, several East Asian countries fared as follows.
Indonesia 96th; Thailand 68th; Philippines 54th, Republic of Korea 501h; Malaysia 32nd, Japan
25'h, Hong Kong, China 1 5th; and Singapore 7th72 It was observed that countries that have
turned in consistently the worst scores in the CPI, such as Indonesia, Republic of Korea,
Philippines, and Thailand were those hardest hit by the Asian economic crisis that first
turned Thailand's economy upside down in July 1997
These countries had not thought it necessary to develop and put in place strong integrity
systems, incorporating universally accepted best practices. Khun Anand Panyarachun, twice
appointed prime minister of Thailand, made an interesting observation that it had to take a
financial crash to drive home the point that many of the Thai institutions were ill equipped
' This paper was wntten by Tunku Abdul Aziz Mr Aziz is the vice-Chairman of lYansparency Internatlional
For a complete list of countnes surveyed, visit the n website http //www transparency de



T Aziz Fighting Corruption to Help the Poor  163
to operate effectively in the global economy Thailand's integration into the world economy
was far from smooth. While Thais readily adopted Western-style capitalism, they continued
to retain their traditional system of patronage networks, a system built on connections to
allocate values and resources While he maintained that personal connections could be
innocent, he warned that when they became a factor in public affairs, they could be deadly
because patronage was not based on merit and tended to breed inefficiency and corruption.
He could have been speaking about the rest of Asia
Much of Asia was quite simply not ready to cope with the harsh reality of globalization,
and succumbed rapidly to the severe sanctions of the market place with terrible consequences
for their people. As always, it is the poor that drew the short straw. Without any social
welfare scheme to give comfort, the poor and the disadvantaged became early casualties in
an unequal struggle for nothing more than their rights to life's basic necessities.
The damage caused by corruption to national life is well documented by the World
Bank, ADB, and others. But many choose to bear silent witness. The responsibility to fight
corruption belongs to everyone. Society as a whole must play its part if corruption is to be
truly weeded out. Society must seek ways to empower itself through coalition building and
assert its rights to good governance.
CORRUPTION AND POVERTY
While corruption must be confronted at all levels, the priority should be to protect the
poor from being exploited, particularly by bureaucrats at local level. As a starting point,
Transparency Intemational offers several suggestions to create awareness, and draw attention
to the effects of corruption on the poor, and in the process, hopefully to contain them.
* Make representations to parliament, and remind political parties of their election
manifestos and promises about strengthening anti-corruption instruments and
mechanisms (as in India).
* Establish close professional relations with anti-corruption institutions (as in Malaysia,
Malawi, Tanzania, and Uganda).
* Support the development of codes of ethics for members of parliament and the business
community (as in the South Africa, Tanzania, and the United States).
* Work on education tools for children (as in Denmark).
* Write letters to newspapers on specific issues and generating public debate (as in
Malaysia and Tanzania)
* And if all else fails, go on a hunger strike (as in India)!
There are dozens more examples of what groups of people are doing, with varying
degrees of success, in many parts of the world, all with one aim in mind-to develop and
strengthen integrity systems in their countries that are capable of sustaining best practices
in governance, including increased government accountability.
Without public accountability and transparency, without integrity in national life, human
development cannot be genuinely achieved. In conclusion, the critical importance in the
fight against corruption is to help the poor and to contribute to the development of a national
integrity system that puts the interests of the many over those of the few Such a system
must embody universally accepted "best practices' consistent with the economic, social,
and moral needs of a caring society
The twin pillars that support such a society are, without question, transparency and
integrity, as without them, we cannot hope to bring about the balanced transformation in
people's lives, particularly the poor of this world.



1 64    Chapter 7. Good Govemance for Poverty Reduction in Asia
SOCIAL IMPACT OF GOVERNANCE REFORMS IN MONGOLIA73
INTRODUCTION
Poverty and Govemance are closely interrelated Reforms in good governance promote
efficient public services, thereby improving social development, creating an institutional
framework of accountability, transparency, and rule of law, and promoting economic growth
while fostering participatory and equitable governmental decision-making. These factors
will, over the long term, to reduce poverty and enhance social development.
Good governance, or sound development management, is the capacity of a government
to maintain an institutional environment appropnate for the public and private sectors to
function properly. The following five interlinked crosscutting elements are the key themes of
govemance reforms and its institutional building process: accountability, transparency,
decentralization, participation, and public-private interface According to the World Bank,
"accountability, at its simplest, means holding public officials responsible for their actions."
Accountability is the actual translation of public planning into its performance, using
mechanisms of monitoring and evaluation. It takes place at the macro, meso, and micro
level, in all the public spheres (i.e, budgeting finance, service delivery, and legal functioning).
TIransparency of govemment decision-making reduces the opportunity for corruption and
enhances predictability, thereby promoting fair and consistent implementation of public
policies. The right to information is an essential element of the participatory mechanism,
wherein people play a central role in the development process, being both the necessary
agents and ultimate beneficiaries. Decentralization is expected to lead to more participatory
and accountable systems; it is not only about the devolution of power to the people and its
representative agents as civil society, but also about a broad interface between public and
private agents.
MONGOLIA'S CURRENT SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHALLENGES
Since 1990, Mongolia has moved from a central-based economy to a market-led system,
and from a communist to a democratic regime This challenging transition saw the elimination
of subsidies and aid from the former Soviet Union while exposure to and pressure from
global trends increased. In this otherwise well managed transition, fiscal policy and budget
planning have been considered as crucial weaknesses of the system, placing the macro-
economic stabilization of the country in the late 1990s at risk Economic prospects remain
unsound, public debts are worsening, enterprise restructunng processes are still in their
initial phase, and unemployment and underemployment in informal sector activities are
rapidly increasing To ease the situation, a return to political stability, better use of foreign
assistance, and the positive gradual impact of increased fiscal discipline, including raising
revenues, is needed. Governance reforms in fiscal planning, institutionalization, and
monitonng the core of the agenda, are preconditions for the overall public management
reform. Since 1991, various govemments in Mongolia have maintained a strong commitment
towards macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms. The present government is
implementing an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility program, with assistance of the
IMF, aimed at bnnging the double crises of the banking sector and the public finances under
control.
Like other countries of the former Soviet Union, social development was impressive
prior to 1990 coverage of health, education, and social protection was universal with about
7 This paper was written by Davaadoriin Delgertsorgt Mr Delgertsorgt is the Head of the Policy Department of the
Cabinet Secretanat in Mongolia



D Delgertsorgt Social Impact of Govemance Reforms In Mongolia  165
40 percent of govemment expenditure devoted to social development. As a result, poverty
was relatively low (11 percent), absolute poverty was practically unknown, and social living
standards and human development indicators were high. With transition and privatization,
however, social expenditures (public and private) rapidly declined. Human development
worsened, and the incidence of poverty since 1995 remained high and static with increasing
depth.
During the initial transition years, when development aid and export eamings were
high, the Govemment maintained a strong involvement in the social sectors. Since 1997,
however, dunng the Asian and Russian economic crises, as well as intemal political turmoil,
the need for reforms and to reinforce the social protection system has become more pressing.
It is estimated that about 35 percent of the households are now below the poverty line with
increasing depths of poverty in the urban areas; the official unemployment rate is about 7
percent and rising. The Government is particularly challenged to generate new jobs whilst
labor retrenchment and civil service reforms deepen. At the same time, there is an urgent
need for rationalizing social and municipal services and improving social protection
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORMS
Governance reforms are expected to have strong and positive impact in the long run
on poverty reduction and social development. They aim to improve service delivery, enhance
transparency and relevance in social public expenditure allocation, increase wages and
income of civil servants, and enhance parUcipation in decision making on local and social
affairs
Mongolia's public sector reform process is pattemed after New Zealand's experience
(new public management with output based contract arrangements in the public sector),
with a gradual approach towards implementing the reforms. After the preparation phase
(1996-1998), the country will complete reforms over a 10-year period in three phases: (i)
initial reform as a pilot; (ii) implementation in key sectors; and (iii) reform mainstreaming.
The objectives for the "pilot" phase (1999-2002) are (i) to strengthen budgetary discipline
and strategic planning at the central Govemment level; and (ii) to gain practical experience
on the application of the envisaged administrative reforms at selected entity and local
government levels. in addition, specific measures will be taken to address the social impact
of the overall reforms and determine their benefits for growth, human development, and
poverty reduction.
in the second or "mainstreaming" phase, the emphasis will be on implementing
govemance reform within sectors best prepared for new administrative and institutional
systems. In addition, continued reforms will complement the performance-based budgeting
process at the macro level with a budgeting framework for the micro and meso levels,
enhancing coordination between the central and local level. The privatization of state-owned
enterprises started in the pilot phase will also continue.
In the third and final phase, governance reforms will be mainstreamed to include the
rest of the public sector, where applicable. For sectors where the reform is less appropriate,
only some elements of new public management will be introduced.
The scope of the overall reforms involves a new definition of responsibilities of the
various entities at the public-private and central-local level. The plan is designed "to be
implemented across three layers of public sector: Central Budgetary System, Local
Governments, and SOEs covering budgetary discipline and administrative aspects of these
layers



1 66    Chapter 7: Good Govemance for Poverty Reduction in Asia
EXPECTED BENEFITS FOR GOVERNANCE AND IMPACT ON POVERTY
Governance reforms are expected to promote human development and poverty
alleviation. The objectives of public reforms are to: (i) improve efficiency; (ii) develop an
institutional framework that enables accountable management and contracts as well as
stable environment; and (iii) promote a more participatory, socially committed, and equitable
government.
Benefits to the Social Sector
Budget and financial reforms will directly translate into rationalizing public expenditure
management and medium-term strategic budgetary planning. This will improve allocation
of public resources and efficacy of implementation, resulting in less costly and better targeted
dynamic social services provision Privatization and a new interface between public and
private services will translate into increased availability and quality of services, particularly,
in areas where the private sector is more efficient. The reform will build up a more sustainable
institutional framework where accountability, the rule of law, and predictability of the
decision-making process prevail. Anti-corruption policies will be strengthened and
mechanisms that promote integrity and empowerment of excluded and vulnerable groups
will be encouraged.
In this context, the role of decentralization is crucial although care must be exercised
in its application. By diversifying public responsibilities and capacities to the regional and
local areas, management of public services and offices are likely to gain from transparency
and responsiveness of government institutions, making development projects more
sustainable Without building up strong principles of equal participation, decentralization
does not ensure a more fair and accountable system, because there is always the question
of who is actually represented in the process and who participates.
The improved planning, administration, and monitonng of the public sector are also
expected to promote a more stable and investment-friendly environment, thereby enhancing
both economic growth and social development The reform process will, however, result in
short-term social and economic costs associated with the transition
Finally, the reforms are expected to foster a more participatory and equitable govemment
policy environment They are expected to help ensure increased access by vulnerable groups
of the population to critical public services including health, education, and social protection.
However, reforms involving reduction of expenditure and staff bureaucracy must be
accompanied by reforms to rationalize the system and increase its efficiency Otherwise
reform will only result in deteriorating support for the social services, reducing human
development and increasing poverty.
Benefits to the Economy
The reengineering of the Mongolian public sector is expected to lead to notable economic
growth. Management improvements in the public sector will contribute to better economic
performance Reducing the transaction costs of doing business will facilitate the flow of
investment, enhancing the use of capital. At the same time efficient infrastructure services
will lower production costs for firms. in addition, better delivery of social services increases
human capital. Based on experience of other countries, benefits are expected to be more
than sufficient to cover the required investments.
Benefits to Society
There are concerns about the possible negative effects of governance reforms on
unemployment, deteriorating labor relations and reduced short-term provision of social



D Delgertsorgt Social Impact of Govemance Reforms In Mongolia  167
services. Working conditions and labor relations can, however, be expected to improve with
institutional reforms, upgrading equipment and technology, and training courses. The shift
toward a more performance-based personnel management system should also help in the
long-term In order to prevent new patronage and paternalism in work relations, further
democratization of the decision process must be fostered, together with the development of
appropriate oversight agencies that can resolve employer-employee conflicts. In addition,
clarifying the obligations of accountability, establishing proper ownership of enterprises,
and emphasizing ethical conduct of public servants will instill in the public confidence in
the government and enhance a transparent, organized, and coherent implementation of
the reforms.
As noted before, governance reforms are expected to have substantial benefits for
public service delivery. One crucial aspect of governance reform in Mongolia is to implement
the reforms in each sector as the minimum institutional and budgeting requirements are
established in the pilot phase. Through this gradual process, the reforms should improve
the social status of the population and reduce poverty levels Table 18 provides more details
on the social impact of the reforms.
CONCLUSIONS
In Mongolia, output and performance oriented administrative and public finance reforms
will improve service delivery and rationalize public expenditures. improved public
expenditure management will contribute to better allocation of scarce funds to social
infrastructure and the economy. Social sectors will be .made more accountable for the
activities they engage in and the results they are expected to produce At the same time,
better decision-making and administration will improve the environment for economic
growth. These reforms will all help reduce poverty in the long-term.
However, the transformation of these potential benefits into real improvements is not
automatic. Ensuring real benefits will require focusing on the potential tradeoff between
efficiency and equity. With the introduction of user fees in health clinics, for example, public
health care becomes less costly overall; however, this does not guarantee that health care is
cheaper for the poorest families. Poor families could even be made worse off if price subsidies
or other provisions do not help them afford higher health fees. Without a firm commitment
to the goal of reducing poverty, there is no assurance that the benefits of the planned
reforms of public management will reach the most disadvantaged and vulnerable segments
of society This commitment exists in Mongolia.



168        Chapter 7 Good Govemance for Poverty Reduction in Asia
Table 17: Summary of Social Impact of Govenance Reforms in Mongola
Pilot Phase         Mainstaming In        Completion Phase        Overall Result (1999-
(1999-2002)         Sectors (2003-2006)   (2004-2009)             2009)
Labor market     Some addibonal staff  Negatve impact on   With growth and socio-  More flexible labor
required for selected  the labor market, but  economic restructunng,  arrangements, higher
pilot agencies      possibilibes for      new lobs and higher    wages and income,
Increasing income     income will be created  increased labor
opportunites for good  for the former public  productivity, improved
performing staff in the  servants However,   labor relabons, more
public and pnvate     unemployment will be at  inequity; need for social
sectors               a higher general level  protecUon of those who
and needs to be        cannot compete in the
cushioned through      new system
social safety nets
Services         Improved services   Improved quality,     Improvements in        Very positve improved
provision        delivery in the pilot  efficiency, and costs,  macroeconomic     social services with
agencies such as tax  of social services,  environment will       positve implications for
administrabon will  danger of less        provide means for      the quality of human
benefit everybody.  equitable access to   further poverty         development
services, need for    reduction, there is a
social protecton      need for social
mechanisms and        protecton mechanisms
affordable basic social  and affordable basic
insurance             social insurance
Social Public    Program loan        Improved social       More needs oriented,   More effectve use of
Expenditure      provides funds for  public expenditure    sustainable, transparent,  available resources for
building up a       management will       and forward-looking    central-local and pubbc-
sustainable social   provide more stabiity  budget allocatons,    pnvate executing and
protection and social  for investment and  partcularly for social  implementing agencies
insurance system for  current expenditure  development
mitgabng some       decisions
neganve impact
coming with the
second phase
Human           Improved specialized  Enhanced social      Improving human        Improving human and
Development      capacibes of pilot  services provision, but  development         social development
agencies and staff  initally with                                indicators
through tranirng     increasing inequality
Poverty          No impact           Increase In poverty   Growth, restructunng,  General reducton of
levels among some     improved social services  poverty and improved
groups                delivery, and enhanced  formal and informal
social protection will  social security
provide new dynamics
for poverty reduction
Paricipation and  Performance based  More transparency     More transparency and  Higher quality of life,
democranzaton   rewarding systems    and participaton In   participaton in        general contributon to
will increase job    employment and        employment and         further democratizabon
satsfaction         personnel policies    personnel policies.     of the country



I Robredo: Local Govemments Implementing Poverty Programs In the Philippines  169
LocAL GOVERNMENTS AND NATIONAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION
PROGRAMS IN THE PHILIPPINES74
Poverty stalks every city in the world including those in developed countnes. it only
differs in magnitude and intensity as one goes from one city to another. The task of alleviating
poverty is not the sole concern of the national government. Local governments share this
responsibility, probably more so as they are the ones in close contact with the people they
govern.
Under the Local Government Code of 1991 local govemments in the Philippines have
expanded powers and prerogatives to encourage economic growth and transform the
Philippine countryside. Under the Code, local govemments can share the task of governance
with civil society by entering into partnerships with NGOs and the private sector. Given
these powers and prerogatives, local governments are not limited to merely mainstreaming
and implementing national poverty alleviation programs but can also initiate their own.
Indeed, given the autonomy enjoyed by Philippine local governments, many cities do
undertake their own programs.
POVERTY IN NAGA CITY
Naga City, the biggest urban area in Southern Luzon, exerts a strong pull to the residents
of the towns and provinces around it, particularly to those who see no hope in further tilling
the soil in the face of low retums and high risks from farming. Early on, Naga was saddled by
a growing urban poor population and the attendant ills that go with growth. Squatter shanffes
and slums, beggars and vandals are thus nothing new to Naga. and the number of
unemployed is growing. The city's growth in the early 1990s exacerbated the problems,
fuelled by the opening of new areas for development and the entry of investors that
transformed the once moribund city into what it is today.
The city government decided to fight poverty by striking a partnership with civil society.
Operationalizing this principle are two key programs: (i) Naga Socialized Program for
Empowerment and Economic Development (Naga SPEED); and (ii) the Empowerment
Ordinance
* Naga SPEED. The program formalized channels through which neighborhoods and local
communities can participate in identifying development priorities on major policy issues
These channels are: (i) neighborhood-level consultations to identify problems and
priorities of a small area, (ii) sectoral level dialogues to identify issues specific to a
particular sector, (iii) city-wide referenda to find out the sentiments of the entire populace
on major policies or projects proposed by the city government; and (iv) field surveys to
generate a more impersonal and relatively objective appraisal of the performance and
expectations of the city government Naga SPEED resulted in a local govemment highly
responsive to the needs of its people, a people highly supportive of their local
government.
* Empowerment Ordinance The Empowerment Ordinance institutionalized the Naga City
People's Council INCPC), a non-partisan body composed of NGOs, people's organizations,
and other organized pnvate sector groups. NCPC was granted the sole prerogative of
determining the NGO representatives from among its members who will sit in the
different boards, councils, committees, task forces and other special bodies of the city
government These NGO representatives are authonzed to observe, vote, and participate
This paper was written by lesse M Robredo Mr Robredo has previously held posts as the chairman of the Bicoi
Regional Development Council, the President of the League of Cities of the Philippines, and the mayor of Naga City



170     Chapter 7 Good Govemance for Poverty Reduction In Asia
in the conceptualization and implementation of city government programs Another
provision of the ordinance calls for representation in the city legislature of the
nonagncultural labor, women and urban poor sectors of Naga These representatives
are elected by sector, and hold the same powers and responsibilities as other council
members. In essence, the Empowerment Ordinance decentralized political power and
shared it with civil society through NGOs and community leaders who participate in
the various aspects of local governance. Equally important, it safeguarded public
resources from being dissipated in politically attractive but developmentally irrelevant
prolects, as civil society, through its representatives within the very innards of the city
government, maintains a tight watch on its operations.
IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL SOCIAL REFORM AGENDA
Having forged a strong partnership with civil society, the Naga City government was
ready to mainstream and implement national poverty alleviation programs such as the
Social Reform Agenda (SRA) of then President Fidel Ramos, and the Lingap Para sa Mahihirap
(Care for the Poor) Program of President Joseph Estrada
The Philippines has had different poverty alleviation programs in the past but only the
Social Reform Agenda made an effort to inject coherence and focus into the programs. The
Agenda provided a comprehensive package of doable and high impact interventions targeted
at the disadvantaged sectors of Philippine society Most important, the target beneficianes
were included in policy formulation and program implementation at both national and
local level. SRA focused anti-poverty effort on the population sectors that were deemed the
most disadvantaged in Philippine society. These sectors included: farmers and landless
workers, small fishermen; urban poor, indigenous people and cultural minorities; workers in
the informal sector; women marginalized by poverty; students, children and youths; persons
with disabilities; the elderly; and victims of human caused and natural disasters To ensure
that limited public resources were not dissipated, SRA further focused the anti-poverty effort
of the different national agencies and local governments in specific areas (fittingly called
'convergence areas") within the key population sectors
The SRA then applied the Minimum Basic Needs (MBN) approach to identify the unmet
needs in each convergence area and to come up with the specific interventions necessary
to address these unmet needs. Over and above the area-specific MBN are additional sector-
specific flagship programs, which target unmet or undermet needs. Implementation of these
flagship programs is in turn orchestrated by a flagship champion who is the secretary of the
department catering to that sector. For example, the flagship program for the urban poor
was the Socialized Housing Program championed by the Chairman of the Housing and
Urban Development Council. For workers in the informal sector, the flagship program is the
Workers Welfare and Protection Program championed by the Secretary of Labor and
Employment.
Implementation of the SRA at the local level basically started with identifying the basic
sectors present in one's locality and forming a local social reform council with representation
from the basic sectors to carry out the program In the case of Naga City, four basic sectors
were identified, namely (i) farmers and landless workers, (ii) urban poor; (Iii) workers in the
informal sector; and (iv) disadvantaged groups (marginalized women, youths, persons with
disabilities and the elderly).
In formulating programs for each basic sector, the city social reform council discovered
that there were already locally initiated programs targeting each sector Three city government
programs best illustrate approaches tothe urban poor and the workers in the informal sector:
the Naga Koantabay sa Kauswagan (Partners in Development) Program and the Metro Naga
Development Program for the urban poor, and the Naga LEAPS for the workers and the
informal sector.



I Robredo: Local Govemments Implementing Poverty Programs in the Philippines  171
Naga Kaantabay sa Kauswagan (Partners in Development) Program
The Kaantabay so Kauswagan is a social amelioration program primarily designed to
empower squatters and slum dwellers, which comprise some 25 percent of the city population
residing in 21 urban villages of Naga City. The program focuses on a fixed menu of
interventions, developed creative approaches to facilitate homelot ownership, and forged a
tripartite approach that worked wonders in settling tenurlal issues
Since its inception, the program has disposed a total of 33 hectares of private and
Government-owned lands to a total of 2,017 urban poor families, 617 of them in 1994 alone,
which represent around half of the total urban poor population in the city In addition, it has
upgraded 27 urban poor communities hosting around 2,700 families and secured, as part of
its land banking strategy, a total of 25.4 hectares for future housing projects of the city
government
More important, it has: (i) institutionalized a functional tripartite mechanism for
permanently settling land tenure problems between landowners and land occupants; (ii)
raised living conditions of the urban poor through on site area upgrading projects for blighted
urban poor communities, (iii) established intra-city relocation sites for victims in extreme
cases involving eviction and demolition; and (iv) provided them with livelihood opportunity
by introducing a livelihood component to the program to cushion the impacts of urbanization.
Metro Naga Development Council
A proposed solution for attempting to shelter the large numbers of homeless squatters
is to increase opportunities for employment and improve the delivery of basic services in
the municipalities surrounding Naga City. This will reduce the incentive of residents of these
towns to migrate to Naga City, encourage those already living in Naga City to return to their
own municipalities, and make these municipalities altemate destinations for migrants coming
from outside these municipalities.
To carry out this task, Naga City initiated the formation of the Metro Naga Development
Council (MNDC), a partnership between the city and 14 surrounding municipalities to pursue
commonly beneficial programs and projects. The partnership was later expanded to include
national government agencies and NGOs operating in the Metro Naga area. Again, this was
made possible through the expanded powers and prerogatives of Philippine local
governments under the Local Govemment Code.
Guided by the principles of resource complementation and role definition, the MNDC
pools the efforts and resources of 15 local governments, the private sector and national
govemment agencies and focuses them on projects and activities that address the immediate
needs of the Metro Naga constituency. In the process, it lays the groundwork for a balanced
long-term growth of the area by operationalizing a scaled down integrated area development
framework capitalizing on strong urban-rural linkage between Naga and its neighboring
towns.
In pooling efforts and resources together, Metro Naga made the following possible: (i)
coordination of development plans among the 1 5 LGUs; (ii) rehabilitation of some 50 kms. of
farm-to-market roads; (iii) installation of some 500 Level I water systems; (iv) improvement
of health services delivery through medicine and equipment assistance to rural health units
and extended surgical, dental, and medical assistance to indigents through periodic medical
missions; (v) professionalized rescue and emergency service throughout Metro Naga; (vi)
extended socialized credit to rural households, (vii) matching of local lobseekers with local
and overseas employment; (viii) accessed development resources for member local
governments; and (ix) laid the direction for local government initiatives towards the
accelerated and balanced growth of the entire area. For Naga City, the most telling impact



172     Chapter 7. Good Govemance for Poverty Reduction in Asia
of the Metro Naga program is the unleashed economic potential of the area triggered by
private sector confidence in the once dormant municipalities
Naga Local Initiative for Economic Activities and Partnerships (Naga LEAPS)
Poverty alleviation, to be meaningful, must go beyond safety nets it must address the
fundamental causes that generate poverty in the first place. Local govemments can help set
up the local environment for new economic activities, which open up opportunities for
entrepreneurship and employment for the disadvantaged sectors.
Thus, Naga City launched its Naga Local Initiative for Economic Activities and
Partnerships in 1988. Naga LEAPS, as the program is better known, sought to create
opportunities for government-private sector partnerships in implementing local development
projects, and hamess their combined resources to uplift the quality of life of smal-, medium-,
and micro-scale entrepreneurs in the city The program, therefore, sought to institutionalize
an economic partnership between the city govemment and the local private sector that will
allow the joint implementation of local economic projects that increase the income
opportunities of disadvantaged sectors. It also institutionalized a process that would empower
the generally neglected and belittled small entrepreneur and workers in Nagas underground
economy and restore their dignity as members of the community.
Among its major accomplishments, the program established two privately funded
satellite markets at the citys periphery and the conversion of a kilometer-long area of idle
public land into a commercial strip, likewise using private funds. It also extended managed
socialized credit for income generating projects for disadvantaged groups The Program
benefited 35 percent of families in Naga City who depend on entrepreneurial activities as
their source of income, the majority of whom are small- and micro-scale entrepreneurs
(mostly sidewalk, ambulant, or transient vendors) who are largely ignored and oftentimes
looked down upon in their communities. It also extended credit to close to 2,000 micro
entrepreneurs, facilitated the employment of some 2,500 job-seekers over the last two years
alone, and assisted the establishment of 90 new cooperatives
LESSONS LEARNED
Naga City offers several lessons about the role of local governments in poverty alleviation
programs.
* The best way for local governments to tackle poverty is to share the task with civil
society. This means opening up the process of priority setting, decision-making and
resource allocation to representatives of civil society and making them as much
responsible as local government officials This ensures support for the programs
implemented and acceptance of the inevitable limitations of govemment.
* The effectiveness of national poverty alleviation programs rests not on how well they
have been crafted at national level, but how well local governments adapt and innovate
such programs to suit local conditions Yet local governments cannot be all things to all
people and need to focus. To respond effectively to the myriad demands of poverty
alleviation, they have to strike a synergy with national govemment agencies, with other
local govemments, with the private sector, and with the beneficiaries themselves.
* it is best for the national Government to limit its intervention to macroeconomic policies
and the transfer of additional resources to local governments, and to the extension of
specialized services by its national agencies. Local governments are better positioned
to come up with programs that directly address the poverty in their midst, once they
are given the needed autonomy and openness to civil society The poor are more than
ready to help themselves if only they are involved in the decision-making process.



H Sjatfudlan. 71ansparency of Govemment-Sponsored Poverty Projects In Indonesia  173
INCREASING TRANSPARENCY OF GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED
POVERTY PROJECTS IN INDONESIA THROUGH
COMMUNITY-BASED INFORMATION75
The development process in Indonesia was until very recently characterized by a
centralized and nonparticipatory approach. This has stunted Indonesia's ability to deal with
the economic crisis at hand, and has bred corruption in govemment-run poverty projects.
Indonesia's failure to create an accountable development process stemmed primarily from
the government's unwillingness to implement a "bottom up" process. Despite the new
government's good intentions, very few people's institutions exist to make information about
govemment programs more transparent, and establish a participatory and accountable
development process.
In theory, the sweeping political change in Indonesia today opens doors for greater
people's participation; however, this participation must be assessed in the light of how far
and how deep it extends. The community's participation in public affairs should not be
limited to the implementation process only, but should include an involvement in both the
planning and the oversight/monitoring stages. Furthermore, a good relationship between
the State and the community must be characterized by development planning from the
bottom up, along with the availability of a transparent and accountable bureaucracy.
CREATING TRANSPARENCY: A NEW POLITICAL CHALLENGE IN INDONESIA
The centralized development effort under the New Order Government gave the
community virtually no opportunity to conduct innovative grassroots movements. This
became clear dunng the economic crisis, when the community proved to be unprepared to
cope collectively with the social impact of the crisis. The central factor leading to the collapse
of a collective community initiative was the Government's unification program, which applied
to all community institutions at the regional and national levels Under this centralization,
institutions incompatible with Govemmental programs were not recognized-regardless of
solid grassroots support. The bureaucratic and military domination of the Government,
affecting all aspects of people's lives, left virtually no public forum wherein communities
could build their own institutions.
Information continues to be monopolized by the elite and middle class groups Ordinary
citizens have little opportunity to access accurate and immediate information on public
affairs, public policy, and related matters Moreover, the news they obtain has already been
distorted in the interests of the authorities. Corruption and misallocation of funds within the
development structure, as a consequence, are overlooked until they reach intolerable levels.
Policymakers themselves have inadequate information on the situation at grassroots
level. For example, the economic cnsis has spotlighted poverty as a critical issue; however,
the limited knowledge of the "higher ups" regarding poverty's structure and behavior has
deflected the programs and projects aimed at dealing with poverty from their stated target
groups. In addition, the inability of the Government to understand the people's interests and
capabilities has generated public policy that tends to ignore the opinions, willingness, and
dynamics of the general public Programs continue to be implemented with a disregard for
social opinion, a scarcity of civilian monitoring, and a lack of openness. As a result, corruption
remains a key problem of the country.
" This paper was written by Hetffah Slaifudian Ms Slaifudlan is the Chairwoman of SAWARUNG Network on Local
Govemance and the Executive Director of AKATIGA Center for Social Analysis In Indonesia.



1 74    Chapter 7. Good Govemance for Poverty Reduction in Asia
THE LACK OF TRANSPARENCY IN IMPLEMENTING THE INDONESIAN SOCIAL SAFETY NET
PROGRAM
Evaluation results of the 1998/1999 Indonesian Social Safety Net program highlight
how far there has been insufficient transparency of information Dissemination of information
was also very gender-biased, leaving women of lower economic standing unused to formal
channels of information with no access to information
To amend this for 1999/2000, an Information Center for the Social Safety Net program
has been formed (Pusat Informasi Janng Pengaman Sosial), to gather and distribute general
information, including reports about funds allocated to help the public and the press monitor
the programs To increase the accessibility of information, these reports are available on the
Web and in each district-level Planning Development Board (Bappeda DTII). In reality however,
the information on the Web and at Bappeda DTg1 cannot be accessed by most communities,
as the use of the Internet remains limited The information file for SSN must still be requested
directly from Bappeda. The creation of two-way information channels at community level,
currently being developed by SAWARUNG, would be an effective civil society response to
this situation.
SAWARUNG: MONITORING OF GOVERNMENTS SOCIAL PROGRAMS
Concern for information transparency has led to the establishment of SAWARUNG, a
civil society network that consists of NGOs, universities, professional associations, and mass
media SAWARUNG stands for Saresehan Warga Bandung (Saresehan means informal
discussion or meeting, Warga can generally be translated as "people," and Bandung is the
city wherein the group is based). The vision of SAWARUNG is to facilitate the formation of a
policy process that is both participatory and transparent In working toward this goal, a
strategic goal of SAWARUNG's is the creation of an equal two-way communication. The word
"equal" here stresses both the equality in position and condition of the communicants as
well as the balance in information exchange.
To increase transparency at community level, SAWARUNG will take the following steps:
* identify groups within the community who have a stake in the effective channeling of
social safety net funds and motivate them to actively monitor the actions of various
social safety net programs in or around their area;
* ensure that these groups receive and comprehend the project data that is supposed to
be available on the Web and in the Bappeda DTI1;
* assist in facilitating a fast response and concrete results from the local social safety net
administration after the monitoring reports are made public, and
* record all meetings as material for dialogue at the higher level, either regional or national,
serving as an input to modify and correct the overall system of SSN administration
The Creation of Two-Way Information Channels at the Community Level
The community-driven monitoring process requires comprehensive information
accessible by every side. The information channels must be open in both directions in order
to run an effective poverty alleviation program, wherein both the community and the project
administrators are equipped with accurate information. Information here exists not only as
data, but also as a means to empowerment
At the very least, the Government needs information on (i) the group structure and
dynamics of the poor who become the target and beneficianes of the project, including data
on their own enterprises, (ii) the local contexts where the projects will run, (iii) feedback from



H Slaltfudian liansparency of Govemment-Sponsored Poverty Projects In Indonesia  1 75
people with respect to the project design and its impacts, whether negative or positive; and
(iv) whether the project is actually reaching its targeted group
The general public also needs information concerning (i) the type and dimension of
projects to be carried out, including the project goal, amount of funds, usage of monies,
selection of beneficiaries, and planning and decision-making processes; (ii) how the public
can participate in the design, enactment, and monitoring of projects; (iii) how complaints
can be submitted if any diversion of funds or other problems are discovered; and (iv) any
other information conveyed by the community members themselves in democratic forums
Behind the development of two-way information channels lie several greater objectives
(i) to achieve more balanced information through facilitating both incoming and outgoing
information channels in public affairs; (ii) to push for societal participation in public affairs,
specifically to advocate for the creation of institutions of community control as a condition
for heightened government accountability; (In) to increase the bargaining power of the poor
in the running of public affairs; and (iv) to promote shared opinions through public discourse,
in order to be a medium for both thought and action.
Media Applicable to Community Level
Printed media comprises announcement posters and boards that contain information
on the current or the forthcoming development projects including the project details type
of program, aim, objective, time frame, fund resources, costs, and the names and addresses
of its facilitators being developed at municipality level. The information should be
continuously updated and easy to read Posters will be distributed at the neighborhood
association level while announcement boards will be displayed in public places. Of particular
importance is to place them in areas easily accessed by women. A community press is,
likewise, published at the administrative unit at the next-to-lowest level in the city. Organized
and run by local people, trained in investigative journalism, it functions as a channel to
accommodate the people's aspirations, complaints, and opinions
Radio broadcasting (especially govemment programs) has so far been oneway. However,
radio is changing its programming function to become more interactive. Moreover, it has
now moved closer to its audience-the community-by increasing its field-based coverage.
The plan is to work with nine local radio stations to host regular broadcast discussions at
the subdistrict (kecamatan) level Concurrently, government officials or project heads will be
invited to listen in, comment on the discussion, and answer the questions raised. Each
subdistrict will be involved in the broadcast discussion, and at the end of the cycle, the
progress of the originally discussed problem for each sub-district will be evaluated
The information, problems, complaints and other related issues raised at the broadcast
radio discussion or in the printed media, will be followed with face-to-face dialogue The
dialogue will provide a common meeting point for the community's representatives and the
involved government officials, contractors and consultants to hold discussion forums to
clarify issues and serve as an advocacy media for the community to voice its aspirations
and needs. Additional activities identified to support information at community level include:
(i) overseeing the Government's poverty projects through participatory monitoring; (ii)
improving the community's capability in conducting investigations, polling, participatory
research, and writing; and (iii) improving the effectiveness of local associations.



176      Chapter 7. Good Govemance for Poverty Reduction in Asia
WHAT CAN NGOs DO TO ENHANCE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
BENEFITING THE POOR IN THE PHILIPPINES76
Economic development benefiting the poor is another way of saying growth with equity,
which has been the goal of the Philippines Consultative Group for the past several years. In
1996, when Philippine NGOs were first invited to participate in the Philippine Consultative
Group Meeting, we said that economic development (should) be propelled and sustained
not only through the promotion of efficiency in the market place but, more important, through
the advancement of social equity in terms of asset reforms, the lust shanng of the benefits
of growth, and effective participation (of the poor) in the political and economic mainstream77.
PRECONDITIONS
Economic growth can be sustainable only if it is fundamentally driven by the productive
capacities of all sectors of society, who share evenly the fruits of their work. Without a real
redistnbution of wealth in the country, any investment in growth-enhancing human capital
and physical infrastructure will not be sustainable and future economic progress will be
slow Economic development thus puts equity reform at its center. During the implementation
of the Social Reform Agenda under the Ramos government (1992-1998), civil society put
forward a three-pronged reform debate for govemment on asset reform, participation, and
social safety nets.
* Asset Reform The distribution of resources would correct the inequitable distnbution
of resources in the country and provide the sustainable bases for uplifting the lives of
the poor and marginalized.
* Equal Representation and Participation The lack of channels for participation in decision-
making among the poor hinders the legislation and implementation of crucial reform
measures to uplift their lives. This component seeks to address the issue of political
equity. it has three aspects: (i) the provision of all required human capital services,
particularly basic education and health; (ii) the elimination of all forms of discrimination,
and (iii) representation of the poor and marginalized in all decision-making bodies with
specific mandates concerning their sector.
* Protection of the Secunty of Life, Person, and Livelihood and Fortifying the Rights, especially
of the Poor, against the Imposition of Violence: This is an essential requirement of equity
reform. Until economic and political equity is achieved, legal and policy safeguards
have to be put into place to protect their lives, homes, and livelihoods from violence.
ASSET REFORMS
Asset reform implementation continues to be the central challenge to sustainable rural
development in the Philippines Asset redistnbution often focuses on improving the land
tenure security of farmer-beneficiaries of agranan reform. However, it also includes civil
society efforts on aquatic reform to ensure the rights of access and control of small fishers
over water resources, and towards the full recognition of the rights of indigenous peoples
over their ancestral domains This involves People's Organizations (POs) and NGO partnerships
with government. However, where the political will is perceived to be weak and govemment
is felt to be conspinng with other vested interests to deprive the poor of their rights to these
70 This paper was written by Teresita Quintos Deles Ms Deles is the Executive Director of the Gaston Z Ortigas Peace
Institute in the Philippines
7 National Peace conference, "The Basic Sectors' Framework for Social Reforms," (lune 1994, and 1998).



T Deles: What Can NGOb Do lb Enhance Economic Development  177
assets, successful implementation of asset reforms means a greater advocacy role of civil
society. Advocacy spans from lobbying to non-violent forms of street action and even to
land (or other forms of asset) occupation.
The final test of asset reform is whether the assets distributed can bring improvement
in the quality of life and income of the rural people, as otherwise those with resources will
become even richer at the expense of the poor78. To make land use more productive, civil
society in the Philippines has provided (i) technical assistance/support; (ii) area development
planning; (iii) crop production/trading; (iv) promotion of sustainable agnculture, and (v)
development of financial systems for the POs.
Asset reforms are not successful without addressing also social reforms. POs/NGOs are
strongly involved in building up social infrastructure through social organizing. They organize
communities and link them to a national federation or network. At the same time, they
engage in partnerships with government and other sectors to implement sponsored programs.
There are many examples of civil society efforts in rural development along these lines such
as the Thpartite Partnership for Agrarian Reform and Rural Development (iPARRD) as one
of the more sustained partnerships for agrarian reform and rural development in the
Philippines. TiPARRD involved the participation of three parties: POs, NGOs, and government,
particularly the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR). The program was carried out from
1989 to May, 1998. It involved 63 agrarian reform communities In four provinces.
CONCLUSION
Asset reform, especially agrarian reform, is the oldest of the advocacy calls of social
movements. It is now 20 years since the World Conference on Agrarian Reform and Rural
Development (WCARRD) was organized by the UN-Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO)
in July 1979, in Rome. In October 1998, a group of agrarian reform advocates in Asia came
together in the Philippines to assess the situation. At the end of their conference, they issued
a statement expressing deep disappointment that over the past 20 years, little has been
achieved, especially on agrarian reform. For POs and NGOs in rural development, the present
time constitutes a difficult and perhaps increasingly perilous period. In the rush to achieve
economic globalization, it becomes the dangerous task of civil society to exact accountability
from government for the full implementation of the laws and policies that embody the
States commitment to social equity and redress for its poorest citizens.
7n Philippine Partnership for the Development of Human Resources in Rural Areas (PHILDHRRA), Land, People,
Productivity TRIPARRD Report 1994-1998 (Manila, 19991, p 21



1 78    Chapter 7 Good Govemance for Poverty Reduction in Asia
MONITORING FOREIGN AID: GOVERNANCE CHALLENGES
FOR POVERTY REDUCTION IN THAILAND79
INTRODUCTION
National Development Plans in countnes such as Thailand aim to increase national
income and reduce poverty. Projects and programs are undertaken to help accomplish this
goal, including public works programs, infrastructure projects, and micro-finance schemes.
Due to lack of resources in many developing countries, these projects are partially funded
from loans and grants from intemational lending organizations and institutions. In Asia,
typical external funding sources are ADB, the World Bank, and the Japanese Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund, among others Thailand, in particular, has received significant
external funding due to the economic crisis.
Dependence on foreign assistance for certain types of projects means that foreign-
funded projects should be cost-effective and have as large an impact as possible This paper
briefly reviews the role of project monitoring and evaluation in helping to ensure the value
of foreign projects. It argues that undertaking the monitoring and evaluation of projects is in
the interest not just of lenders but of the governments that borrow.
MONITORING AND EVALUATING PROJECTS
Monitoring and evaluation is typically encouraged or required by lenders of foreign
aid. It is less frequently initiated by national governments. But such analyses should be a
priority for national governments because they need to understand how foreign funds
contribute to government policies and programs, and because ultimately the country is
responsible for paying back the money and accumulated interest Monitonng and evaluation
is an increasing priority of the Thai Government
At the national govemment level, monitoring and evaluation activities can be categorized
both with regard to the source of assistance, and by overall program objectives. For example,
all projects funded by ADB were evaluated to determine which projects were succeeding
and which were failing, from a national perspective. Such evaluations can help the
government to decide the types of project for which donor support is useful and cost effective
Monitoring and evaluation is also conducted in relation to the achievement of policy
objectives, regardless of funding source. For example, all projects aimed at poverty eradication
were evaluated to help focus national poverty policy. No matter what their purpose,
evaluations are needed at the level of each project.
Project level monitoring and evaluation aims to monitor performance of each project
or program to judge whether it meets its objective and gives value for money. The process of
monitoring and evaluation occurs at each phase or stage of a project or program: project/
program planning, project implementation, and post-project assessment.
Project and Program Planning
Any potential project/program must be well studied and planned before implementation.
In Thailand, each year the State Auditor has to examine all projects funded by foreign loans
to assess whether the projects can successfully accomplish their goals. For instance, many
programs address poverty, and we ask whether a particular program benefits rural areas
where the poor are concentrated Are other projects targeted toward the same objective9
'9 This paper was wntten by Nonthapon Nimsomboon Mr Nimsomboon is the Auditor General of the Govemment of
Thailand



N. Nlmsomboon: Monitoring Foreign Aid  179
Have preparations been made to permit monitoring of the project at subsequent stages of
development? Has an adequate feasibility study been conducted during the design of the
project? A feasibility study is particularly important for projects funded by foreign loans
since the funds are interest-bearing and all costs must be incorporated into the prolect.
These questions must be answered before a project is judged to have the potential for
success.
The project plan should also reflect the need for management of the outputs of the
project This is particularly true of projects that have significant physical infrastructure
components. These projects require planning for management after completing the
construction to ensure that the intended population groups receive the benefits-water for
poor farmers, hospital access for rural women, etc.
Project Implementation
it is important to monitor the implementation of a project to determine whether it is
being conducted in an efficient manner and whether the target groups are being reached.
Are there problems that should be revised? For instance, the "Lunch and Milk" program in
Thailand funded by ADB was designed to provide a nutritious lunch to disadvantaged children
through Child Development Centers. Most of the disadvantaged children live in rural areas.
However, project monitoring determined that children in the towns consumed more milk
than children in rural areas The project distributed milk according to a uniform price, without
taking into account the fact that the price of milk was higher in rural areas. The children in
rural areas therefore received a smaller quantity of milk for a given amount of money The
evaluator recommended that more of the project budget should be allocated to rural regions.
With this and other small adjustments made possible through monitoring, the milk project
is now considered quite successful.
A second example of the value of project monitoring is a rural credit program from an
agricultural bank in Thailand. The actual lending was carried out by subsidiary branches
that considered only the ability of borrowers to repay the loans as the criteria for making
loans. The bank ended up providing cheap credit to wealthy farmers as a result The evaluator
recommended that the bank reconsider its lending policy for the program
Monitoring at the implementation stage is vitally important to ensure the smooth
functioning and success of a project. As a result of monitoring, projects are more likely to
serve the populations for which they were designed Further, project managers can use the
information in monitonng reports to make better implementation decisions
Project Evaluation
Evaluating a project's outcomes and process helps to determine the success or failure
of the project and provides lessons for future projects. All pilot projects should incorporate
such evaluations. Many pilot projects get financial and technical assistance from foreign
lending institutions that may apply inappropriate implementation models used in the past
in other countries For instance, a land reform pilot project in Thailand funded by ADB
applied the same implementation model as land reform project previously undertaken in
Taipei,China. The post project evaluation indicated that the pilot project was not successful.
Therefore, corrective action was taken to ensure that a more appropriate implementation
model was put into effect.
SELECTING PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
To determine whether a project has been successful, it is crucial to select and measure
appropriate performance indicators. Indicators must be selected both at the level of the



1 80    Chapter 7 Good Govemance for Poverty Reduction in Asia
national development plan (the macro level) and at the agency project level (micro level). A
simple example is provided by considering programs that address poverty.
Macro Level
A national poverty line must be established in order to gauge the relative success of
poverty alleviation programs at the national level. Projects/programs would be considered
successful at the macro level if a significant proportion of individuals or households were
raised above the poverty line as a result of the program. In Thailand the poverty line has
been established by the Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board
(NESDB) with funding from ADB. In 1998, the average poverty line was established at B911
per person per month.
Yet, even at the macro level, using changes in the proportion of poor relative to a single
poverty line can be a crude measure that does not capture regional effects of programs or
effects on special target groups. To measure the performance of government and donor-
financed projects of this nature, we need to disaggregate the poverty line by region or
group For example, while overall poverty may not have been reduced as a result of a
particular program, poverty in a sub-region where the program operated may have been
drastically reduced. It is therefore useful to select indicators that will be sensitive to a program's
impacts
Micro Level
Indicators of program success must also be selected at the individual project and activity
level Micro-level indicators can be defined by the nature of the project. For example, the
income earned should be used as the indicator for a project that aims at increasing the
income of a target group. An indicator for a health project designed to reduce malnutrition
of a target group should of course be the rate of malnutrition among that group.
CONCLUSIONS
Who should evaluate the performance of a project-the lender or the borrower7 Some
argue that each country should be responsible for monitoring its own budget. On the other
hand, especially when a project is funded by a grant or a loan, many contend that the
funding agency must also play a significant role Many international lending institutions
such as ADB already participate in the evaluation of their funded projects Nevertheless, it is
also important for borrowing countries to evaluate projects The recipient country should
give twice as much importance to monitonng and operations evaluation since the entire
country bears the burden of paying back the foreign loan and its interest. If a foreign-funded
project does not meet its objectives, the money must still be repaid to the lender.



M Mangahas: The Role of Media  1 81
REFLECTIONS ON THE ROLE OF THE MEDIA IN PROMOTING
TRANsPARENT AND PARTICIPATORY SocAL            DEVELOPMENT80
In 1986, a people-power revolt restored democracy in the Philippines and mass media
regained its spirit and spunk. Today however, Philippine media is also considered one of the
most corrupt in all Asia. Democracy's rebirth has not delivered us from the evils of bad
govemment, poverty, and corruption in civil society, including the media. Democracy does
not always ensure that the press will be fair, honest, and responsible as much as it is free.
Media ownership in the Philippines remains a strategic problem. Most media agencies
are owned and controlled by big business houses or families with allied or other corporate
and political interests, making the pursuit of journalism vulnerable. Quite often, professional
and ethical standards are breached. There is also a disconnect between the industry and
schools of journalism, which exacerbates the situation. journalism graduates are mostly ill
equipped to handle the basics of cultivating sources; conducting good interviews; fact-
checking; and tracking the paper trail, the legal trail, and the money trail behind stories
The Philippine media may be compromised by the corporate interests of media
proprietors, and tamished by the crooked ways of some journalists, but the case for media
promoting transparent and participatory social development is not entirely lost. A look at
the media does not yield an entirely bright picture, but there are, here and there, bright
spots and shining moments. Steeled in the tradition of the media as watchdog or attack
dog-some newspapers and broadcast public affairs programs have covered adequately
public-interest issues This has bolstered public faith in the media as a positive influence in
strengthening democratic institutions and processes, exposing corruption in the public and
private sectors, and promoting good government
In 1989, seven joumalists founded the Philippine Center for Investigative Joumalism, a
nonprofit, non-stock corporation with a modest goal: to help nurture a culture for investigative
reporting, which is what all reporting should be at its heart, with the hope that journalists
would help write the story of our success as a people A decade later, the Center for
investigative journalism has published more than 250 Investigative reports and books on a
variety of policy issues, such as governance, public accountability, environment, the
administration of justice, corruption in education, public health, women and children,
democratization and equity concerns, and exposing crooks and crooked deals with such
an output, one would expect to be a bit more confident about the country's future, and
more upbeat about the state of media and press freedom today. On the contrary, the Center
is even more wary because corruption persists, despite all the exposes
A colleague in the Center rues the loss of rage in our hearts to fight against the ills. It
seems that through it all, corruption and poverty run on parallel tracks all the time, registering
the same rate of progress, or retrogression. Apart from this, what appears problematic is the
gain in stature of media agencies, in the public's eyes, as the court of last resort, the final
source of rescue. The undeserved and perhaps unfair burden on the joumalist is to serve as
society's ultimate wamor, or democracy's avatar. Yet it is a load that joumalists must carry.
With increasing frequency this also has come to include citizens, the private sector, NGOs,
and even multilateral agencies. This view betrays the shared sense that social institutions
are so painfully inept and corrupt, that the rule of law and due process tends to fail more
than it succeeds.
B This paper was wntten by Malou Mangahas Ms. Mangahas is a member of the Board of Editors of the Philippine
Center for Investigative Journalism, Philippines



182     Chapter 7 Good Govemance for Poverty Reduchon in Asia
But journalists can only do so much. Exposes, censure, and even catching crooks could
never ever deliver justice, nor weed out the roots of corruption. Media alone can never
overhaul the political culture of personal friendship, personal gain and patronage that
engenders corruption. Even more important, the media cannot-or should not-even suggest
that it could supplant all social institutions. The media should not give the President and
executive officials, the courts, the legislature, even a hint of a chance to shirk their
responsibilities toward the people. Besides, as seen in the example of the Center for
Investigative journalism, exposes alone won't do the tnck. Sustained and solid follow through
by other civil society groups is imperative. As it is, exposing corruption has proved much
too unhealthy for the heart and soul of investigative loumalists. Exposes, without civil society's
follow through, leave the journalist in listless combat dnfting back and forth between
confidence and gloom, hope and despair.
It seems fair for the media to expect other stakeholders in civil society to claim their
rightful place in the task of promoting transparent and participatory social development
For one, nongovernment and civil society organizations must be conscnpted in the effort
Promoting accountability and transparency in governance is a steady though difficult route
to pushing the specific programs of NGOs, as well as to enhancing the standards and focus
of our politics, democracy, and development agenda The private sector and multilateral
agencies are equally important partners. Corruption must be addressed on the supply side
as much as on the demand side More kindred allies in the fight against corruption and
poverty are more than welcome as many actors and villains perpetuate the monster that is
corruption. There should be more vanguards-from the media, NGOs and civil society groups,
business and multilateral agencies-who must be tapped to slay it
Public funds lost to corrupt deals mean social services in shorter supply, narrower in
reach and depth. While corruption rears its ugly head, we must do with fewer public schools
and hospitals, fewer teachers and health workers could be hired, public works projects are
stalled to etemity, farm-to-market roads and bridges and all other social services remain
scant, in varying stages of disrepair, or altogether perpetually inadequate.
The time for talk is long over We must all work, to achieve transparent and participatory
development, and make freedom and democracy deliver the nght results for all our people



8          The Regional
Dimensions of Poverty
REGIONAL DIMENSIONS OF THE AsiAN CRIsis: AN OVERVIEW81
The Asian financial crisis has shown that global shocks can spread from any single
country over any number of other borders. Within a few days of 1997, a crisis in Thailand
spread to whole of Southeast Asia, just as in 1998 the Russian crisis affected Central Asia. No
longer is any wealthy country isolated from a neighboring poor one. When a neighbor
suddenly becomes impoverished, the immediate neighbor fears a similar fate. The Asian
crisis had a global impact. Tension usually builds up when one neighboring country gets
progressively richer than the other. (When both countries are equally affected by economic
shocks, there is no economic incentive for such tensions). Underdevelopment is often
concentrated on the boundaries of states, as these are very often the most remote and
poorest areas in a country. Hence, poverty has regional dimensions and cannot be solved in
a sustainable way by countries standing alone.
Many neighboring countries share common natural resources, which, if not jointly
managed, may result in disadvantages to the poor and the environment Across several
countries there may be natural comparative advantages that would be better exploited for
increasing economic welfare through cooperation on investment and trade and associated
harmonization of economic and regulatory policies. Forestry conflicts in the Greater Mekong
subregion (GMS) and water conflicts in Central Asia and the Aral Sea area are good examples.
In addition, there are global and natural problems of a non-economic nature such as
environment, health, HIV/AIDS, drug-trafficking, illegal logging and money laundering,
problems to which technical, informational, cost-benefit, and institutional solutions would
be best addressed if disaggregated into regional and subregional contexts.
However, global institutions and national governments are often not adequately
equipped to solve regional problems. There is a need for a more subregional and decentralized
approach towards poverty and socioeconomic development in Asia. Sustained, broad-based
regional cooperation may significantly reduce the probability of future conflicts It can
contribute to poverty reduction and equitable social development. Small less-developed
countries face significant supply and demand constraints. Regional cooperation can help
countries to realize potential gains in welfare. ADB, the regional Bank for Asians, has a
comparative advantage in facilitating regional cooperation and being an honest broker for
the interest of the people of Asia and the Pacific. Its interest in regional cooperation is not
confined to trade and investment alone.
ASIAN MIRACLE AND ASIAN CRISIS
Since the 1980s, consistently high rates of economic growth, in many Asian countries
equitable and socially responsible public administration, and strong attitudes of self-discipline
translated widespread poverty in East Asia into welfare for all, including the poor. The process
8 This paper was written by Shoji Nishimoto Mr Nishimoto is currently Director of the Strategy and Policy Department
(SPD) of the Aslan Development Bank As former Director of the Programs Department (East), Mr Nishimoto was the
champion for the Manila Social Forum The inputs of Sonya woo (world Bank) and Armin Bauer (ADB) in preparing
this paper are acknowledged



184     Chapter 8 The Regional Dimensions of Poverty
was accompanied by and rooted in a remarkable improvement in the health and education
indicators Between 1980 and 1996, poverty in East Asia was reduced from 60 percent to 20
percent.
The Asian miracle found its sudden end with the Asian financial crisis This crisis had
financial, political, and economic dimensions. The most severe impact is, however, the long
lasting social changes with substantially worsening conditions for inclusive development in
Asia, particularly in Southeast Asia Incomes of the urban middle class were falling, absolute
poverty and malnutrition in rural and urban areas rising, public services delivery worsening,
and pressure on women and social capital increasing.
In Central Asia, investments in social development, strong industrialization, and
substantial transfers to build up economic and social infrastructure allowed living standards
to approach those in Europe in regions that were barely inhabited before. Although there
are differences between Central and Southeast Asia, with a Soviet-style command economy
on the one side, and a market-based open-exchange economy in the other Asian region,
both regions share expenences in having followed a qualitative and equitable growth path
with poverty reduction and social policy as major features
Both regions also were able to maintain high socioeconomic development for a long
time by exchanging products, people, economic approaches, and even social attitudes with
their neighbors Japan's, Republic of Korea's, Malaysia's, Singapore's, and Taipei,China's wealth
are based on extensive trade with Europe and North America, and substantial regional
cooperation in Asia. Similarly, poverty reduction in PRC, Indonesia, and Thailand became
possible only when the countries opened to regional trade and allowed exchange of ideas,
people, and products. In Central Asia, high living standards were only possible to maintain
in the regional cooperation of the former Soviet Union.
In contrast to the European Community (EC) and the Northern Amencan Free Trade
Association (NAFTA), Asia does not have a powerful organization for regional trade and
socioeconomic cooperation However, with the Asian crisis the countries of Asia realize that
they need closer cooperation among themselves, and probably more independence in their
bilateral ties with countnes in Europe and Northern America Regional programs for capacity
building, to pursue sensitive development issues at transborder levels, to translate common
political commitments (for example towards good governance) into national action, and to
simply learn from each other are sought. Also, development assistance and trade and
investment relations are often in pursuit of more favorable terms in the world trade market
when strengthened by intensive trade among the Asian neighbors themselves.
REGIONAL INITIATIVES IN ASIA
A key lesson drawn from the crisis and its social impact, is that there is a shared need
for a new social agenda, including new approaches in the regional labor market issues
(such as overseas workers), regional health issues (such as HIV/AIDS and child vaccination
in the Greater Mekong area), trafficking of women in the GMS as a consequence of regional
transport development, and poverty induced seasonal migration.
At a regional level, issues of good governance and the rule of law, including the protection
of human rights are easier to discuss than before the crisis. Regional cooperation can also
help in promoting issues with transboundary implications (such as in the case of East Timor).
Regionalism can be helpful in exploring sensitive development issues, mobilizing national
political commitment, and translating them into action But regional perspectives should
always ensure that such best practices take into consideration the diversity of the region,
especially the need for a close tailoring to countries' needs and the participation of civil
society.



S Nishomoto Regional Dimension of Asian Crisis An Overview  185
The intemational donor community, including the World Bank, ADB, the UN system,
Japan Bank of International Cooperation, Australia, and the European Community, all have
made special efforts to organize effective support for Asia in the wake of the 1997 crisis.
Much financing and other assistance has focused at national level, but there have also been
efforts to take a regional approach, working through the major regional organizations and
on regional issues (like labor migration), which fall outside the institutional arena. Special
attention has gone almost from the outset to the social dimensions of the cnsis.
For example, ESCAP convened various high-level meetings to assess the regional social
development agenda. These were an Expert Group Meeting on the Agenda for Action on
Social Development in the ESCAP Region (May 1999) and a Senior Officials Meeting on the
Agenda for Action on Social Development in the ESCAP Region (November 1999). Major
efforts have gone to ensure a highly consultative and inclusive process, to bring in the
diffenng perspectives of governments, civil society, the private sector, and academics.
With the help of Australia and the US, ASEAN is developing an Action Plan on Social
Safety Nets. This initiative will (i) develop strategies to provide for sustainable employment
in labor intensive manufacturing and a market-based rural economy; (ii) disseminate
techniques for social monitoring in Asia; and (iII) analyze appropriate best practice options
for the design of social safety net programs. The regional program forges political commitment,
enhances harmonization of social protection issues that have clear transboundary context
or where there is a high degree of regional integration; and promotes the sharing of
experiences on common social development issues in Asia.
A good example is the work Australia has sponsored through APEC in highlighting
economic and financial management capacity-building needs in crisis-affected economies,
and more recently, a study undertaken on the impacts of the Asia Crisis on children. These
groundbreaking assessments might well not have proved possible, with the same level of
access, efficiency, and understanding outside the APEC context.
Europe's socially responsible market economy is often quoted as the root of its
development success. Europe offers lessons that could be made applicable to improve and
strengthen Asia's social development programs. In 1998, the ASEM (Asia Europe Meeting)
Trust Fund was established to help provide grant funds for short-term crisis-induced needs
in the region and serves as a tool for technical assistance and policy advice on regional
issues. The World Bank manages the ASEM Trust Fund. Ten European countries have made
total cash commitments of some EUR42 million In just over a year about 90 percent of the
funds has been committed, and more than 60 separate actions are underway, half of them
in the social sector. Examples of supported projects include a poverty monitoring system
and pilot projects for out-of-school youth in the Philippines, recommendations for health
sector reforms in the PRC, school programs for children in Indonesia, adjustments in the
labor code and with unemployment benefits in the Republic of Korea, a review of labor
market trends and policies in Malaysia, developing a poverty focused social security system
in Thailand, and an analysis of the impact of SOE reform on the labor market in Viet Nam.
The ASEM's Investment Promotion Action Plan (IPAP) and Trade Facilitation Action Plan (TFAP)
of the European Union also demonstrate how government, private sector, and civil society
have important roles to play
CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES OF REGIONAL COOPERATION: THE ROLE OF THE
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
ADB has active programs of assistance in more than two dozen developing member
countries in Asia and the Pacific. Complementary to this work with individual countries and
the private sector are the programs that cut across national boundaries and seek to encourage



186     Chapter 8 The Regional Dimensions of Poverty
regional cooperation for the benefit of all participants. The very first article of ADUBs Charter
states that 'The purpose of the Bank shall be to foster economic growth and cooperation".
In 1994, the Board of Directors approved the Bank's Regional Cooperation Policy. To do so,
ADB encourages trade and investment among countries, enhances development
opportunities, and helps resolve or mitigate cross-border problems, and foster the meeting
of common resources and policy needs.
Since the 1 990s, ADB has facilitated a number of programs for subregional cooperation,
such as the GMS program, the Central Asian regional cooperation initiative (since 1998), and
the BIMP-EAGA (Brunei-Darussalam-indonesia-Malaysia-Philippines East ASEAN Growth Area)
initiative ADB also promotes regional exchange through the ASEAN network and is
spearheading a unit monitonng socio-economic progress in the region and providing daily
information on the development in East Asia. The objectives of the Regional Monitoring Unit
(REMU) in ADB are to (i) monitor economic policies and financial architecture issues from a
regional and subregional perspective and disseminate the results to promote prudential
economic management; (ii) strengthen the capacity for economic monitoring at regional
and subregional levels through provision of technical assistance and advisory services; and
(iii) enhance ADB's relations with other intemational financial institutions, as well as regional
and subregional bodies, by providing monitoring inputs to various meetings and discussions.
The GMS program has been running since 1992 and comprises Cambodia, Lao PDR,
Myanmar, Thailand, Viet Nam, and the Yunnan Province of the PRC. The financial requirements
associated w\th subregional economic cooperation are clearly well beyond the capacity of
the six countnes, and also well beyond the capacity of ADB. Subregional transport and
telecommunications projects alone are estimated to require financing of about $9 billion-
$10 billion. So far, ADB has provided $366 million in loans for priority subregional projects in
transport, energy, environment, tourism, trade and investments, telecommunication, and
human resources development and social sectors. In addition, it had mobilized $230 million
of cofinancing and provided 24 technical assistance prolects with $21 million of resources
and $10 million from cofinanciers. Some of these technical assistance grants are for the
preparation of infrastructure projects and support of GMS meeting and forum/working group
activities. Others are to help address vanous nonphysical issues such as trafficking of women,
health and education needs of indigenous people, and a regional vaccination initiative.
In Central Asia, ADB is encouraging trade cooperation between Southem and Eastem
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous
Region of the PRC through a broad-based regional technical assistance project. The five
Governments are identifying and prioritizing development and infrastructure projects
particularly in the transport and energy sectors that will increase trade and other economic
cooperation among themselves and with neighboring trading partners.
Several subregional initiatives have paralleled the Bank's initiative on the GMS, such as
the ASEAN-Mekong Basin Cooperation initiative, the AEM-MITI (ASEAN Economic Ministers
- Japan Ministry of International Trade and Industry) Working Group on Cambodia, Lao PDR,
and Myanmar; the Mekong River Commission; the Forum for the Comprehensive Development
of Indochina; and subregional activities of the UNDP.
Economic cooperation is a long-term process. As indicated earlier, it takes many forms,
of which the GMS Program is one. Other forms are to be encouraged, including broadening
of ASEAN and membership in APEC and the WTO. GMS countnes are becoming increasingly
integrated into the global economy. To help strengthen their ability to meet world competition,
the GMS Program will need to move beyond preparing the base for sustained growth. An
important new dimension of the GMS Program is expected to be greater attention to



S Nishomoto. Regional Dimension of Asian Crisis An Ovenrew  187
intersectoral linkages Reflecting this, GMS countries have launched a study to formulate a
long-term framework for subregional cooperation and investment programming. Increasingly,
sector initiatives will need to contribute to multiple objectives. Transport corridors, for
example, should not only facilitate trade but also rural development and poverty reduction.
CONCLUSION
Although there is much the international community can offer in both economic and
social programs, discipline must be exercised in the process of formulating regional
approaches or mechanisms to address the crisis. The Asian crisis showed that people are
not always happy with what national governments do and that global organizations are not
always effective in addressing socioeconomic problems in Asia People are willing to corporate
beyond their borders to address subregional issues At the same time within a country,
more problem-specific decentralized approaches often have better chances to operationalize
social development in Asia. Concentrating on subregional and provincial levels, i e,
disaggregating them regionally so that regional efforts will produce the correct solution for
Asia while including externalities outside the region, seems to be emerging as new "Asian
solutions' to the Asian crisis.



188     Chapter 8. The Regional Dimensions of Poverty
CHALLENGES FOR THE DEVELOPED WORLD IN SUPPORTING
REGIONAL SocIAL DEVELOPMENT IN ASIA82
The Australian aid program has had long experience in undertaking development
cooperation at a regional level, especially with ASEAN, the Mekong Basin countries and the
South Pacific Australia's efforts to help affected countries overcome the economic and social
impacts of the Asia crisis have included strong regional components. It is on the basis of this
experience that we offer some modest insights into the opportunities that exist at regional
level to advance the 'new social agenda" in Asia.
Although we are discussing here primarily social development, we emphasize that, as
the experience of contagion in 1997 so dramatically illustrated, economic development
and reform concerns have perhaps even greater regional-level resonance than social issues.
THE ROLE OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY
There is much the intemational community can do to support social development at
regional level in Asia. But the key challenge is to be disciplined in utilizing regional approaches
only where they clearly add value. Donors and counterparts alike must look long and hard
at what can reasonably be achieved through regional cooperation. Delivering direct social
development programs regionally is especially problematic. One key international
organization noted in a mid-term review of a regional programs that it is difficult to determine
how social development programs at the regional level for disadvantaged and vulnerable
groups would add value to national and local programs.
Also, our aim should be to use regional mechanisms to build capacity for national
solutions, not to be prescriptive or provide blueprints. The donor community can be even
more predisposed towards prescriptive behavior when operating at a multicountry level. In
particular, donors must recognize that social issues, probably more than any others, require
country specific approaches that must be generated domestically.
REGIONAL MECHANISMS TO BUILD CAPACMES FOR NATIONAL SOLUTIONS
There is substantial scope for including regional approaches in strategies to address
policy and capacity building issues. We see three core areas where regional programs can
add the most value to these social development efforts: (i) forging political commitment; (ii)
promoting joint or harmonized approaches to issues that have clear transboundary context
or where there is a high degree of regional integration; and (iii) sharing experience and "best
practice" in addressing common social development issues.
At the political level, regionalism can be vital in helping to mobilize national political
commitment and in translating political commitments into action The ASEAN Hanoi Plan of
Action, and the cooperation programs it has motivated, are excellent examples of how
regional and intemational efforts can be harnessed to help achieve consensus at the highest
political levels and take action on the basis of these priorities The Hanoi Plan of Action may
well be seen by history as a private manifesto of recovery-specifically because it represents
the collective crisis-response commitments of Southeast Asia
We do, however, need to be realistic about how far regionalism can be taken in the
political context. Few regional structures are strong enough to adopt a rule or enforcement-
"' This paper was wntten by Robert McKinnon Mr McKinnon was the Director for Asia Regional Programs of the
Australian Agency for intemational Development based in Australia



R Mc Kinnon: Challenges for the Developed World  189
based approach and often the underlying policy coherence among nations is limited. But, in
our experience, once a collective position is reached it provides a powerful basis for demand-
driven action.
Regional structures can also be utilized to pursue sensitive development issues within
a framework regional economies are comfortable with. A case in point is the work Australia
has sponsored through APEC in highlighting economic and financial management capacity-
building needs in crisis-affected economies and our recent study on the impacts of the Asia
crisis on children. These ground-breaking assessments could probably not have been
undertaken with the same level of access, efficiency, and frankness outside the APEC context-
and the results were presented directly to leaders
Areas where there is strong regional integration also obviously lend themselves to
regional approaches-as do issues that are genuinely transboundary in nature. The growing
level of economic and social integration in East Asia is salient In particular, the increasingly-
though unofficially-open labor market in the region, combined with the importance of
repatriated incomes, means that social developments and labor-migration policies in one
country have quickly transmitted implications for others Also, many social development
issues have transboundary impacts Disease control, resource use and environment, as well
as agricultural pest and disease issues are just a few examples. These are areas where
regional responses are an essential component of any development strategy.
An example of innovative regional cooperation to address transboundary issues is the
recently-commenced, UNDP-coordinated program to reduce trafficking in women and
children in the Mekong Basin. This program draws together a wide range of UN, government,
private and community organizations to undertake a comprehensive and integrated effort
against trafficking.
The final but probably most complex area where regional approaches can be important
is in sharing experience and "best practice" in addressing common social development
issues. Unfortunately, the further removed one's point of view, the more "common" social
development issues appear. Nonetheless, there appear to be many genuinely shared aspects
of the social challenges facing East Asia. Our goal in working together in these areas should
be to utilize regional approaches where they are genuinely most efficient-not merely because
they may seem more convenient than national or local level cooperation. The areas that
lend themselves most readily to regional approaches include awareness raising, sharing
information and experience, and developing and sharing good practices in policy
development and program implementation.
AUSTRALIA'S ROLE IN REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT IN ASIA
To address some of these complex issues Australia has recently introduced a $5 million
capacity building facility to help strengthen social protection capabilities in the region. As
one of the first initiatives under this facility, we are exploring options for developing joint
training programs for practitioners in social monitoring, program design, implementation
and management. Our aim is to deliver programs in-country, in local languages, We are also
currently designing two important cooperative activities with ASEAN to implement the ASEAN
Action Plan on Social Safety Nets. These activities will involve joint development and
dissemination of techniques for social monitoring and analysis and identification of
appropriate best practice options for design of social safety net programs. These activities
have great potential to turn some of our social policy aspirations into something meaningful
in practice-and something clearly owned by our ASEAN counterparts.



190     Chapter 8: The Regional Dimensions of Poverty
A FINAL OBSERVATION
To conclude, it is as important to maintain a balance in pursuing regional approaches
as it is with bilateral approaches We should be clear that the very best thing the developed
world can do for regional economic and social development in Asia is to promote a return
to vigorous growth It has to be pro poor, it has to be more sustainable, but what we hear
loudest from our regional counterparts is that restoring strong growth is their highest pnority
We are also currently designing two important cooperative activities with ASEAN to
implement the ASEAN Action Plan on Social Safety Nets. These activities will involve joint
development and dissemination of techniques for social monitonng and analysis and
identification of appropriate best practice options for design of social safety net programs
These activities have great potential to turn some of our social policy aspirations into
something meaningful in practice-and something clearly owned by our ASEAN counterparts
In this respect, perhaps the greatest challenge for the international community in its
regional cooperation is to resist the temptation to propose blueprints The output of our
cooperation should be, in effect, tool boxes and the capacities to use these tools Regional
efforts, especially, will only be effective and sustainable if they seek to build local capabilities
This is as true for our efforts to advance the social agenda in Asia as it is for any other
agenda



A MacDonald- Europe, The Asian Economic Crisis & The ASEM fTust Fund  191
EUROPE, THE AsIAN ECONOAIIC CRISIS,
AND THE ASEM TRUST FUND83
INTRODUCTION
This paper will discuss the role that the EU has played, and will continue to play, in
addressing Asia's economic cnsis, including in particular the work being carried out through
the ASEM Thust Fund It will also highlight some broader lessons that might be taken from
the cnsis itself, and from the international response to the crisis.
EUROPEAN RESPONSE TO THE ASIAN CRISIS
Europe was as surprised as everyone else when a balance-of-payments crisis in one
country rapidly became a generalized recession sweeping the region as a whole. The financial
crisis affected the livelihoods of hundreds of millions of people, put basic government services
at risk, and led to sweeping political changes in several countries. In responding to the
cnsis, it was important that we not overlook the fundamentals of Asia's economic growth
and economic potential, nor ignore Asia's resilience and capacity for reform and recovery.
This resilience has been amply demonstrated in the past year. But renewed growth is only
one part of the story A major lesson to be drawn from the crisis, and its devastating social
impact, is the need to focus on the socioeconomic issues as much as the macroeconomic,
and to be attentive to the broad issues of political economy, in the classical sense.
Europe's direct response to the crisis consisted of three key strands- aid, trade, and
policy dialogue. On the aid side, Europe played its full part in the three major rescue packages
put together by the international financial institutions. Taking together the direct contributions
made by certain European countries to the package in the Republic of Korea, and the indirect
contributions made through the international financial institutions, the EU as a whole
accounted for some 19 percent of the total funding provided in these three packages (some
$118 billion). This was a little less than Japan (20 percent), and a little more than the US (1 6
percent). In addition, Europe continued and intensified its normal ODA flows to the region.
However, it very quickly became clear that any conceivable level of bilateral aid funding
would be insufficient to address the magnitude of the social problems facing the crisis-
affected countries. Substantial and continuing reform efforts were essential to attack the
immediate causes of the crisis, while in the medium-tenn the key factor in recovery would
be the level of aggregate demand in this medium-term perspective, what was most needed
was a demand stimulus, coupled with increasing trade and investment flows in order to
stimulate this demand and help rebuild employment. In particular it would be imperative
for the EU and other global trading partners to ensure that their markets were kept open for
Asian exports, allowing the substantial change in trade flows that would be essential for
Asia to recover from the crisis.
Besides aid and trade, the third element was the question of policy dialogue, recognizing
that the cnsis was not an "Asian" problem, unique or unprecedented Rather it was a problem
facing all industrialized and industrializing countries. Therefore It was essential to build a
wide-ranging dialogue between Asia and Europe, touching on all relevant aspects of financial,
S This paper was written by Alistair MacDonald Mr MacDonald is the Deputy Head of Asia Unit (Honzontal Matters),
of the Directorate General for Extemal Relations of the European Commission in Brussels The views and
interpretatlons In this paper are the personal views of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of the
European Commission



192       Chapter 8 The Regional Dimensions of Poverty
economic, and social policy. Sharing ideas and expenences, taking account of policies that
had worked, and policies that had not worked, would in itself be an important contribution.
THE ASEM SUMMIT INiTIATIVES
The ASEM Summit meeting in London in April 1998 allowed a thorough discussion of
the crisis and agreed on two new initiatives relating to the crisis. One was the agreement
among our heads of govemment on an ASEM trade and investment pledge, expressing their
common resolve to resist any protectionist pressures and at least maintain the current level
of market access while pursuing further multilateral liberalization.
This trade pledge has certainly been kept. The EU's trade balance with the five most-
affected countries in 199884 fell by EUR24 billion, reflecting a decline in our exports to these
countries (a 40 percent fall in our case, 27 percent for the US, and 20 percent for Japan),
coupled with a rise in our imports from Asia (14 percent for the EU, 11 percent for the US,
and 4 percent for Japan)85. So Europe has clearly played a key role in helping maintain
aggregate demand In addition, it was essential that investment flows be maintained to
help protect the long-term growth potential of the countries concerned, and EU foreign
direct investment in Asia increased 13 percent in 1998.86
The second initiative was the establishment of an ASEM Trust Fund at the World Bank
to help provide the technical assistance required to address the immediate policy issues
arising from the crisis, both in terms of financial and corporate sector reform, and in ternms
of social policy and social impact issues. The Fund was not viewed as an injection of capital,
but as the provision of expertise, and was deliberately limited to a two-year penod Ten
ASEM partners have made cash commitments to the TIrust Fund, totaling some EUR42 million.
The EC itself has provided EUR1 5 million, with additional contributions from eight EU Member
States, and from PRC. In a little over a year about 90 percent of the funds have been committed,
and more than 60 separate actions have already commenced, half of them in the social
sector.
Examples of these efforts include:
* in the Philippines, action to enhance poverty monitoring systems, carried out by NEDA,
as well as a substantial pilot project for out-of-school youth, in collaboration with DSWD
and a number of foundations;
* in the PRC, recommendations for strengthening health sector reform;
* in Indonesia, support for the preparation of a major program to help keep children in
school;
* in the Republic of Korea, an evaluation of labor adjustment provisions, including possible
extension of unemployment benefits;
* in Malaysia, a review of labor market trends and policies;
8 The decline in the European Union trade balance with Asia accounted for almost the entirety of the decline in our
global trade surplus from EUR49 billion to EUR20 billion in that year
8 All trade figures are from Eurostat, and relate to EU trade with the five "most-affected' countnes-Indonesia, Re-
public of Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand
Investment figures, also from Eurostat, refer to European Union foreign direct investment in ASEAN plus PRC, lapan
and Republic of Korea There was however a considerable vanation among countries, e g a 750 percent increase
in Malaysia, 270 percent in Republic of Korea, and 140 percent in Philippines, against an 11 percent decline in
Thailand, 44 percent in PRC, and 58 percent in Indonesia



A MacDonald: Europe, The Asian Economic Crisis & The ASEM RTust Fund  193
* in Thailand, a review of the social security system generally, with a particular emphasis
on poverty alleviation;
* in Viet Nam, an analysis of the impact of SOE reform on the labor market; and
* at the regional level, a major analysis and exchange of experiences in relation to long-
term social policy challenges and options.
Full information on the various types of actions is available on the fTrust Fund web site.
The World Bank is also placing a considerable emphasis now on drawing together the
conclusions arising from these activities, and on sharing this with govemment and non-
government partners across the region. The work being carried out by the ASEM Trust Fund
exemplifies the kind of rapid response and sharing of experience that is so necessary. It
draws on the wide range of skills available across Asia. It draws also on the experience of
Europe, experience which has often been gained expensively, leaming from our own mistakes.
And it seeks to share this experience across Asia
CONCLUSION
There are three broad lessons that can be drawn from the experience of the last two
years.
First, economic growth on its own is no substitute for an appropriate social policy.
Growth without equity, growth without attention to distribution, growth without a certain
minimum of social security in the broadest sense, is not sustainable. Export demand is
essential, but domestic demand, arising from a broad-based mass market, is also crucial.
The equity aspect of social policy is therefore not just a social question, but a fundamental
prerequisite for sustained growth in the long term.
Second, social policy has to be appropriate for the conditions of the country concerned-
there is no easy "cut and paste" solution. But at the same time, the commonality of the
challenges makes it imperative to share and learn from this experience. The very diversity of
Europe's experience and the different models tried over the years around the central theme
of a socially responsible market economy, make our successes and failures particularly
relevant for Asia. And it will be interesting also to take account of Europe's historical
expenence, looking at how some of the same problems have been addressed during Europe's
own period of rapid industrialization.
Third, it is imperative that all sectors of society should play their full part in addressing
these social policy issues. Govemment on its own cannot provide a solution, just as the
market economy on its own is not perfect. Government (both national and local), civil society,
the business sector, and the political process generally, all have an essential role to play in
this process. If one outcome of the crisis has been to promote a stronger dialogue,
transparency and participation in relation to economic and social policy, then its impact
will not have been entirely negative.



194     Chapter 8 The Regional Dimensions of Poverty
JiAPAN's NEW ROLE FOR
REGIONAL SocIAL DEVELOPMENT IN AsIA87
LISTENING TO THE REGION
The variation in social and economic conditions within the Asian region is wide. On the
high side, income levels approach those of developed economies, while others are still
categorized as lower income countries While education levels are relatively high throughout
the region, the stages of development differ enormously. We observe a wide vanety of
development experiences, reflected in the present conditions of each country.
To meet the development requirements of each region, we need to have adequate
knowledge, experience, resources, funding and time. But there is another factor that is even
more important That is information. Accurate information is a key condition for the
formulation of successful policies and development strategies. For example, the appropriate
policies related to gender might vary depending on the influence of religion. Similarly,
generating employment in one region will be different from that in another because industnal
structures are almost always different.
We have spent much time searching for development wisdom, and we now have a
fairly good, though imperfect, understanding of development. We accept readily that there
are issues that we may not be able to solve. However, there is a need to emphasize that for
every development situation there is always an appropriate policy Where we often fail is in
selecting the most suitable policies for each situation. The reasons for such failure might be
various, from political games to bureaucratic delays. But in reality, people will generally
agree to the best policies if they are provided with accurate information together with good
analysis. Particularly when it comes to social problems, each situation is unique and we
need to consider each on its ments based upon the best information available. With more
accurate information, the likelihood of success in selecting appropriate policies is increased.
People may assume that information is free of charge, but it is not true. Once the
information is obtained, it can be shared with minimal additional cost, but obtaining
information in the first place entails costs The most efficient way to collect information is to
listen to the people, listen to the region We should not consider that listening to the region
is a cumbersome or unnecessary procedure. We should devote more resources to collecting
basic information than to analyzing the situation.
THE NEED FOR A BALANCED APPROACH
The time factor is often ignored or paid very little attention to in development economics.
The market mechanism is supposed to adjust all economic factors instantly and the benefits
of economic growth are supposed to be enjoyed by all members of the community at the
same time. Of course, this is far from the reality
During the 1960s in Japan, the government presented a 10-year plan for economic
growth, allocating a large share of resources for productive purposes, while putting little
focus on social safety nets. Luckily enough, this strategy was successful, and Japan achieved
rapid economic growth, which improved income levels and reduced poverty on a large
scale.
87 This paper was written by lunichl Hasegawa Mr Hasegawa is the Deputy Director General of the Development
Assistance Strategy Division of the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) in Japan



I Hasegawa: lapanS New Role for Regional Social Development In Asia  195
In the case of Japan in the 1 960s, social issues were left to wait until the size of the pie
grew. Economic growth doubled the income level in less than 10 years As a result of this
rapid increase in income, the majority of social problems were resolved. Unemployment
disappeared and wages rose, public health conditions were greatly improved, and welfare
standards were raised in almost every area.
But obviously, in other countries, and even in Japan at an earlier time, social issues
cannot wait. In some cases, the issue of poverty might be much more urgent. Although
economic growth is the most efficient way to solve poverty, we may need to fulfill urgent
needs by diverting economic resources away from growth. This means that economic growth
may not necessarily coincide with an appropriate income distribution. And designing changes
in income distribution over time represents a set of difficult social and political choices. But
in the real world, such choices are often different from what people would choose. Or at
least, we rarely see optimal examples of change in income distribution, in contrast to the
many examples of problems in income distribution.
What are the implications of such inconsistency for ODA? Roughly speaking, there is an
increasing tendency to select social projects over economic infrastructure projects. By "social
projects" I mean projects to improve the social conditions of poorer people By "economic
infrastructure projects," I mean projects to construct economic infrastructure for the purpose
of supporting economic growth.
Box: POLICIES OF THE NEW IBIC
On 1 October 1999, a new Japanese Institution was bom, the Japan Bank for Intemational
cooperation (IBiC), merging Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) and the Export-Import
Bank of Japan (EXIM) The operations on the side of ODA are basically carried over from that of
OECF. The basic policies are summarized as follows:
IBic provides yen credit in support of self-help efforts and host country ownership; the major
counterpart of JBIc Is Asia, where Japan has strong relations geographically, historically,
economically and in other every area,
- with recognition that sustainable development and continuous effort for poverty alleviation
are Important, JBic will continue providing assistance for both Social ProJects and Economic
Infra Prolects,
- IBIC supports the equitable distribution of the benefits of economic development, putting special
importance on gender considerations,
- it is crucially important to pay adequate attention to global warming and other environmental
considerations; and
- as a result of rapid change in the global situation, economic structural change is needed in
many countries JBIC supports such structural reform with particular emphasis on social safety
nets, legal frameworks, promotion of the market economy, and governance.
It is beneficial to select social projects as they have a more direct effect on poorer
people The benefits of economic growth through infrastructure construction may not be
seen in the short term. Furthermore, the constituencies of aid agencies may favor social
projects because the result of such projects can be recognized more easily.
However, such selection is based on the short term, but we should not forget the long
term. Any kind of poverty alleviation effort without increasing income levels is not sustainable
in the long run. To decrease the number of poor people, we need the economy to grow.
Particularly at times of economic crisis, people tend to select more social projects, focusing
on the present emergency, although the importance of economic infrastructure projects
does not decrease. We wish to emphasize the importance of keeping the balance between
social projects and economic infrastructure projects. In the yearly plans for IBIC operations
in each country, we try to balance social considerations with economic growth.



196     Chapter 8. The Regional Dimensions of Poverty
REGIONAL COOPERATION FOR SOCIAL POLICY:
THE ESCAP AGENDA88
Since its founding, the United Nation's ESCAP has been concerned with social
development in the region In 1994 the countries of the region adopted a regional social
development agenda that articulated three goals: the eradication of poverty, the expansion
of employment opportunities, and the fostering of social integration.
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT IN THE ESCAP REGION AFTER THE FINANCIAL CRISIS
To discuss the social implications of the Asian financial crisis, ESCAP has convened two
meetings to assess implementation work on the regional social development Agenda. These
were (i) an Expert Group Meeting on the Agenda for Action on Social Development in the
ESCAP Region, in Bangkok in May 1999; and (ii) the recently concluded Senior Officials Meeting
on the Agenda for Action on Social Development in the ESCAP Region, also in Bangkok in
November 1999.
The main conclusion from the Senior Officials Meetrng was that social development in
the ESCAP Region has been uneven. Problems arising from poverty, lack of employment
opportunities, and social conflicts were deeper and more extensive in some countries than
in others Despite the notable progress made in poverty reduction in much of the region, the
social impact of the financial cnsis was severe Poverty remains profound and endemic,
with millions of people in the region still mired in poverty, with little access to health, education
and other basic social services. Unemployment remains a critical problem. The goals of
social integration stand mostly unachieved. Most governments in the region have gone
past the planning stages for social development and protection. Enactment of enabling
laws and the establishment of appropriate institutional arrangements has occurred in many
countnes, but many are still grappling with limitations of govemance, institutional capabilities,
and financial resources.
The Senior Officials meeting recommendations, for transmittal to the General Assembly,
focused on the continued strengthening of governance. They included, in particular, the
improvement of transparency in decisionmaking, accountability among civil servants, the
acceleration of the decentralization process to the lowest levels of government, and the
continued strengthening of partnerships between the govemment and civil society in the
attainment of social development objectives Actions recommended at intemational level
included. the provision of technical assistance towards understanding of the social impacts
of financial crises and identifying the appropriate social policy and program responses to
these cnses; strengthening of social protection systems, including unemployment assistance,
education and training, and protection schemes for the informal sector
ESCAP'S FOLLOW-UP ACION ON INTERNATIONAL TRANSPARENCY
There is clearly a need for Governments to redouble their efforts in implementing the
regional social development Agenda. ESCAP is taking the lead role in bringing the countries
together, providing them with technical advice and information, and otherwise helping
expand their capacity for full implementation of the regional social development Agenda.
To this end, ESCAP is taking several actions:
88 This paper was wntten by Gonzalo M lurado Mr lurado is Senior Social Affairs officer, Social Development Division
of United Nations Economic and Social commission for Asia and the Pacific



G lurado: Regional Cooperation for Social Policy The ESCAP Agenda  197
* motivating govemment partners in development, including NGOs and the private sector,
to actively assist governments in implementing social development programs;
* transmitting the recommendations of the Senior Official Meetings to the UN General
Assembly, monitoring compliance on both sides of the 20/20 initiative, and pursuing
other initiatives that would contribute to the full implementation of the Social
Development Agenda; and
* monitoring the implementation of social safety nets in the countries of the region
including undertaking a comparative evaluation of social safety nets in an interregional
project.






Long Term
Implications
of Globalization
WHY ARE MULTiNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKs
IN THE Loop AGAiN?89
In recent discussions at least two major views have emerged regarding the causes of
the Asian economic crisis. One view holds that the crisis was caused by panicked speculators
who withdrew from the region's capital markets suddenly; the other that there are structural
factors that triggered the flight of capital and led to the economic crisis. In exploring this
debate, it is important to ask: What are the long-term implications of the Asian economic
crisis?
It was not an accident that (i) the region registered such spectacular growth for nearly
three decades; (ii) it raised the standard of living for its population and reduced poverty; (iii)
it competed so successfully in international export markets; and (iv) that it attracted the
magnitude of resources that it did. If this is all true, then how did the situation change so
suddenly? The answer needs to be given in structural terms as there were institutional
features of the East Asian development pattern that needed to be fixed for further economic
development to take place in the crisis-affected economies.
Moreover, the significance of these developments is not confined only to the cnsis-
affected countries but also includes those DMCs that were not affected in the first instance.
In other words, the crisis is affecting all DMCs-whether initially involved in the crisis or not.
For example, even South Asian economies that were not directly affected by the economic
crisis must fix their financial sectors. These economies too need to clean up the portfolios of
their banks. Government supported credit allocations will have to stop. Accounting and
auditing standards will have to conform to internationally acceptable standards. Without
these remedial measures, the chances of these economies attracting significant amounts of
FDI are low. The crisis has raised the bar for all DMCs whether directly affected by the crisis
or not. It is in this sense that the crisis marks a turning point in development history.
To identify the structural factors underlying the crisis, one has to go beyond the crisis-
affected countries and focus on the region as a whole, including the PRC and Japan. The
changes need to be traced at the global level, for example, the emergence of global
Keynesianism. Global policy directives that contributed to the deepening of crisis must also
be identified. The Asian economic crisis of 1997 is therefore the culmination of many factors,
many of which are outside the immediate control of DMCs. This feature is what marks this
cnsis as different from usual cyclical crises.
Within the DMC countries in the region there were internal factors that contributed to
the crisis in the first place. Capital markets in most of these economies were not well
developed. The exchange rates were fixed, pegged to the Us dollar on the one hand yet
linked to fluctuations in the value of the yen on the other. Dollar-yen fluctuations had thrown
their foreign exchange regimes into disarray. Despite high savings rates, the money was
This paper was written by Brahm Prakash Mr Prakash is a Deputy Chief Economist in the Asian Development
Bank's Research Department in Manila, Philippines



200     Chapter 9 Long-Term Implications of Globalization
sitting in the banks waiting to be utilized. Corporations ended up leveraging a large amount
of credit from banks. Banks had neither the will nor the expertise to supervise the corporations
Share holding in companies was limited to families and friends and thus stockholder
supervision was also weak. These issues were not critical while the going was good. However,
as exports started to slow down in 1996, banks realized that they had over-stretched
themselves and had large amounts of nonperforming loans on their hands.
As 1997 approached, these features of Asian economies were slowly interacting with
each other and having a concerted influence on economic conditions. Externally, the
international economic system was also changing rapidly. The globalization process had
increased the volume and value of trade enormously Information technology applications
reduced the time lag in communications. Financial markets became more integrated. With
an increase in services and embodied technology, the resource Intensity of produced output
declined A glut in supply pushed down commodity prices. Rates of interest were converging
to historically low levels throughout the world. The Washington consensus was pushing for
exclusive dependence on the rate of interest as a policy tool With all of these changes, the
intemal control of economic conditions weakened, and national macroeconomic policies
lost a bit of their erstwhile predominance.
These global features were, in turn, increasing the need for (i) harmonization of policies
and processes; (ii) uniformity in the performance standards of Institutions and countries,
including their governments, judicial systems, and banking and corporate sectors; and (iii)
rapid globalization of technological processes. These needs were translated into some
externally defined and communicated social standards in poorer countries, including
standards of governance, labor (core and child labor), gender, health (HIV/AIDS), education
(compatible certification), and environmental conservation.
To address these needs is a matter of high priority. However, their implementation can
not be forced from the outside in haste. Reforms need to be carried out in consultation with
developing countries and at their pace In addition, it should be noted that most of the
standards for labor, gender, the environment, and the others described above were outcomes
of the market economies in the West But these are now appearing as preconditions of
development in the case of DMCs. Unless DMCs adopt a particular standard or policy, they
are told, foreign direct investment will elude them This transformation of evolutionary
outcomes into preconditions should be a matter of concern for the long-term implications
of development
Because of all these features, the nature of the development agenda is undergoing a
major revision. The long-term vision of development is now concentrated on two major
institutional changes: (i) a shift in public policy from socio-political institutions to market
institutions; and (ii) a shift in focus from wide to narrow and from long-term to short-term.
The end result of all these simultaneous changes is that the social overhead costs of
realizing development are increasing rapidly. The Asian miracle that was engaging the global
economy to finance social investments and eradicate poverty has been reversed. Countries
with very low income levels can hardly afford the costs of development. Much of the future
know-how, technology, and marketing access is controlled by large global corporations.
Declining official development assistance does not help. Infrastructure requirements are
tremendous, and declining commodity pnces hinder growth prospects
What are the options open to developing countries? One can certainly not believe that
the crisis-affected countnes have run out of their factor endowments, or that these market
corrections are in some sense signaling the end of their competitive advantages. Four
important changes that constrain the long-term development of the Asian DMCs can be



B Prakash: Why are Multinational Development Banks In the Loop Again?  201
singled out: (i) the governance of the world economy in which DMCs have little say or input;
(ii) policy directives issued from the global few without any provision for proper adaptation
of these policies in the DMCs; (iii) the growing importance of finance, including the role of
wealth effects, and the implications for resource deployment and broad based employment
generation in developing economies; and (iv) the greater influence and control of market
institutions relative to socio-political institutions and the consequent narrowing of the
development agenda and shortening of the planning horizon.
And all this is taking place at a time when the official development assistance is declining.
Under these conditions, it is not hard to comprehend why the task of development is
becoming more and more difficult for the poor countries. This is true especially with regard
to the availability of long-term financing needed for social and economic infrastructure,
energy, a healthy and well-educated population, habitat preservation and urban
development The recent speech of World Bank president Mr. Wolfensohn, "The Other Crisis,"
is notable in this regard. The social implications of macroeconomic policies need to be
factored into the development agenda.
Notwithstanding the predominance of foreign direct investment, it is the need for this
comprehensive long-term development that perhaps underlies the renewed role of the
multilateral development banks Financing requirements ranging from infrastructure and
energy on the one hand, to vaccination efforts on the other, are stupendous. These
investments are needed to increase productivity of labor. On a more positive note, and
following the comments of Dani Rodrik, the multilateral development banks need to give
special emphasis to long term development: investments, macroeconomic stability, human
development, and good govemance.
In the interest of smooth and peaceful development, it is necessary to build consensus
in the developing countries with regard to the long-term features of development Multilateral
development banks can play an important role in supporting these features in a country-
focused approach. This role would also be in accordance with the historical experience of
development as each of the developed countries has devised its own distinct path.



202     Chapter 9. Long-Term Implications of Globalization
WHAT DOES POVERTY COST? REFLECTIONS ON
PHILIPPINE GOVERNMENT ANTI-POVERTY PROGRAMS90
The cost of poverty is incalculable whether in economic and financial terms, social and
political costs, or most important of all, human dimensions. For nearly two decades, the
world has been preoccupied with defining and measunng poverty, hoping to eradicate it.
The costs of these efforts defy measurement. This paper describes different dimensions of
the costs of poverty, based largely on the Philippine experience in light of the recent Asian
crisis and increasing globalization.
ECONOMIC COSTS
One of the heaviest costs that poverty imposes on the economy of any country is the
exclusion of poor people from meaningful participation in the market economy. Only those
who have goods and services to sell as well as money to buy can be included in the market
The poor have little of both and are largely excluded from the economy's operations. At the
same time, they constitute a massive burden in terms of social services from government
and civil society.
In 1997, at the height of the Asian crisis, poverty incidence for the Philippines was
estimated at 32 percent. Thus, 4.5 million families, with an average of six members per
family, were considered poor That is 27 million individuals who constitute a major cost to
the economy. Furthermore, as of Apnl 1999, unemployment shot up to 11 8 percent. In
absolute terms, four million workers in the Philippines still have no jobs At the same time,
underemployment went up to 22 7 percent. The implication is that more than one fifth of
those considered employed are actually underemployed. As of July 1999, the employment
picture was somewhat better, with the unemployment at 8.4 percent and underemployment
at 22.3 percent. Both poverty and unemployment numbers still give cause for concern.
The cost of the huge army of poor, unemployed, and underemployed to society has
different dimensions. First, there is the additional burden in terms of social services for them
and their families. Second, is the loss in productivity and income, which impacts on the
gross national product. Since the social security system of the country is far from
comprehensive, the burden of maintaining unemployed people usually falls on their families.
FINANCIAL COSTS
Financial costs are actually a part of economic costs In public finance, persistent low
levels of revenue collections relative to expenditure continue to be a problem. High levels of
poverty aggravate the problem of low tax revenues since the poor barely contribute to
direct taxation. The most obvious cost of poverty to the Govemment is its impact on the
national budget, as well as the expenditures of the government financial institutions (GFIs),
government corporations, and local government units. A ranking government official has
been quoted as stating that the entire year 2000 budget is an antipoverty budget. This
could possibly be true in terms of intentions because any item in the national budget can
be described as having an antipoverty component, considering the magnitude of the problem.
Implementation, of course, is another matter.
GOVERNMENT SPENDING FOR ANTIPOVERTY PROGRAMS
The Philippine Government is committed to the 20-20 program initiated by the UNDP,
wherein 20 percent of national governments' budgets should go to basic social seMces
'   This paper was wntten by Leonor M Bnones Prof Bnones is the Treasurer of the Philippines and Presidential
Advisor on Social Development She is also the chairperson of the intemational NGO Asia Watch



L Brfones: What Does Poverty Costs'  203
while 20 percent of ODA would likewise go to basic social services. The Philippine Government
has created a Task Force 20-20 to assure that its commitment is complied with. The Task
Force has identified expenditures in basic education, basic health, and other basic social
expenditures as reflected in actual government expenditures for 1 998, the General
Appropriations for 1999, and the proposed budget for 2000. Actual expenditures for basic
social services and socialized housing constituted 23.4 percent of the budget for 1998,
22.05 percent of the general appropriations for 1999, and 27 percent of the proposed budget
for the year 2000.
This budget does not include economic services delivered by departments of
Government that contain programs intended for the poor. For example, the Food Security
Program Fund of the government totals P1,500 billion. Obviously, a good number of the
projects in this fund are intended for the very poor. Government programs that create jobs
for the very poor can be considered as part of its antipoverty initiatives.
In addition to the national government and local govemment units, govemment financial
institutions and government owned and controlled corporations likewise have programs
targeted for the very poor The three main GFIs, Development Bank of the Philippines, Land
Bank of the Philippines, and Philippine National Bank maintain pro-poor financing programs
and projects.
One can thus conclude that government outlays intended for the poor use substantial
public funds. It goes without saying, of course, that while govemment expenditures intended
for the poor exceed the 20-20 criterion of UNDP, the need to ensure that these pro-poor
programs reach their intended beneficiaries and achieve the desired objective of poverty
reduction remains a continuing challenge. In addition to financial costs to government civil
society also expends considerable time, effort and money towards poverty reduction.
A vast array of international and local NGOs, international and local civic organizations,
peoples organizations as well as church organizations, have programs intended for poverty
alleviation. At the same time, private business has institutionalized programs directed towards
the poor. These are conducted at international and national levels. Finally, a major part of
the financial costs of bearing the burdens of poverty falls directly on immediate family
members who are often only slightly more fortunate. Both the inadequacy of the social
security system as well as deeply entrenched social values obligate family members to help
each other.
CONCLUSION
During the Social Development Summit initiated by the UNDP, three major issues were
tackled: poverty, unemployment, and social disintegration. While not all problems of
unemployment, and social disintegration can be traced to poverty, clearly these three issues
are closely related. Social problems that lead to the disintegration of the social fabric such
as criminal activity, drugs, and violence, especially against women and children, are linked
to poverty. Poverty also has political costs. Chronic and unresolved poverty problems tend
to translate into political issues that threaten stability it is not surprising that the regions in
the country identified as among the poorest are also hotbeds of rebellion.
But the most damning cost of poverty Is not the considerable economic, financial,
social, and political costs it is the waste of human lives. How does one measure the cost of
a single human life condemned to a meaningless existence with no education, inadequate
health, unemployment, and possibly violence? The utter waste of lives distorted, deformed,
and destroyed by poverty is incalculable.



204      Chapter 9 Long-Term Implications of Globalization
ASIA's ECONOMIC AND STRucTURAL PoLIcY AGENDA91
The subject "poverty reduction" is a growing industry. The World Bank has been a
champion of poverty reduction ADB has recently announced a focus on poverty reduction
as its single overarching objective. The IMF is also turning attention to poverty reduction.
This type of competition in the area of poverty reduction is healthy and will promote more
serious research activities and policy initiatives.
The purpose of this presentation is to examine some linkages between macro-structural
aspects of the current economic recovery and reform processes, and policy issues related to
social sector protection and poverty reduction.
MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
Macro-structural policies are linked to social-poverty policy issues. The East Asian cnsis
interrupted three decades of steady growth accompanied by remarkable improvements in
social conditions and substantial progress in poverty reduction. The crisis had a large negative
effect not only on banks, corporations, and govemments but also on household welfare.
Macro-structural policies to amend the troubled bank and corporate sectors have significant
fiscal implications for governments, particularly in managing social conflict in the years to
come.
After the eruption of the crisis in 1997, economic activity rapidly contracted Following
macroeconomic stabilization efforts, financial variables such as exchange rates, stock prices,
and interest rates began to stabilize in 1998 despite a rapid GDP contraction. In 1999, we
have seen a surprisingly rapid recovery of GDP and this recovery is expected to continue
into the year 2000. However, risks remain Extemal environments are not certain due to the
possibility of the end of the prolonged expansion of the US economy and the continued
fragility of Japan's economic recovery. At the same time, the processes of restructunng the
domestic banking and corporate sectors in some countries, particularly Indonesia and
Thailand, are slow, and there is a risk to the current economic recovery if significant
restructuring is not pursued.
BANK AND CORPORATE RESTRUCTrURNG
Many efforts have been undertaken to minimize financial market distress and to
restructure bank and corporate sectors. Let us examine some of those actions in four crisis-
affected countries Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, and Thailand.
In the early phase of the financial crisis, the central banks of these countries injected
liquidity into the financial system to rescue troubled commercial banks and financial
institutions. Later this central bank liquidity injection was fiscalized, resulting in a hike in
public debt. This fire-fighting process also provided blanket guarantees to bank depositors
and other creditors, and resolved nonviable financial institutions through closures, mergers,
and nationalization Next, the crisis-affected countries moved to recapitalize and rehabilitate
weak but viable banks and financial institutions by setting up frameworks to carve out bad
assets from their balance sheets and transfer those assets to centralized asset management
companies, allowing entry to foreign strategic investors, or providing public support for
bank recapitalization. Finally, the countries have now entered the phase of asset resolution
and bank reprivatization The market share of assets acquired by the govemment, including
state-owned banks, intervened banks and centralized asset management corporations
9 This paper was wntten by Masahiro Kawai Mr Kawai is the Chief Economist for East Asia and Pacific Region of the
World Bank, in Washington, DC



M Kawat: AslaS Economic and Structural Policy Agenda  205
(AMCs), is large. The share of government-held assets is 78 percent for Indonesia, 58 percent
for Republic of Korea, and 45 percent for Thailand. Essentially, the governments socialized a
large volume of assets in the process of crisis resolution. The process of asset disposal and
reprivatization of intervened banks, or in other words the desocializatlon of assets and
banks, has just begun. However, the Indonesian banking system and the Thai banking system,
to a lesser extent, are still in distress
In the area of corporate sector restructuring, three different approaches have been
adopted. The first approach is to strengthen the legal and judiciary system so that court-
based bankruptcy, foreclosure, and reorganization procedures can be effectively enforced.
If effective, the court-based system can discourage delays in debt resolution negotiations.
The second approach is to develop a formal process outside the court, based on the 'London
Rules" approach of a voluntary debt negotiation system. Though formal voluntary processes
are in place, they have not been sufficiently effective and a large number of strategic defaults
has been observed. The third approach is the corporate debt restructunng led by a centralized
official AMC, such as the Indonesian Bank Restructuring Authority ([BRA), Korean Asset
Management Company (KAMCO), and Danaharta. But this process has just begun and has a
long way to go.
FISCAL IMPLICATIONS OF THE CRISIS
In 1997, the ratio of public debt to GDP in many East Asian countries was quite low due
to prudent fiscal management. Although the public debt/GDP ratio for Indonesia was almost
50 percent, for the Republic of Korea it was only about 14 percent As a result of financial
sector resolution and fiscal stimulus in the past two years, the public debt/GDP ratio has
skyrocketed. In the case of Indonesia it is expected to reach close to 100 percent and in the
case of the Republic of Korea it will be close to 30 percent. Other East Asian countries'
figures fall between these two countries' ratios. Further costs of financial sector resolution
are anticipated and contingent liabilities are not yet accounted for Indonesia is beginning
to face large external as well as domestic debt problems and this poses the problem of fiscal
sustainability and a trade-off of govemment spending among different priority items
SOCIAL SECTOR PROTECTION AND POVERTY REDUCTION
The crisis had a large, negative impact on households. Social sector conditions, such as
school attendance and health service provision, deteriorated and poverty became more
acute throughout the region. However, the social impact of the crisis was less than had
originally been feared. The economy was surprisingly flexible in absorbing the consequences
of the crises households protected their consumption of some critical items by drawing
down on savings; the informal social safety net, provided by extended families and
communities, was quite resilient in many countries; the labor market was flexible in securing
employment, though real wages had to go down; and governments quickly beefed up safety
net programs
Nonetheless, the crisis exposed important limitations in the ability of private and public
safety nets to cope with large negative shocks, and revealed the need for policies and
institutions to assist households in effectively managing risks. East Asian countries must
move towards a more formalized social safety net society, particularly in high-income
countries such as the Republic of Korea.
The fact must be emphasized that a positive correlation exists between economic growth
and poverty reduction in the long run. This is why restructuring of the banking and corporate
sectors is important to sustain economic recovery and, hence, to ensure poverty reduction.
At the same time, we have to focus on micro poverty issues to promote the poors access to
markets, more equal income distribution, and broad-based economic development.



206     Chapter 9: Long-Term Implications of Globalization
ISSUES AND QUESTIONS
Several issues and questions should be considered, and some of these might be
controversial and debatable
The first question is whether the current economic recovery process encourages or
discourages bank and corporate restructuring. One answer is that the current economic
recovery process will discourage bank and corporate restructunng because policymakers
could become complacent while creditors and debtors wait and see, hoping that economic
recovery will solve their problems. Another answer is that vigorous economic recovery will
accelerate bank and corporate restructuring because debtor corporations will need credit
flows from the banking sector to benefit from the growing market through increases in
production and sales, so they will be forced to negotiate with their creditors to restructure
their debt Only after debt restructunng, will they start receiving credit and will not miss the
opportunity of growth Our analyses show that either the growing-out or wait-and-see strategy
is nsky for both Indonesia and Thailand.
A second question is that given a large amount of assets transferred to the hands of the
government, how should the government and centralized AMCs desocialize and de-
nationalize banks and assets acquired One of the clear objectives of the government is to
maximize asset recovery in order to reduce the net cost of crisis resolution, thereby
maintaining fiscal sustainability The issue is whether or not the government and the AMCs
should sell the acquired assets or banks to whoever bids the highest price, even if the
bidders come from the same pool of previous owners. Or should the government try to sell
the assets to new players, whether foreigners or domestic businesses, even if the sales price
may be lower? Another sticky issue is whether or not some ethnic consideration should be
made in the asset disposal process if asset redistribution favoring a particular ethnic group
is done in a transparent way based on well-prescribed rules, say in Indonesia, would it be a
good policy consistent with broad-based growth and poverty reduction9 We don't know the
answer.
A third question is how the losses due to crisis resolution should be distributed among
different groups of people, or how the diminishing fiscal resources should be allocated among
different priorities. If we jeopardize fiscal sustainability, we know that macro stability will
not be maintained and, hence, long-term poverty reduction will be at risk. Many revenue
generating measures would have to be adopted and unnecessary expenditures cut But at
the same time, expenditures for poverty reduction and social protection-education and
health in particular-would have to be protected. This is another big challenge
There is no question that the capacity to manage social risks needs to be strengthened
in order for a country to benefit from globalization, which can be a source of shocks and
turbulence. The challenge is how to proritize the social and poverty agenda, which is complex
and for which the required fiscal resources are potentially large. Countnes need to focus on
capacity building and complementary institution strengthening on the part of the govemment
and households and then set pnorities among social sector needs and poverty reduction.



B Khamidov: Social Benefits of a Gradual Approach  207
SociAL BENEFITS OF A GRADUAL APPROACH:
THE EXAMPLE OF UZBEKISTAN92
During the first years of independence, when Uzbekistan had to preserve an increasingly
fragile social stability, the country created from the outset the constitutional and legal basis
for a democratic state and a market-based economy This foundation was made possible
largely by the policies of Mr. Islam Karimov, the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan. The
major principle of this model is a gradual approach toward economic transformation
combined with strong social protection programs for the most vulnerable in the population.
Adopting a gradual reform process is a deliberate policy choice intended to minimize the
negative effects of transition that have been so evident in other countnes of the former
Soviet Union, including sharp drops in living standards, a decline in social indicators, and
the erosion of social capital
SOCIAL POLICY PRIORITY
Among the key priorities and major achievements of the active social policy followed
by the independent Republic are continued development of the legal framework protecting
human rights and establishing social protection. Parliament has recently passed several
laws dealing with unemployment, pensions, and basic education. A second priority is targeting
assistance to the most vulnerable groups of the population, including those who are adjusting
to the new market environment The Government is continuing to implement direct social
programs that highlight productive social infrastructure, including limited subsidization of
gas and utilities, provision of public health and education programs, and extending
preferential credit for private housing construction. A third priority is continued privatization
of state assets, with a particular focus on the rural population More than 550,000 ha of
irrigated land have been transferred into private farms This process reduces rural
unemployment, increases incomes, and increases food production.
PROGRAM FOCUS
The following six areas are of highest priority to the social policy agenda in Uzbekistan.
Old Age. Uzbekistan has not undertaken radical reform of its pension system as has
occurred in other former Soviet Union countnes. The Government believes that the priority
should be to improve the operation of the pension system within the existing framework.
Minimizing upheaval in pension provision, which is a fundamental element of social
protection, helps to maintain the stability of society. That the system Is feasible is supported
by the fact that Uzbekistan has always met the pension liabilities to the 2.5 million pension
recipients.
Disabilityr The problem of disability is a serious concem for Uzbekistan. Currently, more
than 700,000 people suffer from some form of disability, amounting to about 3 percent of
the entire population. The national program for rehabilitation covering the period 1996-
2000 contains a number of important initiatives, including disability prevention and medical,
social, and productive rehabilitation through special rehabilitation centers. Medical and
social assistance will be provided through home care, and rehabilitative devices such as
orthopedic and prosthetic limbs will be made available. Special transportation initiatives
will also be developed to accommodate the disabled. Finally, training for disabled workers
9 This paper was written by Bakhtiya K Khamidov Mr Khamidov is the Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan and the
Govemor of his country to the Asian Development Bank



B Khamidov: Social Benefits of a Gradual Approach  209
The country has strong productive resources with a labor force that is growing at more
than 2 percent per year. Unemployment is not a serious problem in Uzbekistan and is in fact
lower than in other transition economies. Three quarters of the employed workforce is
engaged in pnvate sector, and more than 160,000 small and medium enterprises are
operating. Between 1993 and 1998 more than 1.5 million new jobs have been created,
including one million in the rural areas. In addition, household incomes are more evenly
distributed in Uzbekistan than in many other Commonwealth of independent States (CIS)
countries.
However, the recent economic and social success of the country must not induce
complacency. We realize that in the new millennium there is a need for continued
development of social policy, particularly with regard to employment policy. Priority areas
also include effective social protection, social infrastructure development, and reform of the
public health and education systems



210       Chapter 9. Long-Term Implications of Globalization
PROMOTION OF SOCIAl. DEVELOPMENT IN ASIA:
THE JAPAN BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL COOPERA11ON93
Globalization in the intemational economy has brought about sweeping changes in
the extemal circumstances of Japan: deepening interdependence among the economies,
currency crises, global environment problems and other issues having global implications.
The IBIC was created on 1 October 1999, to implement Japan's economic development
response to this changing world economy. This paper describes the new JBIC and its role for
intemational development and cooperation in the Asia region.
JBIC integrates the functions of two previous organizations: The Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan and The Export-import Bank of Japan The new organization's
operations consist of two distinct components:
* ODA operations. Overseas economic cooperation operations support self-reliant
development efforts in developing countries, and
* non-ODA operations International Financial Operations contribute to the promotion of
Japanese exports and imports, as well as Japanese economic activities overseas, and to
the stability of intemational financial markets.
JBIC's budget in financial year 1999 (April-March) amounts to k(2,946 billion ($27.8
billion)9 Of this budget, Yf920 billion ($8 7 billion) is for ODA operations and Y2,026 billion
($19.1 billion) is for non-ODA operations. The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA),
which engages in technical cooperation in Japan's ODA, has a budget of Y1 86 billion in the
financial year of 1999 ($1.8 billion)
STRENGTHENING ORGANIZATIONAL EFFORTS FOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
JBIC's ODA operations promote social development projects These include projects
such as rural water supply and sanitation, primary and secondary education, social forestry,
microfinance, primary health care, and urban/rural community infrastructure
An independent Environment and Social Development Office was established in October
1997 to coordinate social development matters. This office strengthens JBIC's responsiveness
to environment and social aspects of development projects, and facilitates collaboration
with other organizations
To strengthen its support for social development prolects, JBIC utilizes the Special
Assistance Facility (SAF)95. This includes surveys encompassing social analysis and field
surveys for gender and social impact analysis.
JBIC PRIORITIES FOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Beneficiary participation is particularly necessary for social development. JBIC has made
special efforts to bring about the participation of local residents, taking into account various
social considerations
93 This paper was wntten by Rentaro Tamaishl Mr irmaishi is the Director of the Social Development Division in the
Environment and social Development Office of the Japan Bank for international Cooperation, in Japan
The exchange rate as of 1 October 1999 was Y1 06 - $1
special Assistance Facility is a study carried out by consultants employed and dispatched by IBIC The funds
necessary for SAF are provided by IBIC as grant assistance SAF compnses three types of facilities Special Assis-
tance for Prolect Formation (SAPROF), Special Assistance for Prolect Implementation (SAPI), and Special Assistance
for Prolect Sustainability (SAPS)



R Tomaishi. Promotion of Social Development In Asia  211
According to the United Nations, women account for 70 percent of the world's poor.
Thus, there is still a very important need to undertake women in development-related projects
that focus specifically on women. Although the number of JBIC funded projects whose principal
beneficiaries are women is not large, special attention is paid to ensure that IBICts projects
benefit women and that project activities do not negatively affect them.
IBIC also continues to support microfinance projects as an effective means to address
poverty.
The Asian currency crisis developed in 1997 and rapidly spread to countries throughout
Asia. The Japanese Government announced the New Miyazawa Initiative in October 1998 to
deal with the problems of the crisis and to bring about the early recovery of the Asian
economies. This program was created as a $30 billion financial assistance scheme: $15
billion in ODA loans and non-ODA tools for medium- to long-term financial assistance, and
$15 billion as short-term capital needs prompted by the process of economic reforms The
funds focus on the protection of the weaker members of society (through expansion and
reinforcement of social safety nets), as well as the stimulation of the economy (implementation
of public undertakings to increase employment). To assist socially vulnerable groups in Asian
countries, IBIC has provided ODA loans such as the Social Safety Net Loan, and the Economic
Recovery and Social Sector Program Loan under the New Miyazawa Initiative.
IBIC'S POLICY ON SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
As a result of the recent Asian currency and economic crises, the gap between the rich
and the poor is widening. However, a basic principle of IBIC's ODA loans is to assist self-help
efforts of developing countries to narrow this gap for more equitable social development.
Hence, IBIC intends to respond to the diverse development needs of these countries by
balancing the short-term approach to overcome the economic crisis and the long-term
approach to secure sustainable development.
Due to geographic proximity and close historical and economic ties, IBIC's ODA operations
have traditionally focused on the Asian region. JBIC will continue to focus on Asian countries
with whom Japan maintains close relations.
CONCLUSIONS
jBIC will strive to balance assistance for projects that promote economic growth on the
one hand, including economic and social infrastructure projects and industrial development
projects, and assistance for social development projects, which address poverty directly. It
is important to secure gender equality and participation in the development process and in
the distribution of benefits from development. Also, IJBC will continue to support the socially
vulnerable in Asia under the New Miyazawa Initiative, through the improvement of social
safety nets as well as the promotion of employment



212      Chapter 9. Long-Term Implications of Globalization
THE NEW IMF ARcHmcTURE IN ASIA96
After almost two years of senous economic disruption, the Asian economies have begun
to rebound Growth rates are positive and significantly higher than earlier projected; inflation
rates have come down to modest levels, interest rates are far below the peaks experienced
in 1997 and 1998, and exports are expanding. Yet the period of crisis was no ordinary
cyclical trough. Its emergence was partly the consequence of an absence of the policy reforms
necessary to prosper in a global economy with increasingly open capital markets. The costs
of the crisis were not small, output declined and remains below trend, and poverty rates
increased (although by less than initially feared). Many enterprises were bankrupted or
have survived only in a financially weak condition
It is important for policymakers in Asia to draw the appropriate lessons from the
experience of the last decade and maintain their resolve to implement reforms. indeed, the
structural policy reforms that should have been the necessary complements to the growth-
oriented policies of the 1990s remain as urgent as before. The IMF firmly believes that a
social agenda is vital to the reform initiatives of the Asian region. Reforms in the areas of
structural, regulatory, and macroeconomic policy management are now clearly recognized
as prerequisites for sustainable growth But reforms must be complemented by a social
policy framework, both to ensure a capacity to address the social consequences of inevitable
cyclical downturns and to foster a flexible labor market and achieve the investment in
human capital necessary for growth. The longer-term issues associated with providing for
aging populations must also be addressed
THE STRUCTURAL ARCHITECTURAL AGENDA
Since the Asian crisis, a consensus has emerged on the priorities for institutional reform.
The objective is to support vibrant growing economies that can benefit from global investment
capital seeking high retums, while still being resilient to destabilizing pressures that can
emerge, whether from contagion, capital movements, or external economic developments.
Avoiding steep recessions and providing an environment that facilitates rapid growth in
output and employment are the most powerful preventive strategies for reducing poverty.
The institution of stronger legal, regulatory, and supervisory frameworks is crucial for
sustaining growth. These "second generation reforms" should encompass: new or
strengthened bankruptcy and foreclosure laws, judicial procedures that allow for an
expeditious resolution of claims; accountancy practices that ensure that the financial position
of corporations is transparent to investors; and regulatory and tax reforms that eliminate
discretionary exemptions, high rates, and multiple incentives and credits. More flexible labor
market policies and adherence to ILO pnnciples are equally relevant. Actions to comply
with the Fund's new Codes of fiscal, monetary and financial transparency, to strengthen
banking supervision in line with the Easel Core Principles, and to participate fully in the
Special or the General Data Dissemination Standards (including greater transparency on
external reserve positions) would be important first steps in this direction.
THE SOCIAL POLICY AGENDA
There are four essential elements of an enhanced social policy agenda: (i) investing in
human capital as an essential part of any strategy for growth and poverty reduction; (ii)
developing a capacity for targeting the protection of the poor dunng economic shocks, (iii)
establishing cost-effective social insurance policies that both reflect prevailing local cultural
9° This paper was wntten by Peter S Heller Mr Heller Is the Deputy Director of the Fiscal Affairs Department of the
International Monetary Fund in Washington, DC



P Heller The New IMF Architecture In Asia  213
norms and that do not create large disincentive effects in the labor market; and (iv)
establishing vehicles for long-term savings in the context of aging populations.
Investments in human capital have long been recognized as central to anygrowth strategy.
The Asian economic miracle witnessed the achievement of high literacy rates, investments
in secondary and higher education, proliferation of networks of primary health care facilities,
and the spread of high quality secondary and tertiary medical care. The challenges now
faced by many Asian economies are increasingly similar to those encountered by industnal
countries-to ensure that social sector spending is efficient, that costs are contained, and
that equity in access is achieved.
Addressing surges in poverty and income loss A salient lesson of the recent crisis was
the lack of preparedness by govemments to respond to the sharp losses in wage income
and the large jump in unemployment rates. In part, this failure reflected the lack of monitoring
systems. Governments should have the capacity already set up to identify those groups and
regions where poverty is particularly a problem, as well as to understand the factors and
dynamics responsible for the persistence of such poverty In the recent crisis, governments
lacked the institutional capacity to rapidly put in place targeted schemes to cushion the
impact of income losses. Public works schemes were slow in getting off the ground and
when developed, did not offer much confidence that they could avoid serious governance
problems, such as waste and abuse Subsidy schemes proved badly targeted, resulting in
income transfers to non-poor groups.
Social insurance to address life-cycle contingencies. Throughout the industrial world,
formal systems of social insurance are in place to insure against adverse events such as
disability, unemployment, death of a household's main income provider, and old age Such
systems have begun to develop in some emerging market countries of Asia. The development
of public pension systems in some countnes has been the leading edge. But systems are
slowly emerging in other spheres. For example, in the Republic of Korea, an unemployment
insurance system has progressively been put in place that allows workers some income
coverage during periods of unemployment For those Asian economies that are participating
in the global economy, it is certain that there will be flux in the industrial and service
sectors-as dynamic finms grow and inefficient enterprises shrink and close down. Moving
from situations without formal unemployment insurance or only enterprise-specific systems
to some form of broader unemployment insurance coverage will become a necessary piece
of the social architecture in these countries.
Aging populations Asian populations are aging and the capacity for traditional old age
support systems to cope with the changing demographics of the next century must certainly
be considered problematic. Asian societies have demonstrated a high capacity and
willingness to save; in some cases, this has been institutionalized in national provident fund
schemes (e.g, in Malaysia and Singapore); in other cases, pension systems have been limited
to some segments of the formal sector, civil service, or a selected group of larger enterprises.
The challenges in designing a financially viable multi-pillar pension system that can sustain
an aging population have been the sublect of much attention, and our understanding of the
risks and benefits associated with different approaches-public, private, or mixed, defined
benefit and defined contribution-is now quite substantial We understand much about the
institutional prerequisites of different systems-in terms of the types of financial products
and institutions that need to be developed and the regulatory and governance challenges
that are posed it is clear that most Asian countries have much work to do, both in terms of
designing systems with broader coverage and in developing an institutional framework
that can reliably, and with good governance, deliver on the promises that will be implicit in
any scheme.



214      Chapter 9: Long-Term Implications of Globalization
THE ROLE OF THE IMF
The initiatives unveiled at the 1999 Bank-Fund Annual Meetings sLx have truly placed
poverty reduction at the center of the IMF's efforts for Its low-income member countnes The
IMF's concessional lending facility, the ESAF, (Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility) has
been transformed into the new Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), which makes
poverty reduction a key element of a renewed growth-oriented economic strategy. The
cornerstone of the new approach is a nationally owned, comprehensive Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (the PRSP). This strategy paper will be country driven, prepared by the
authorities with assistance from the World Bank and the IMF, and reflecting an open,
participatory process involving civil society, relevant international institutions, and donors.
It will identify pnorities for public action to achieve the greatest impact on poverty reduction.
it will also address the critical and often complex issues related to enhancing good govemance
and supporting transparency in policymaking
In the necessary division of labor between the IMF and the World Bank, the latter
institution, with its sister institutions-the ADB, the other regional development banks, and
UN agencies-will be at the forefront of discussions with authorities on the design of policies
for poverty reduction In providing financial support, the Fund will place high priority on the
key reform measures critical to achieving rapid and sustainable growth that also leads to
faster poverty reduction
But it is also important to understand the IMF's contribution in the social area for tl'e,
many countries of the world that are not implementing Fund-supported programs. This, of
course, is particularly relevant for many Asian economies Here the Fund's role principally
arises from its surveillance responsibilities-its close working relationship with countries in
discussing their macroeconomic policies and the global and regional economic environment
within which these policies must function The Fund has paid increased attention to the
social implications of its policy advice Some find it controversial that an essentially
macroeconomic institution should focus on social issues. However, we have come to recognize
that poverty, unemployment, and severe inequalities in income distribution can undermine
growth and lead to large welfare transfers that burden the budget For this reason the Fund
has emphasized that as part of its surveillance process, its staff should collect and monitor
social and poverty indicators as needed. The views of other international agencies with
principal responsibility in the social spheres will be sought, taking advantage of their
comparative advantage and expertise.
CONCLUSION
What is apparent is that the crisis in Asia has made us all aware not only of the
remarkable strengths and resiliency of the Asian economies, but of the important policy
agenda-both in the economic and social spheres that must be tackled in the coming years
if these countries are to make the transition to high income economies with low rates of.
poverty in a sustainable manner.



K Gautam: Weapons or Well-Being in East Asia?  215
WEAPONS OR WELL-BEING? EAST ASIA'S
MOST IMPORTANT CHOICE FOR THE NEW MILLENNIUM97
INTRODUCTION
The East Asian economic crisis pushed millions of this regionts families into poverty.
Thankfully, it is now becoming clear that the region is slowly emerging from this period of
economic malaise. Most of the region's currencies are now relatively stable, interest rates
are down, foreign exchange reserves are up, consumer spending on the increase, equity
markets enjoying gains, and unemployment rates falling. In addition, a new economic
discipline is being put into place in many countries to help ensure that this recovery will be
sustained and that the possibility of future economic shocks will be minimized.
The region's poor have not yet been invited to the recovery banquet. The improving
economic conditions have not yet restored their fonmer purchasing power Unemployment
rates, though down from their peak, are still unacceptably high. In short, there are still more
poor than before the crisis, more people without jobs, and more parents who are seeing
their dreams for their children's future die stillborn in the quagmire of poverty.
Chart 3: Military Expenditures by Region
(percentage change between 1988 and 1997
East Asia
South Asia
_ Middie East
Amencas             l
World
Sub-Sahara.
Africa - 
Europ_
.60  -50  -40  -30  -20  -10  0  1(  20  30  40  50   60
Source. Stockholm Intemational Peace Research institute Yearbook 1998
MIUTARY SPENDING IN EAST ASIA
But it is still far from clear how the dividends of the economic recovery will be divided
among competing constituencies. will governments allocate increased funding to the basic
social service programmes so sorely needed to assist the children and families that have
suffered the most from the consequences of the crisis, and by doing so continue to build on
the social and economic successes of recent decades? Or will the beneficiaries be the weapons
makers and the military that have laid claim to a large and growing share of govemment
expenditures?
This paper was written by Kul C Gautam. Mr Gautam was the Regional Director of UNICEF for East Asia and the
Pacific He Is now the Deputy Executive Dlrector for Alliances and Resources In the UNICEF headquarters in New York



216      Chapter 9 Long-Term implications of Globalization
The socioeconomic success of many of this region's countnes prior to the crisis is known
around the world, but the fact is that this prosperity brought along with it some of the
highest levels of military spending in the world. Between 1988 and 1997, as military
expenditures fell by 34 percent for the world as a whole, expenditures in East Asia and
Pacific actually increased by 27 percent. (South Asia also increased its expenditures by 22
percent, and the Middle East by 9 percent) PRC and the Republic of Korea have accounted
for the majority of the region's overall military spending during the past two decades But
less visibly, in ASEAN countries, military expenditures increased by 52 percent in real terms
between 1988 and 1997. This increase, which was greater in both absolute and percentage
terms than that of any other region, occurred as the world as a whole cut military spending
by 34 percent.
Chart 4: Military Expenditures of Different Asian Countries (million $, 1995 prices)
4500
4000               _18E1=
3500
3000
2500      -    -
2000
1500                -         _____l -             .
1000- _     -      -
500                                      Fgfi    _
0U
Source: Stockholm International Peace Research Institute Yearbook 1998
The high level of military spending in East Asia was somewhat curtailed by the onset of
the 1 997 economic crisis, which resulted in overall reductions in central government
expenditures as well as currency depreciations that made importation of some armaments
prohibitively expensive In addition, some governments began to, or already were, shifting
funding pnonties away from the military toward social development programs.
Nevertheless, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) recently noted
that even though the strong growth in military expenditures in Asia slowed as a result of the
economic crisis, "they have still not started to decline even in East Asia, which was most
affected by the crisis. While the volume of arms procurement has been scaled down
significantly due to the reduced purchasing power of their currencies on the world arms
market, the domestic burden of their military expenditure is not declining
THE NEED FOR INVESTING IN HUMAN SECURITY
This resilience in the level of military expenditures should and must be a cause for
concern to us all since so many urgent human development challenges still need to be
addressed in the region. Today, the East Asia region is still home to about two million children
under the age of five who die each year of preventable causes; three million infants who are
not immunized against measles; six to 10 million children of pnmary school age who are
out of school, 36 million children under the age of five who are malnourished; 100 million
people who lack access to safe dnnking water, 200 million illiterate adults, and 300 million
people struggling to survive on less than $1 a day.



K Gautam. Weapons or Well-Belng in East Asia?  217
Chart 5: Mllitary Expenditures by Organization
(percentage change, 1988 to 1997)
60 - SEAN
40fl_____
20 -                          .     -Q EEC
-20               EU
-40        cis        NATO  OECD         O
-60        CIS                           OSCE
Source Stockholm International Peace Research institute Yearbook 1998
As the countries of this region recover from the crisis and begin to earmark funds for
these problems and other pressing social concerns, there will also be strong pressure from
other sectors, including the military, for increased funding To ensure that a significant share
of available resources goes to basic social services, the "security" of nations needs to be
recognized as more than an ability to defend borders and control internal strife It also
needs to be seen in terms of guaranteeing "human security" through the provision of adequate
health and education for children and their families, the protection of the environment, and
continued economic prosperity.
in the context of this definition of security, diverting resources from military hardware
and staff to basic social services becomes not only a moral imperative but also a strategic
necessity. Indeed, recent studies by the IMF have indicated that excessive military spending
may retard economic growth over the medium term. Major battles have yet to be waged
against deadly foes such as HIV/AIDS and the resurgent threats of old enemies such as
tuberculosis and malaria. There is also a need for a stronger focus on the dangers that affect
people's daily lives, such as hunger, illness, illiteracy, joblessness, and crime. Even a small
percentage reduction in the tens of billions of dollars spent yearly on military programs in
the region could free the resources needed for this battle Ensuring all children have improved
access to basic services would require only millions-not billions-of dollars. Initiatives such
as the 20/20 compact, which calls upon donors and developing countries to ensure that 20
percent of their development and aid budgets go to basic social services, could provide
adequate resources to meet the basic needs of all children and vulnerable groups.
Some countries that face real or perceived security threats may protest that it is difficult
to make reductions in military budgets. But it is clear that many of the weapons and strategies
elaborated by governments in this region for "defense" are increasingly irrelevant to the real
underlying instabilities and dangers their people face. But every country has an opportunity
to explore ways for reducing military expenditures. Donors who provide aid to the region,
but also produce and sell arms to it, need to examine their own actions to see if the messages
they are giving are consistent ones. But what can the developing countries of this region do
for themselves? The Philippines and Viet Nam have made commendable efforts in reducing
their own military expenditures during the past decade. In Thailand, where civilian democracy
has taken hold, efforts have begun to reduce the large number of generals and other high-



218     Chapter 9. Long-Term Implications of Globalization
ranking officers in the military ranks, and we hope these efforts will continue. Cambodia,
which is enjoying peace for the first time in 30 years, could also continue encouraging the
demobilization of its military Myanmar, which has made peace with its many insurgency
movements, could now act to reverse the country's recent trend of increased military spending
and declining investments in basic social services. And one could imagine the region's newest
state, East Timor, which suffered years of horrific violence before gaining independence,
aiming towards one day being a model within East Asia of a peaceful state that does not feel
the need for a military, like Costa Rica, with whom it shares the distinction of having Nobel
Peace Pnze winners among its leaders.
CONCLUSIONS
Recently, for the first time in history, all the Nobel Peace Prize laureates signed an
appeal to the heads of all the Member States of the United Nations Their appeal was for
each of the States, as well as all members of the human community, to promote in the new
millennium a culture of nonviolence and peace for all the world's children Our region's
goals could be no more noble than encouraging the same. Redirecting public funds towards
unmet social needs would enable governments of this region to lead their people in a renewed
battle against poverty, hunger, disease, and illiteracy Surely winning that battle would be
the most important triumph of any nation, and would ensure the most lasting peace for the
region's children.



T Jones Sustainable Development New Milestones for Asia  219
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT: NEW            MILESTONES FOR ASIA98
Opportunity is sometimes created out of crisis; and such is everyone's hope for the
present discussion of the long-term implications of the Asian financial crisis. While the causes
of the crisis are still being debated and its consequences are still unfolding, the present
moment-two years from the initial onslaught-does appear to be a propitious time to ensure
that the most important lessons learned are in fact applied to encouraging and sustaining
appropriate reform measures-to build in fact a culture of prevention into our decisionmaking.
One important by-product of the Asian crisis is the emergence of a set of policies and
operating principles designed to promote human development in ways that could make the
region less vulnerable to socially destructive fallout from future global market fluctuations
that are bound to occur. These policy initiatives are aimed at achieving long-term sustainable
human development in Asia.
COMPLEXITY OF THE CRISIS AND CRISIS RESPONSES
Cnses do not affect all sections of the population equally, and crises themselves come
in many forms This year is regarded as one of the worst on record for both natural and
human made humanitarian crises. Although we are discussing primarily the impact of a
financial crisis, the fact that we were found wanting in predicting and managing it should
heighten our determination to be better prepared for the next, and the next, since financial
crises are historically numerous.
The Secretary General of the UN has called for a culture of prevention. To create such a
culture we must learn from other crises as we study this financial one. Indeed similar lessons
are being leamed when we address environmental concerns, natural disasters, HIV/AIDS,
structural and trade adjustments, and conflicts. The relationship of short-term crisis response
policies to longer-term reform policies is a very complex one that demands inputs from
social and political sectors as well as economic and financial sectors. Thus the complexity
of the problems requires a long-term and holistic outlook. UNDP has been supporting
countnes in crafting Vision 2020 strategies, in an effort to see beyond the immediate crisis,
to better predict and cope with the next one, and to stay on a sustainable human development
track These efforts and others such as those of the CDF (Comprehensive Development
Framework) of the World Bank should encourage a more preventive approach to dealing
with crises.
The complex nature of any crisis requires a new social compact for reform over the
long-term. Political, social, economic, and financial leaders must be engaged as equals in a
process aimed at overcoming constraints to development, of which a crisis is just a part. Is
there the political will to forge such a compact? The poor are often voiceless and the most
severely affected. Reform is soon forgotten when urgency passes Trade unions, the private
sector, and civil society should be vital partners in dealing with a crisis and in providing the
necessary reforms. The experience with Structural Adjustment Programs shows the
importance of social dialogue and ownership of reform processes.
EMPOWERMENT AS THE KEY TO EFFECTIVE PROTECTION
Because the social impact of the crisis is varied and uneven, a centralized, top-down,
one-size-fits-all approach to mitigating this impact cannot be effective. Communities
themselves are best able to grasp their immediate prionties and formulate their long-term
4 This paper was written by Terence Jones Mr lones is United Nations Development Programme Resident Represen-
tative in the Philippines



220     Chapter 9 Long-Term Implications of Globalization
goals Empowerment of various social groups and communities is essential if they are to
cope adequately with any crisis, and so they must be given means and opportunity to deal
with crisis on their own terms. Solutions imposed from above to suit all will lead to opposition
to change and to ineffective responses or, even worse, to civil unrest. There is need to create
appropriate social institutions and instruments to respond to effects of the crisis to ensure
equity and justice. Policy and planning methods and indicators should be adjusted to reflect
a rights-based approach to development, which in itself will prepare communities better to
withstand crises
POLICIES AIMED AT PREVENTING CRISIS
Investment in social protection must be considered a part of the market Social protection
programs make market fluctuations less devastating to those who fall victim to them. They
also have the practical effect of increasing the flexibility and range of options for corrective
economic policies. Immediate protection of the poor and vulnerable is relatively cheap.
Protecting consumption levels is feasible if there is the political will to do so and provided
there are well defined targeting instruments and low cost ways of administering them Existing
programs should be protected from budget cuts during the cnsis Vulnerable groups should
be protected in crises especially from the punitive effects of contractionary fiscal and
monetary policies The poor would be benefited by stronger implementation of structural
reforms, such as ending monopolistic marketing practices for staple goods
Long-term economic and social policies need to take into account both absolute and
relative poverty, and should be based on a clear sense of social justice and equity
Basic social services, especially for vulnerable and poor groups, should be maintained
dunng a crisis by taking a rights-based approach that guarantees minimum services for all.
The compact 20/20 provides a basis for achieving this. Employment, of course, is the most
effective means of empowering those affected by a crisis. Policies should create social safety
nets that mitigate the short-run impact, including: employment insurance, especially in
formal and urban areas, public works; retraining employees; addressing the special needs
of migrant workers; and adoption of gender-sensitive policies. Budget deficits should be
permitted and designed to finance such social and economic protection programs
Govemance is a powerful window for opportunity Governance-related issues, criticized
as the cause of the crisis, have been the sub)ect of many debates However, these issues
also provide a political window of opportunity for instituting long-term solutions.
First, communications media should be used to inform public and particular groups
about a cnsis and how to deal with it, to ensure a balanced response. The more government
is subject to the demands and expectations of a well-informed public, the more likely it is to
respond effectively to the social impact of cnses Moreover, crisis management is greatly
complicated by false rumors and misinformation, which can lead to panic hoarding, artificial
shortages of basic goods, and other kinds of counterproductive behavior If communities
are to be empowered to deal with cnses, they must have accurate and timely information.
Second, it is important to monitor the human development consequences of the crisis.
In the Philippines, UNDP and the World Bank are supporting the implementation of a pilot
nationwide Annual Poverty Indicators Survey to improve the timeliness and quality of
available information about the country's poverty situation and the effectiveness of the
Government's anti-poverty programs. A Community Based Poverty Information System is
being put in place in Philippine communities as a tool for community empowerment.



T Jones Sustainable Development New Milestones for Asia  221
Third, govemance reform is vital to a long-term and preventive response based on
equity and justice. UNDP is emphasizing the need for basic improvements in the following
key areas:
* judicial reform and the rule of law. In the Philippines, dialogues are being promoted
between lustices and civil society, local govemment units, and media;
* greater transparency and accountability, both in the public and corporate worlds;
* a rights-based approach guaranteeing free participation in the decisionmaking process
through elections, trade unions, local government, civil society organizations, and other
participatory approaches; and
* promotion of global and regional public goods, and ensuring adequate developing
country participation in these processes.
Appropriate policies, owned by those whose lives they affect, require a governance
reform process based on access, participation, transparency and equity. This is the surest
way to build a "firewall" against the human devastation such crises cause
CONCLUSION
UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, while describing 1999 as the worst year ever for
natural and human made disasters, also emphasized the possibilities of hope and recovery.
As we enter a new century and strive to construct a post-crisis millennium, our greatest
obstacle is complacency. The crisis provides us with windows of opportunity. Let us use
these windows to instill a culture of prevention and preparedness in moving from debate,
into policy, and on to action.



I



1 0           The Vision of a
Social Partnership in Asia
ADB AND THE WORLD BANK'S VISION
OF A NEW SOCIAL PARTNERSHIP IN ASIA
Peter Sullivan (vice-President for Operations in East Asia and the Pacific, Asian Development Bank)
and Mats Karlsson, (Vice-President for External Relations and UN Affairs, the World Bank)
NEW PARTNERS}HPS FOR SOCIAL POLICY AND POVERTY REDUCTION
This publication on the Manila Social Forum has emerged out of a successful and
intensive cooperation between the operational departments of ADB and the World Bank,
supported by their respective Training and Research Institutes, the Asian Development
Bank Institute (ADBI) and the World Bank institute (WBI). The Forum built on an emerging
social policy network in the region that includes the many active external assistance
jagencies.
The Forum invited the directors and decisionmakers of social programs in Asia as
resource speakers so that we could leam from practitioners in govemment, local govemment,
NGOs, the private sector, and civil society about approaches to social policy that have worked
and can work in the Asian context This provided a forward-looking platform to exchange
operationally relevant views and experiences on social policy challenges and opportunities
facing Asia. A central conclusion of the Manila Social Forum is that the work of drawing
appropriate lessons from the Asian economic crisis and translating them into policy terms
has barely begun. In todays fast paced world, the question is when, and not whether,
economic shocks will occur. Therefore, the need for govemments and their partners to take
stock of the lessons leamed and prepare better for future economic shocks is urgent.
The Forum served as an excellent example of close cooperation between two institutions
(the World Bank and ADB) that share the same concerns of sustainable and inclusive
development as well as the overarching aim of poverty reduction. The collaboration
highlighted both similarities and differences: strong common sense of purpose, but also
areas of social development where the institutions have different comparative advantages,
and where the developing country governments have good reasons to choose between
various offers of support. The complexity of poverty, the limited resources available, and the
need for developing countries to make the best use of the relatively expensive money they
get from our loans, all call for more cooperation and more options and choices. ADB and the
World Bank are development institutions, but also banks whose money comes at a cost. By
providing loans rather than grants, costs and the impact of our operations have to be
considered with care. We need the advice of the people, NGOs, the private sector, and
governments (central and local) of our Asian member countries to better design our operations
and address more effectively social policy and poverty.
During the Forum, ADB and the World Bank heard an array of proposals that will guide
future decisions on investments and policy advice. Among the key recommendations are
the folloving:
(i) encourage pro-poor economic growth and a more inclusive labor market in the Asian
and Pacific region;



224     Chapter 10: The Vision of a New Social Partnership in Asia
(ii) promote social protection and social insurance;
(iii) fascilitate new approaches toward rural and urban development to improve living
standards and ensure an income for the poor and middle class;
(iv) enhance the role of the pnvate sector and other stakeholders in social policy and
problems of enterprise reforms, in social public expenditures, and social sector policy
reforms; and
(v) strengthen the operational links between govemance and poverty.
The Forum also provided an opportunity for both Banks to sharpen key features of their
new poverty and social protection strategies Reflecting on the challenges and opportunities
presented by globalization and transition, ADB and the World Bank see a new social policy
agenda as central to their common goal of reducing poverty on a sustainable basis in Asia
and the Pacific.
FIGHTING POVERTY TOGETHER
The new social policy agenda at the beginning of the new millennium calls for innovative
and participatory social development approaches and new forms of working together. We
need to take action that will directly and structurally reduce poverty and improve the social
well being of people in Asia. In the process, we have to make sure that we do not apply a
"one size fits all" approach to poverty reduction, as countries differ in their needs, and so do
social groups. There need to be new ways found to maximize the impact of our loans, as like
all institutions and people, ADB and the World Bank have only limited resources.
The primary responsibility for finding solutions to poverty lies with the countries
themselves. However, social development also requires new efforts for partnership in which
ADB and the World Bank can play a special role. We cannot afford duplication, redundancies,
and conflicts in our work. We will be developing a new level of partnership with member
countries-listening before advising, analyzing before acting, and working together instead
of pushing alone. Together with our partners in Asia, i.e., national and local governments,
the private sector, NGOs and civil society, and external assistance agencies, ADB and World
Bank will take action on these new responsibilities
Short-term Reaction to the Social Crisis
Recent experiences in Asia spotlight three areas needing urgent attention in the short
term. These are the organization and targeting of standby public works programs, better
mechanisms to monitor social spending and programs, and use of different forms of social
funds to reach the most vulnerable groups while hamessing energies of communities and
NGOs.
The Long-term Implications of Globalization for Social Development in Asia
Looking at the longer-term social agenda, there is a need to strengthen the links between
macroeconomic policy and the capacity of countnes to meet their social challenges. One
example is the large proportion of assets of the banking system owned by govemments in
the region. Such expenditure, and subsequent reprivatization of these assets, can have
profound effects on government abilities to pursue social objectives. Equally, international
financial institutions have flagged the need to embrace the complex task of better integrating
social aspects into the consideration of economic matters.
We also need to understand more about labor and its links to poverty reduction. The
role of the private labor market sector is clearly more than just generating jobs through the
formal sector. We need particularly to explore the links between informal sector growth and



P SullivaniM Karlsson: New Partnerships for Social Policy & Poverty Reduction  225
reducing urban poverty. Other parts of society need to develop links with the private sector
and expand its role in education and training as well as in social welfare
But this is not to diminish the role of govemment. We know well that governance is
important in responding to and avoiding another crisis. But we need to look at the specific
measures that underpin good govemance-in particular the rule of law in promoting human
rights, real measures to reduce corruption, and a proper assessment of the benefits of
decentralization and devolution for the poor.
We need to look further at the issue of how, as a partnership, we can more actively
promote social cohesion, and how the promotion and protection of cultures can help foster
effective development outcomes.
WHAT POVERTY REDUCTION MEANS
In late 1999, the World Bank asked 60,000 people around the world what poverty
means for them. Teams from the World Bank and from NGOs gathered voices from women
and men in 60 countries. The answers in these consultations are compelling. The report
concluded: "in today's world there is a hunger among the poor, not only for food, but for
freedom, dignity, voice and choice " A steady source of income is needed but also more than
that: well being means peace of mind and a sense of community.
Three concepts should focus the action for attacking poverty: Social security, opportunity,
and empowerment.
Security, Insecurity is one of the worst elements of poverty. The reality for many women
in the world is constant fear of being beaten in the home The reality for many working
people is fear of violence to and from work. The reality in many communities is that what
used to be a peaceful place is ruined by crime, by dnnking, by fighting And insecunty is
about the fear of tomorrow As an old man in Central Asia said: 'To be well is to know what
will happen to me tomorrow." The fear of unemployment has increased insecurity. Our
social security systems are not strong enough. Weak health can destroy a household, and
trigger a slide down into poverty and social exclusion So we must look at public institutions,
fight corruption, use the resources efficiently for what they are meant for, in short, build
capacity for better governance.
Opportunities: The poor can change their own lives, if they get a chance. They know
how to use the creative strength of the market place to increase their income. That is why
microcredits can have such tremendous effects. But that is also why, when markets are
captured by elite groups who profit, the poor come to distrust the market, when free markets
in reality should be their opportunity. To realize the opportunities, there is a need to care for
the institutions that underpin a market. And people need to know what the rules are, and to
be sure that the rules are respected. The openness revolution going on around the world is
therefore tremendously important. Greater transparency in government is essential. Free
media creates space for public information and debate. Civic organizations are a critical
part of the modern society. And institutions such as ADB and the World Bank must adapt to
the growing segments of societies wanting to share in the information and the design of
projects and programs that affect them. There is also tremendous hope to women around
the world, who organize and demand fairness and equal opportunities. If men were to
understand that also they would have to change, because there is so much to win.
Empowerment Setting forth the goal of realizing opportunity is to say that people need
to be empowered. Education is a key to empowerment: getting all children through school,
allowing drop-outs a chance to come back, giving adults a chance to upgrade and retrain.



226     Chapter 10: The Vision of a New Social Partnership In Asia
We need to release the tremendous talent treasure of people. The struggle against poverty
will not be won in the offices of the world Bank, ADB, or government ministries, but in the
communities, in the streets, and in the villages which are the real front lines
SETrING THE NEW SOCIAL AGENDA SOME LESSONS FROM MANILA
Ang kahiropon ay parang Init Hmndi mo Ito nakikito Nararamdoman mo long ito Para
mo mounawaan ang kohirapon, kailangang maranason mo ito. (Poverty is like heat you
cannot see it; you can only feel it; so to know poverty you have to go through it.)
These were the buming words of a poor woman when participants of the Manila Social
Forum met with the Filipino people in Mandaluyong city's Garden of Hope. This voice is a call
to understand, to engage, and to change. We must learn to see poverty with the eyes of the
poor. Only if we really understand, can we link up and join forces, engage, and fight poverty
with passion and professionalism. We are committed to change the way we work and to
make a difference.



List of
IF                             Participants at the
Manila Social Forum
AUSTRALIA
Ms Julie DELFORCE, Senior Policy Officer, Governance Group, AusAID
Mr. Geoffrey MARKS, Head, Nutrition Program, University of Queensland
Mr. Christopher McDOWELL, University of Wollongong
Mr. Robert McKINNON, Director for Asia Regional Programs, AusAID
BELGIUM
Mr. Theo MEYERS, First Secretary, International Cooperation, Belgian Embassy, Manila
CAMBODIA
Mr. Meng Chuor CHAR, Acting Director, Health, Planning and Information, Ministry of Health
Mr. Bun Rong CHUM, General Director, Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia
Ms. Sochua MU-LEIPER, Minister of Womens and Veterans Affairs
Mr. Yeng VIRAK, Deputy Representative, NGO Forum on Cambodia
CANADA
Ms. Vivien ESCOTT, Head of Aid and Counselor for Development, Canadian Embassy, Manila
Ms. Shamika SIRIMANNE, Economist, International Trade and Finance Branch, Department
of Finance
Mr. Nicolas TOUTOUNGI, Vice-President of Pension Funds, Caisse de Depot et Placement du
Quebec Conseil, Inc.
Ms. Narcisa UMALU, Senior Program Officer, Canadian Embassy, Manila
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Mr. Qunzhou CHEN, Deputy Division Chief, Planning and Finance, Ministry of Labor and
Social Security
Mr. Yifu Justin LIN, Professor, School of Business and Management, Hong Kong/Beijing
Mr. Xiaohua LU, Vice-Secretary General, Beijing Promotion Commission of Brilliant Cause
Mr. Hua XU, Office of Poverty Alleviation and Development
Ms. junmei YANG, Ministry of Finance
Mr. Dezhi ZHANG, Deputy Division Chief, Shanghai Bureau of Labor and Social Security
Mr Lei ZHANG, Vice-Director General, Leading Group on Poverty Alleviation and Development
DENMARK
Mr Steffen WESTERGARD, Head, Social and Labor Market Reform, PLS Consult A/S
FINLAND
Mr. Kyosti SUONOJA, Consultant, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
FRANCE
Mr. Henri ROUX, Counselor for Social Affairs, French Embassy, Singapore
GERMANY
Mr. Claude BODART, Project Manager Famus, German Technical Cooperation (GTZ)
Mr. Erich T. GEIS, Chief Economist, Asia Region, Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau



228     Chapter 11 Appendix
Mr. Ulrich LEFFLER-FRANKE, Consultant, Luso Consult
Mr. Herwig MAYER, Government Advisor, GTZ Manila
Mr Juergen MEYER-GOHDE, Head, Social Policy Department, Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau
Mr Hans-Peter PAULENZ, Director, GTZ Manila
INDONESIA
Mr. Anton Hermanto GUNAWAN, Associate Director, Institute for Economic and Social Research,
Faculty of Economics, University of Indonesia
Mr Emmanuel HARYADI, Director, NGO Microfinance Consortium Bina Swadaya
Ms Hetifah SJAIFUDIAN, Director, ltansparency International, Center for Social Analysis
Mr Sudarno SUMARTO, Researcher, SMERU, World Bank
Mr. Juari SUTRISNO, Head, Multilateral Cooperation, National Economic Planning Agency
Mr. Hidayat SYARIEF, Deputy Chairman, Human Resources Development, BAPPENAS
JAPAN
Mr. Yasuo FUJITA, Japan Bank for Intemational Cooperation
Mr. Junichi HASEGAWA, Deputy Director General, Development Assistance Strategy
Department, Japan Bank for Intemational Cooperation
Mr Michio KAJIWARA, , Operations Strategy Division, Development Assistance Strategy
Department, )apan Bank for International Cooperation
Mr. Akira KAMITOMAI, Alternative Executive Director for Japan, The World Bank
Mr. Rentaro TAMAISHI, Director, Social Development Division, Environment and Social
Development Department, Japan Bank for International Cooperation
KAZAKHSTAN
Ms. Alma SALYKBAYEVA, Head, Department of Extemal Relations, Ministry of Labor and
Social Security
Ms Natalya VERBITSKAYA, Chief, Department of Living Standards, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Natalia ZAITSEVA, Ministry of Economic Affairs
REPUBUC OF KOREA
Mr Woo-Hyun CHO, Dean, The Graduate School of Labor and Industrial Relations,
Soong Sil University
Mr Sang Kyun KIM, Professor, Department of Social Welfare, Seoul National University
Mr. Hyeok Chang KWON, Chief Teaching Assistant, Department of Social Welfare, Seoul
National University
Ms. Po-hi PAK, President, Korean Institute for Social.lnformation and Research
Mr. Hanam PHANG, Director, Research Planning and Coordination, Korea Labor Institute
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Ms. Roza AKNAZAROVA, Chairperson, Social Fund
Ms. Ainura KYPCHAKBAEVA, Director General Savings and Settlements joint-Stock Co.
Mr Melisbek SATYBEKOV, Deputy Head, Organizational Activity Division, Office of the Prime
Minister
LAO PDR
Mr. Ponemek DALALOY, Minister, Ministry of Health
Mr Noy INDAVONG, Vice-Minister, Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
Ms Khemphet PHOLSENA, Acting President, Lao Women's Union



List of Participants at the Manila Social Forum  229
MALAYSIA
Mr. Noor Yacob MUHAMAD, Secretary, Planning and Policy Research Division, Ministry of
Human Resources
MONGOLIA
Mr. Davaadorjiin DELGERTSOGT, Head, Strategic Management, Department Cabinet
Secretariat
Mr. Pagbajabyn NYMADAWA, Social Policy Advisor to the President, Presidents Office
Mr. Sodov SONIN, Minister, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
Ms. Mandal URTNASAN, Project Manager, Save the Children Fund, Mongolia
THE NETHERLANDS
Mr. Theo ARNOLD, Ambassador, Royal Netherlands Embassy, Manila
NEW ZEALAND
Mr Tim MCIVOR, Counselor and Deputy Head of Mission, New Zealand Embassy, Manila
Ms Guia OLMEDO, Brockman-Tyson International
NORWAY
Mr. Asblorn LOVBRAEK, Advisor to the Asian Desk, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
PHILIPPINES
Mr. Florencio ABAD, Chairman, Appropriations Committee, Lower House of the Congress
Mr. Benjamin ABALOS, Mayor, City of Mandaluyong
Ms. Juanita ARMATONG, Former Undersecretary, Department of Finance
Mr. Emesto ARO, Supervisions Labor & Employment Officer, Department of Labor and
Employment
Ms. joy BENUEZA, Philippine Social Institute Federation Free Workers
Mr. Roger BIROSEL, ESM/AUM (Philippine NGO)
Ms Leonor BRIONES, Treasurer and Poverty Advisor to the President, Bureau of lTeasury
Ms Yolanda BUGARIN, Bureau of Rural Workers, Department of Labor
Ms. Lucy CABER, President, Dampa
Ms. Mayo Grace CAOILI, National Economic and Development Authority
Ms. Erlina M. CAPONES, National Economic & Development Authonty
Ms. Tina CLEMENTE, Action for Economic Reforms
Mr. Luis Manuel CORRAL, Executive Director for Political Affairs, Trades Union Congress of
the Philippines
Ms. Karina Constatino DAVID, former Chairperson, Housing and Urban Development
Coordinating Council
Ms. Corazon DEE, Representative, Institute for Housing and Urban Development Studies
Mr. Roberto DE OCAMPO, President, Asian Institute of Management
Ms. Teresita Quintos DELES, Executive Director, Gaston Z. Ortigas Peace Institute
Mr. Emmanuel DIAZ, SZOPAD Social Fund
Mr. Benjamin DIOKNO, Secretary, Department of Budget and Management
Ms. Ana Marie DIZON, Research Association, Urban Poor Associates
Mr. Paul DOMINGUEZ, Country Director, East ASEAN Business Council
Mr. Mauricio DOMOGAN, Mayor of Bagulo City
Mr. Elmer DORADO, Officer in Charge, lTansport Division, National Economic and
Development Authority
Mr. Joseph E. ESTRADA, President, Republic of the Philippines
Ms. Donna GASGONIA, Chairperson, National Anti-Poverty Commission



230      Chapter 11. Appendix
Ms. Teresita GAVINE, SNC
Mr 1. Dominador, Jr. GOMEZ, National Economic and Development Authonty
Ms. Ma Lourdes GONZALES, Senior Labor and Employment Officer, Department of Labor
and Employment
Mr. Roberto JULIAN, Finance Director, Preferred Energy, Inc.
Mr. Julius LAINGLET, BATU
Mr. Roel LANDINGIN, Financial rTmes
Ms Lucita LAZO, Board of lYustee, HOMENET International, Philippines, and Technology and
Entrepreneurship Associates, Inc
Ms. Cnsanta LEGASPI, Director, Committee on Privatization, Department of Finance
Ms. Patricia UCUANAN, President of Miriam College and President of Asia Pacific Women Watch
Mr Edward LIM, Executive Director, SZOPAD Social Fund
Ms. Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, Vice-President, Republic of the Philippines
Mr. lbarra MALONZO, NFL-ARD
Ms. Malou MANGAHAS, Member, Board of Editors, Philippine Center for Investigative
Journalism
Ms. Grace MERCADO, NGO Forum on the ADB
Mr. Horacio MORALES, Secretary, Department of Agrarian Reform
Ms. Ana Marie NEMENZO, National Anti-Poverty Commission
Ms Maribel ORTIZ, Chief Economist, Social Security System
Mr. Aquilino PIMENTEL, Senator, Senate of the Philippines
Mr. Leodegardo PRUNA, Professor and Chair, MM Program, Graduate School, Tarlac State
University
Ms Mary RACELIS, President, Community Organizers Multiversity
Ms. Roselle RASAY, Office of Representative Roxas, House of Representatives
Ms. Celia REYES, Research Fellow, Philippine Institute of Developmental Studies
Mr. Edmundo, Jr REYES, Congressman, House of Congress
Mr. Jessy ROBREDO, Chairman of the Bicol Regional Development Council and former Mayor
of Naga City
Mr. Isagani SERRANO, Senior Vice-President, Philippine Rural Reconstruction Movement
Ms. Corazon SOLIMAN, Vice-President, CO-TRAIN (Community Organizers Multidiversity)
Ms Karen TANADA, Board Member, Women's Action Network for Development
Ms Ofelia TEMPLO, Assistant Director General, National Economic and Development Authonty
Ms. Susanita TESIORNA, Informal Sector Coalition of the Philippines
Mr. Josefino TORRES, Director, Bureau of Rural Workers, Department of Labor and
Employment
Ms. Ma. Gisela VELASCO, Philippine Business for Social Progress
Ms Luisita VENDIOLA, Advisor, Sama
Mr Felizardo, Jr VIRTUCIO, National Economic and Development Authonty
SINGAPORE
Ms. Chabo CHING, Director, Economic and Social Policy Department, International Conference
of Free Trade Unions, Asia Pacific Regional Office (ICFrU-APRO)
SOLOMON ISLANDS
Mr Abraham NANTOKARI, Department of Development Planning
SPAIN
Ms. Maite IRURZON, Researcher, Institute of Development Studies



List of Participants at the Manila Social Forum  231
SWITZERLAND
Ms. Marian BOQUIREN, Program Manager, Swisscontact
Mr. Georg CAPOL, Project Manager, Urban Planning
Mr. Paul WEIJERS, Resident Representative, Swisscontact
TAIIIUSTAN
Mr Khoudoberdi KHOUKNAZAROV, Minister, Ministry of Labor
Mr. Alisher MIRZOEV, Chief Expert, Department of Economic Reforms and Foreign
Investments, President's Office
THAILAND
Mr. Somsook BOONYABANCHA, Urban Community Development Office
Ms. Chuachan CHOONGSAITYO, Senior Advisor on the Systems Education, Office of the
National Education Commission
Ms. Khun Suwanee KHAMMAN, Director, Social Projects Division, National Economic and
Social Development Board
Ms. Medhi KRONGKAEW, Director, Institute of East Asian Studies, Thammasat University
Mr. Anek NAKABUTARA, Executive Director, Social Fund Office
Mr. Nontaphon NIMSOMBOON, Auditor General, Government of Thailand
Mr. Narong PETCHPRASERT
Ms. Amara PONGSAPICH, Director, Social Research Institute
Mr. Siwa SIRISOAWALUK, Director, Bureau of Policy and Planning, Office of Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Interior
UNITED KINGDOM
Mr. Ian GOUGH, Professor of Social Policy, University of Bath, England
Ms. Brenda KILLEN, Senior Economist, Asia Regional Economic Policy Department,
Department for Intenational Development
UNITED STATES
Mr. John BLOMQUIST, Consultant to the Asian Development Bank
Mr. David DAWE, International Rice Research Institute
Mr. Roland DE MARCELWS, Financial Economist, Bureau of Economic Affairs, US State
Department
Mr. Gil DY-LIACCO, Program Resources Management Office, USAID
Ms Amy DOMINI, Chief Executive Officer, Domini Funds
Ms. Nancy KATZ, Intemational Economist, US Treasury
Mr. Richard NELSON, US Embassy, Manila
Ms. Angelita OBMASCA, Program Director, The Pragma Corporation
Ms. Jennifer OBMASCA, Asia Manager, The Pragma Corporation
Mr. Hal PANDER, American Center for International Labor Solidarity
Ms. Rachel QUERO, Managing Director, DAI Philippines
Mr. Paul REID, Director, Office of Development Finance, State Department
Mr. Stephen ROOD, Asia Foundation
UZBEKISTAN
Ms Klara DJUMAMURATOVA, Chairperson, Business Womens Association
Mr. Bakhtiyar KHAMIDOV, Deputy Pnme Minister, Cabinet of Ministers
Mr. Hayrullo MAUIKOV, Senior Economist, Department for Monitoring and External Debt,
Ministry of Finance



232     Chapter 11 AppendLx
Mr. Nariman MANNAPBEKOV, Division Chief, Cooperation with International Financial
Institutions, Cabinet of Ministers
Mr. Aleksandr NAVATONIY, Head, Department of Social Development, Ministry of Labor
VIET NAM
Mr Nhu Hai HO, Deputy Director, Institute of Labor, Science and Social Affairs, Ministry of
Labor, Invalids, and Social Affairs
Mr. Hong Thai LEE, Acting Director, Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ministry
of Planning and Investments
Mr. Viet Son NGUYEN, Pnncipal Project Officer, ADB Division, Foreign Department, State Bank
of Viet Nam
ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (ASEAN)
Mr. Kah Sin CHO, Assistant Director, ASEAN Secretariat
EUROPEAN COMMISSION
Mr. Alistair MACDONALD, Deputy Head, Directorate General for External Relations, European
Commission (ASEM Donors)
EUROPEAN UNION
Mr Reynaldo CANCIO, Economist, European Union, Delegation of the European
Commission in the Philippines
Mr Henrik OSTERBY, Economic Counselor, European Union, Delegation of the European
Commission in the Philippines
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMISSION FOR ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Mr. Gonzalo JURADO, Senior Social Development Officer, Social Development Division,
ESCAP
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION
Mr lftikhar AHMED, Resident Representative, Intemational Labour Organization - Jakarta
Ms Anne DROUIN, Social Security Specialist, International Labour Organization - Bangkok
Mr. Moazam MAHMOOD, Labor Market Policy specialist, International Labour Organization,
Bangkok
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
Mr Peter S. HELLER, Deputy Director for Fiscal Affairs, International Monetary Fund
TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL
Mr. Tunku Abdul AZIZ, Vice-Chairman, Ttansparency International-Asia, and member of
the Kuala Lumpur Society for Transparency and Integrity
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
Mr Terrence JONES, Resident Representative, United Nations Development Programme,
Philippines
Mr Clark SORIANO, United Nations Development Programme, Philippines
UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND
Mr. Gamini ABEYSEKERA, Thailand Country Director, UNICEF Office for Thailand
Mr Nigel FISHER, Regional Director for South Asia, UNICEF Regional Office, East Asia and
Pacific



List of Participants at the Manila Social Forum  233
Mr. Kul GAUTAM, Deputy Regional Director, UNICEF Regional Office, East Asia and Pacific
Ms. Carroll LONG, UNICEF East Asia and Pacific
Mr. Wilfredo NUGUI, Program Officer, UNICEF Philippines
Mr. lose A. ONGKIKO, Program Officer, UNICEF Philippines
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
Mr. Dorjsuren BAYARSAIKHAN, World Health Organization, Westem Pacific Regional Office,
NPRO
Mr. Stephen FABRICANT, World Health Organization
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Mr. Armin BAUER, Economist (Poverty Reduction), SPD
Mr. John BLOMQUIST, Consultant
Ms. Adeluisa BURGOS, Consultant
Mr. Tadao CHINE), President, ADB
Mr. William FRASER, Manager, AEEH
Mr. Kus HARDIANTE, Health Specialist, AEEH
Mr. Edward HAUGH, Manager, AWEH
Ms. Caroline HEIDER, Poverty Reduction Specialist, SPPR
Ms. Fukuko INOUE, Training Officer, BPHR - TD
Ms. Josephine JAVIER, Ttaineer/Administrator, BPHR - TD
Ms. Anita KELLES-VIITANEN, Manager, SOCD
Mr. John LINTJER, Vice-President, Finance and Administration
Ms. Zuleikha MULSID, Consultant
Mr. Shoji NISHIMOTO, Director, SPD
Ms. Isabel ORTIZ, Economist, Planning and Policy, SPPR
Mr. Manual PERLAS, Senior Project Economist, AEEH
Mr. Ernesto PERNIA, Senior Economist, EDAN
Mr. Brahm PRAKASH, Lead Economist, PWOD
Ms. Susanna PRICE, Social Development Specialist, SOCD
Mr. Karti SANDILYA, Manager, SPPR
Mr. Salvatore SCHIlAVO-CAMPO, Senior Advisor for Govemance and Public Management, SPO
Mr. K E SEETHARAM, Evaluation Specialist, OEED
Mr. Asad SHAH, Manager, AEWU
Mr. Myoung-Ho SHIN, Vice-President, West
Mr. Hans-Juergen SPRINGER, Deputy Director, AEOD
Mr. Peter SULLIVAN, Vice-President, East
Ms. Anne SWEETSER, Social Development Specialist, SOCD
Mr Geert VAN DER LINDEN, Director, PED
Mr. Jan VAN HEESWIJK, Chief, IRM
Ms. Madeleine VARKAY, Programs Officer
Ms. Christine WALLICH, Director, IWD, and Head of PSG
Mr. Clay WESCOTT, Senior Public Administration Specialist
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INSTITUTE
Ms. Yidan WANG, Training and Methods Specialist, ADBI
THE WORLD BANK
Ms. Juanita AMATONG, Consultant, World Bank Office, Manila, WBOM
Mr Richard ANSON, Senior Rural Development Specialist, WBOM
Mr. Mark BAIRD, Country Director, Indonesia



234      Chapter 11. Appendix
Mr. !ayshree BALACHANDER, Senior Human Resources Development Specialist, WBOM
Mr. McDonald BENJAMIN, Financial Sector Specialist, WBOM
Mr. Vinay BHARGAVA, Country Director, Philippines
Mr. Bhuvan BHATNAGAR, Social Scientist, Environmental and Social Development Sector
Unit, World Bank, East Asia and Pacific Region, WB-EAP
Mr Christopher CHAMBERLAIN, Principal Operations Officer, World Bank Office, Bangkok
Mr. John CLARK, Principal Social Scientist, Social Policy Secretariat, WB-EAP
Ms. Myla Grace DE GUZMAN, Team Assistant, WBOM
Mr. Joseph DELFICO, Senior Pension Specialist, World Bank Institute
Mr. Paula DONOVAN, Director, Liaison Office, Singapore
Mr Zafer ECEVIT, Director, Environment and Social Development Sector Unit, WB-EAP
Ms. Melissa FOSSBERG, Communications Associate, External Affairs Unit, WB-EAP
Ms Leonora GONZALES, Extemal Affairs Officer, WBOM
Mr. Hongjoo HAHM, Assistant to the Vice-President, WB-EAP
Mr Leo HAKIM, Consultant, WBOM
Mr. Tornu HASHIMOTO, Urban Planner, WBOM, WB-EAP
Mr. Robert HOLZMANN, Chair, Social Protection Sector Board, WB-Human Development
Network
Mr. Gregorio IMPAVIDO, Financial Analyst
Mr. Emmanuel JIMENEZ, Sector Director
Mr. Mats KARLSSON, Vice-President, WB-External Affairs
Mr. Masahiro KAWAI, Chief Economist, WB-EAP
Ms. Fidelis LIM, Team Assistant, WBOM, WB-EAP
Mr. Jacques LOUBERT, Sector Manager, Finance, WB-EAP
Ms Katherine MARSHALL, Director, Social Policy and Governance, EAP
Ms Elena MARTINEZ, Team Assistant, WBOM
Mr Alberto MUSALEM, Advisor
Ms. May OLALIA, Consultant
Ms. Kathrin PLANGEMANN, Young Professional, WB-EAP
Mr. Murray PROCTOR, Public Sector Management Specialist, WB-EAP
Ms. Ma. Theresa QUINONES, Operations Officer, Philippines Office
Mr Michelle RIBOUD, Manager Human Development, WBI
Mr. Julian SCHWEITZER, Director, Strategy and Operations, WB-EAP
Mr. Jean Michel SEVERINO, Regional Vice-President, WB-EAP
Mr. jayasankar SHIVAKUMAR, Country Director for Thailand, WB-EAP
Mr Andrew STEER, Country Director for Viet Nam, WB-EAP
Ms Araceli TRIA, Team Assistant, WBOM, WB-EAP
Mr. Keshav VARMA, Sector Manager, Urban Development, WB-EAP
Mr. Louis-Charles VIOSSAT, Senior Governance Expert, WB-EAP
Ms. Sonya WOO, junior Associate, WB-EAP



I









From   to 12 November 1999, ADB in cooperation with the World Bank hosted
thllManila Social Forum. This special event brought together about 250
F    ppeople from niany Asian and other countries. Participants included high-
ranking and operatio6hal'members of governments, and leaders from civil society
and the p'rifate sector, academia, and the international donoi community. They
engaged in an active dialogue at the Forum to help define and set action agendas
for a new social policy agenda in Asia.
The book is distilled from the presentations and contributions of the practitioners
and policymakers who participated in the Forum. It tackles issues such as the long-
term implications of globalization in East and Central Asia: the social impact of
the Asian financial crisis and its implications for new vulnerable groups: changing
conditions of rural and urban poverty: the need for affordable and targeted social
safety nets; cha'llenges of social sector reforms particularly those arising from
decentralizing public expenditures and management; public-private partnerships
and corporate responsibilities for better social policy: good governance for
poverty reduction: and the regional dimensions of poverty including the role of
institutions such as ADB and the World Bank to reduce poverty in Asia.
This book is also about partnership. It results from an important effort of ADB and
the World Bank to join forces and work closely together to meet the challenges for
human development that face Asia today. The content reflects the rededication of
the development community to the new social policy and poverty agenda for East
and Central Asia for the 21st century.
Close to 900 million Asians live on less than a dollar a day. These people have
missed out on Asia's boom years. Their plight is simply unacceptable. We can rid
the world of this scourge if we work together. We need to give hope to those who
suffer by listening to them, giving them opportunities, and empowering them to
help themselves. This is what development is all about. It is what drives the work
of ADB and the World Bank.
ISBN: 971-561-300-4
Publication Stock No.; 040600
Printed ih the Philippines



