Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N027 CHA
Interim Fund  Development Credit Agreement
(National Rural Water Supply Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of  
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors of  International Development Association
Dated August 14, 1997
Interim Fund Credit Number N027 CHA
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
AGREEMENT, dated August 14, 1997, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator 
(the Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Administrator pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the Association adopted on 
June 26, 1996.  
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution, the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and by Hebei Province, 
Hubei Province, Jiangxi Province, Nei Mongol Autonomous Region and Yunnan Province 
(the Project Provinces) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
Page  2
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Project Provinces the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Administrator and the Project Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement; 
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit and Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund” Credit and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, number 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as follows: 
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of 
the Board of Governors of the Association, 
adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on which the Interim 
Fund Credit 
was approved pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution; and “Participating 
Countries” means, collectively, all such countries;  
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision 
of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.” 
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall mean the International Development Association acting in its own 
capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall 
have been suspended with respect  to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any 
time, the Administrator 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the 
Interim Fund 
Credit will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time, the Administrator determines, 
with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Interim Fund 
Credit during the procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower 
having taken timely and Appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator 
to 
Page  3
remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Administrator 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the procedures 
set forth or 
referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account, 
the Administrator may, by notice 
to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the 
Interim Fund Credit shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings wherever used in this Agreement: 
(a)
“AWP” means the consolidated annual work plan for the implementation of 
the Project in each calendar year, prepared by NPO (as hereinafter defined) on the 
basis of, among others, annual work plans prepared by the Project Provinces (as 
hereinafter defined), and including resettlement inventories and action plans as may 
be required by the Resettlement Policy Framework (as hereinafter defined), and 
approved by the Administrator pursuant to paragraph 1(c) of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement;  
(b)
“CPOs” means the project offices in the Project Counties (as hereinafter 
defined) referred to in Part A of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement (as hereinafter 
defined); and “CPO” means any of the CPOs; 
(c)
“Category” and Categories” means one or more categories set out in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Design Manual” means the “China Rural Water Supply Engineering and 
Construction Technical Manual” containing technical standards for the design of rural 
water supply investments, dated January 1989, and referred to in paragraph 1(b) of 
Part B of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be revised by agreement 
between the Borrower, the Administrator and the Project Provinces; 
(e)
“National Program” means Part C.1(a) of the Project; 
(f)
“NPO” means the National Project Office referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(g)
“PPOs” means the project offices in the Project Provinces, referred to in 
Part A of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and “PPO” means any of the PPOs; 
(h)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Administrator and the Project Provinces as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; 
(i)
“Project Counties” means the counties in each Project Province selected 
by agreement among the Borrower, the Administrator and the Project Provinces to 
participate in the Project; 
(j)
“Project Provinces” means the following Provinces and Autonomous Region 
of the Borrower and any successor thereto:  Hebei Province, Hubei Province, Jiangxi 
Province, Nei Mongol Autonomous Region and Yunnan Province; and “Project Province” 
means any of the Project Provinces; 
(k)
“Provincial Parts of the Project” means Parts A, B, C.1(b) and C.2 of the 
Project; 
(l)
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the “Policy Framework for 
Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons” of April 
Page  4
30, 1997, approved by the Borrower and the Project Provinces, which sets out the 
policies and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation for 
the implementation of the Project, and the reporting and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure compliance with such policies and procedures; 
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(n)
“Yuan” and “Y” mean the currency of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty one million four hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 51,400,000).  
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2007 and ending June 
15, 2032.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2017 
Page  5
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by\0cthe Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim 
Fund Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above 
falling six months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the 
Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: 
(i)
shall carry out Part C.1(a) of the Project (the National Program) 
with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, 
financial and engineering 
standards and practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
such Part of the Project; and 
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the 
Project Provinces to perform all of 
their respective 
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the 
Project 
Provinces to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit  to be 
taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project or cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  6
(c)
For the purpose of implementing the Provincial Parts of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit available to 
each Project Province on terms and conditions and in accordance with arrangements 
satisfactory to the Administrator, which shall include the following:
(i)
the amount so made available to each Project Province shall be the 
sum of: (A) 
amounts allocated and withdrawn from the following 
Categories: (I) for Hebei 
Province, Category (1)(a); (II) for 
Hubei Province, Category (1)(b); (III) for 
Jiangxi Province, 
Category (1)(c); (IV) for Nei Mongol Autonomous Region, 
Category (1)(d); and (V) for Yunnan Province, Category (1)(e); and (B) other 
amounts allocated to and withdrawn on account of said Project Province’s 
respective part of the Provincial Parts of the Project. 
(ii)
the Project Provinces shall pay to the Borrower a commitment 
charge at a rate 
equal to one-half of one percent (0.5%), on 
their respective portion of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit not withdrawn from time to time; 
(iii)
the Project Provinces shall pay to the Borrower a service charge 
at the rate 
of three percent (3%) per annum on their respective 
portion of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time; and  
(iv)
the Project Provinces shall repay their respective portions of the 
proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit over a period of seventeen 
(17) years, including a 
five (5) year grace period, in 
dollars in an amount equivalent at the time of 
withdrawal 
from time to time of the respective SDR amounts from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project 
objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Administrator hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Provincial Parts of the Project shall be carried out by the Project Provinces pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the National Program of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
Page  7
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; 
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Administrator shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement; and 
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that any Project Province will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination 
Designation of Administrator
Page  8
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by each Project Province, and is legally binding 
upon each Project Province in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of the date notified by the Administrator to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association and Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
Page  9
as Administrator of the interim trust fund
established with funds contributed
by certain members of 
International Development Association
pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors 
of International Development Association
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of 
   the Interim Fund
   Credit Allocated
  % of
    (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   SDR Equivalent) 
to be Financed
(1)
Works under Parts A, 
B.3 and C.1(b) of the 
Project in:
(a) Hebei Province
3,500,000  
33%
(b) Hubei Province
5,700,000   
42%
(c) Jiangxi Province
5,000,000   
42%
(d) Nei Mongol Autonomous
3,700,000   
45%
    Region
(e) Yunnan Province
3,400,000   
36%
(2)
Goods for Parts A, B
      24,800,000   
 
100% of foreign
and C.1(b) of the Project:                      expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), 75% of
local expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
  300,000      
100%
for Parts B.1 and 
C.1(b) of the Project
(4)
Training and study tours   2,000,000            100% 
for Parts A, B and C.1 
of the Project
(5)
Incremental Costs
        200,000  
100%
(6)
Unallocated
      2,800,000 
100%
TOTAL
     51,400,000 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  10
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Costs” means the cost of travel, accommodation, 
meals and printing of survey materials incurred by CPOs in connection with the 
carrying out of surveys under Parts B.1 and C.2 of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, and
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category 1, unless the AWP for 1998 
has been approved by the Administrator, in accordance with paragraph 1(c) of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each;
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $2,500,000 equivalent each and 
force account;
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 
less than $100,000 and $50,000 equivalent, respectively; and
(d)
training and Incremental Costs;  all under such terms and conditions as 
the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve access to safe 
water for the rural population and the health and sanitation practices of the rural 
poor in the Project Provinces through: (i) the construction of safe water supply 
systems; (ii) the provision of related health education; (iii) the provision of 
sanitation information and demonstration facilities; and (iv) the strengthening of 
water supply, sanitation and health education management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Water Supply 
Construction of piped water supply systems, rain water collectors, wells with 
handpumps and related facilities under investment programs in the Project Counties.
Part B:
Sanitation and Health Education 
1.
Carrying out of a study of the hygiene practices of the population in the 
Project Counties, through the provision of consultants’ services. 
2.
Improving water related health and sanitation practices of the rural population, 
through provision of health education to:   
(a)
key community leaders and health practitioners at the provincial, county 
and village levels; and 
(b)
the population of the Project Counties. 
Page  11
3.
Construction of demonstration household and village school sanitation facilities 
in villages in the Project Counties.
Part C:
Project Management
1.
Strengthening the management, design, supervision, monitoring and reporting 
capacity of:  (a) the National Project Office, and (b) project offices in the Project 
Provinces and Project Counties, through the provision of consultants’ services, 
training, equipment and the carrying out of works. 
2.
Carrying out of baseline and follow-up surveys in villages of the Project 
Counties to measure and evaluate access to safe water as well as sanitation and health 
behavior and practices, through the provision of consultants’ services.  
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the NPO staffed with qualified personnel in adequate 
number and with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Administrator which 
shall include the following:
(a)
the NPO shall be responsible for the overall coordination and supervision 
of Project execution; 
(b) 
the NPO shall appraise all investments under the investment programs 
under Part A of the Project with an estimated value of more than Yuan 3,000,000, and 
review in particular the quality of the engineering and financial preparation and the 
overall design and feasibility of such proposed investments;
(c)
the NPO, shall by November 30 of each year, starting in 1997, prepare and 
furnish to the Administrator for its review and prior approval, an AWP to be carried 
out during the following calendar year.
(d)
the NPO shall design, analyze and consolidate the outputs resulting from 
the carrying out by the Project Provinces of Parts B.1 and C.2 of the Project and 
shall furnish such consolidated outputs to the Administrator for review and comments 
by: (i) January 1, 1998 for baseline surveys carried out by the Project Provinces in 
pursuance of Part B.5 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and (ii) April 30, 1998 
for hygiene practices studies carried out by Project Provinces in pursuance of Part 
B.6 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
2.
Any revision to an AWP shall be submitted to the Administrator for its review 
and prior approval. 
3.
The Resettlement Policy Framework shall not be modified or revised without the 
prior concurrence of the Administrator.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
2 to the Project Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, by March 15 and August 31 of each year, starting August 
31, 1998, for the immediately preceding six (6) month period ending December 31 and 
June 30, respectively (and in the case of the first report to be submitted in 
pursuance of this paragraph (b), for the two immediately preceding six (6) month 
periods) a consolidated semi-annual report integrating the information provided in the 
reports submitted by the PPOs pursuant to paragraph 7 of Part B of Schedule 1 to the 
Page  12
Project Agreement;
(c)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator and 
furnish to the Administrator by March 15, 2000, a consolidated report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph 
(a) of this paragraph 4, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Administrator, by such later date as the Administrator 
shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (c) of this paragraph 4, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Except as provided in Part C.2 below, works estimated to cost equivalent of 
$400,000 or more per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works/ Force Account
Works estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3)  
domestic contractors with the capability and resources to effectively carry out the 
contract,  and for contracts estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract from three (3) contractors from at least two different counties, in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
Page  13
agreement acceptable to the Administrator, and relevant drawings, where applicable. 
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for 
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully. As an alternative to the procedure set out in this paragraph 2 and 
without prejudice to the abovementioned aggregate amount of $60,000,000 equivalent, 
works that meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and costing less 
than $20,000 equivalent per assignment, may, with the Administrator’s prior agreement, 
be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of  said paragraph 
3.8, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,000,000.   
3.
National Shopping 
Goods for Part B.2 of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with Part B of Section I of this Schedule, and (ii) the first contract for works under 
Part A of the Project for each Project County but only if such contract is procured in 
accordance with Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first contract for goods under Part B.2 of the 
Project for each Project Province, (ii) the first contract for works under Part A of 
the Project for each Project County but only if such contract is procured in 
accordance with Part C.2 of Section I of this Schedule, and (iii) a maximum of ten 
(10) contracts per year for works procured in accordance with Part C.2 of Section I of 
this Schedule and selected  at the discretion of the Administrator in addition to the 
works contracts that are subject to prior review in pursuance of paragraph 2(b)(ii) of 
this Part D, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor under 
shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Administrator a report on the 
comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Administrator a 
copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants 
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Page  14
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part C.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part C.1 of the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, shall, with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for the study of hygiene practices and procurement document review 
under Parts B.1 and C.1 of the Project, respectively, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III.
Eligibility Restriction 
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Page  15
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only firms that are registered or incorporated in, and individuals and personnel who 
are nationals of, Participating Countries shall be eligible to compete for services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 15,000,000.  
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall 
specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account  such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account  for eligible 
expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from 
the 
Interim Fund Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
Page  16
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account  (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
