                             PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC          OF CHINA

                       SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program
              Proposed Amendments to Eight Development Credit Agreements

                      Environmental Technical Assistance (Cr.2522-CHA)
                     Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation (Cr.26 16-CHA)
                         Yangtze Basin Water Resources(Cr.2710-CHA)
                          Southwest Poverty Reduction (Cr.2744-CHA)
                         National Rural Water Supply (Cr.N0270-CHA)
                              Basic Health Services (Cr.3075-CHA)
                    Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (Cr.3233-CHA)
                               Enterprise Reform (Cr.3271-CHA)      '

                                        A. Background

1      The SARS Crisis.      As of June 5, 2003, there were 5,339 confirmed cases of Severe
Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in China resulting in 336 deaths. The Hong Kong Special
Autonomous Region and the rest of China accounted for 86% of all SARS infections and 80% of
all reported deaths globally. Beijing alone reported 2,522 probable cases. While the number of
probable cases has decreaseddramatically, at one point there were more than 150 new cases
daily and this pattern continued for several weeks. The most pressing challenge, now that the
epidemic appearsto be on the decline in Beijing and elsewhere, is, as stressedby the World
Health Organization (WHO), to make a major effort to eradicate SARS in China if possible. Or,
if SARS turns out to be an endemic disease,to ensure that any future outbreaks are effectively
monitored and controlled. It is especially important to make sure the epidemic does not establish
a foothold in rural areas,which would be far less well equipped to cope with outbreaks.

2      SARS appearsto have originated in Guangdong last fall, then spreadto Hong Kong and
in turn to the rest of China.    Guangdong, Beijing, Shanxi, Inner Mongolia, Tianjin, Hebei,
Guangxi Henan and Sichuan Provinces/Autonomous Regions have accounted for 98% of the
reported ases. The Government's initial responsewas not as sufficient as it could h.avebeen, in
         C
part becausethis was a new disease and in part becausethe health system, "had not been well
prepared for emergencies and the emergency control system was comparatively weak." Initially,
the Ministry of Health (MOH) did not put into place a "timely and unified system for collecting
and reporting information" on SARS cases. This was made more difficult by having hospitals
managed by different jurisdictional authorities. However, once it became clear that the epidemic
could only be addressedthrough wide-spread public awareness and a coordinated program for
containment, the Government acted aggressively in taking appropriate measures. It introduced a
massive campaign to addressthe SARS epidemic in places like Guangdong and Beijing, which
have been hardest hit.    Also, strict isolation, containment, public awareness and preventive
measureswere introduced in neighboring provinces and throughout many regions country-wide.
The resulting sharp decline in confirmed cases in recent weeks is indicative of the major
successesthat the Government has achieved with such policies.

3      The SARS epidemic has at the same time placed in stark relief the general lack of
preparedness of China to cope with a rapidly moving infectious disease crisis despite the

country's size and considerable resources.          It has demonstrated that there are significant
deficiencies in the health system's ability both to detect, and mount timely responsesto, new
infectious diseasethreats.

4        Potential Impacts.    Given the many unknowns about this disease, it has threatenedthe
general health of the populace and, if not brought under full control, could jeopardize the hard
won economic progress that the country has achieved in recent years. There are also global
implications due to the mobility of individuals and China's growing involvement in the world
economy.      The virus    has appeared in more than 20 countries or autonomous regions, most
prominently in Singapore, Hong Kong, Vietnam, Canadaandmore recently Taiwan, China.

5        Preliminary indications suggest that with the deepening of the epidemic's impact in
Beijing and the implications nationwide, China's growth rate has been affected in the range of
0.5 percent or more. For the region as a whole, the World Bank estimates that the direct impact
effect of SARS could reduce East Asian growth by about 0.4-0.5%, principally through reduced
demand for the service industries that rely on face to face human interactions, such as tourism,
transportation, hotels, restaurants and retail sales. Moreover, the multiplier      and other ripple
effects of falling employment and lower consumer and investor confidence could entail an even
greater economic impact.         Heightened uncertainty and the sudden slowdown in domestic
consumer spending will likely have a pronounced effect in slowing or delaying fixed investment
in the region in the near term. Therefore, although in principle a temporary shock, SARS has
been China's most compelling recent challenge and a major concern for the senior leadership.

6.       The vulnerable groups and rural poor are also potentially at risk. China's poverty
numbers have continued to fall in recent years underpinned by better rural income gains,
supported in part by higher primary commodity prices. So far SARS has been mostly found in
urban centers. However, unless brought to a halt, the epidemic could spread to the western
provinces and other rural areasthat are more vulnerable to this kind of epidemic. The relatively
poor public hygiene and health care infrastructure in the countryside could mean a rapid spread
of the infection in rural areas. Thus, high level officials have indicated that particular efforts
must be made to guard against outbreaks in rural areas. Some observershave even argued that if
the virus were to penetratethe countryside, it could prove to be a medical time bomb even bigger
than AIDS, which has infected more than one million people.

7.       It is essential therefore that steps be taken to completely control the disease and prevent
any potential spread to rural areas. This has meant identifying and implementing technically
sound containment practices and putting these in place in major urban areasand urban centersin
the provinces. In the near-term, the focus will need to be on strengthening/building those basic
institutional capacities that are essential for bringing to an end the recent emergency situation.
Over the medium-term, there are a number of systemic issues in the health system that will need
to be addressedto ensure that similar epidemics can be avoided in the future. Especiallv so as
some experts believe it is possible that SARS coulld reoccur in the colder months of the coming
fall .

8        Government% Emergency Response and Overall Strategy. The Government of China
(GOC)      has   outlined   the   following    overall  approaches for    combating    the  disease:

(i) strengthening the accountability of Government; (ii) strengthening SARS surveillance and
dissemination of information; (iii) strengthening supervision and inspection; (iv) supporting
SARS prevention in the middle and western regions, especially in rural areas; (v) working on
legislation on how to respond to public health emergencies; and (vi) securing medical and
general supplies. In developing their approach,the GOC has worked closely with the WHO and
the U.S. Centers for Disease Prevention and Control (CDC) as well as with the SARS designated
laboratories worldwide.

9        Leading groups for SARS prevention and control have been set up at the provincial level.
Central Government has committed to providing medical financial assistanceto the provinces so
that the poor are guaranteed accessto SARS treatment and care. Central Government is also
supporting the provinces to strengthen supervision and evaluation of local responsesto SARS.
Many provinces and cities have already decided to invest additional resources to contain the
epidemic. However, preparednessto face the challenge varies by province and some are more
vulnerable. Although the Government has issued guidelines on SARS surveillance and case
reporting, implementation varies by province and has been impeded by the lack of integration of
the health system.

10       Government has also taken urgent steps to put in place containment mechanisms, most
notably in Beijing. This has involved isolation and quarantinepolicies, screening procedures and
examination equipment at airports and train/bus stations, and regularly disinfecting major social
and health centers. However, given the scale and speedwith which actions have neededto occur,
some of these preventive measures have been inevitably more beneficial and efficient than
others.

11.      The Government has prepared a comprehensive national SARS Prevention and Control
Strategy that has guided its overall program of responseto the epidemic. The development of
this Strategy has been influenced heavily by the experience accumulated in Beijing and has been
based on close collaboration with the WHO team, which has been strengthened to extend
technical advice to other provinces.      At the same time, priority     expenditure needs for
implementing the Strategy have been estimated.

              B. The Proposed SARS and Infectious DiseasesResponse Program

12       This memorandum requeststhe immediate reallocation of a total of SDR8.1 million (US$ ,
1115million    equivalent) of Credit proceeds under eight operations to support the SARS and
Infectious Diseases ResponseProgram described below (hereafter referred to as the "Program").
In all casesthe reallocations would neither compromise the original objectives nor the economic
viability of the eight projects concerned.

13       The respective Development Credit Agreement for each of the eight operations, listed in
the table which follows,     will be amended to add a new component covering activities to be
carried out under the SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program and to enable Credit
proceeds to be used to fund the activities. For activities that will be carried out by provinces,
agreementswill be entered into with each province for the carrying out of such activities using
the proceeds of the Credit.

      Sector                   Existing Credit                 Credit     Credit Amount as of   Proposed
                                                           Signature Date   May 29,2003       Reallocation




                     Environmental Technical Assistance
  Environment                  (Cr.2522-CHA)               July 16, 1993  50.0       1.1       0.8    1.1
                    Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation
    Rural Dev.                 (Cr.2616-CHA)               June 28,1994   150.0      1.1       0.8    1.1
                       Yangtze Basin Water Resources
      Water                    (Cr.2710-CHA)               July 18, 1995  110.0      0.3       0.2    0.3
                    Southwest Poverty Reduction (Cr.2744-
   Agriculture                      CHA)                   July 18, 1995  200.0      1.2       0.9     1.2
                   National Rural Water Supply (Cr.N0270-
      Water                         CHA)                   Aug. 14, 1997  70.0       1.9       0.6    0.8
                            Basic Health Services
      Health                   (Cr.3075-CHA)               June 12, 1998  85.0      37.7       2.3    3.3
                        Fourth Rural Water Supply and
      Water               Sanitation (Cr.3233-CHA)         Sept. 17, 1999 30.0       12.3      0.6    0.9
  Law and P.A.        Enterprise Reform (Cr.327 l-CHA)     Dec. 30, 1999   5.0       2.9       1.9    2.7
ITotal Reallocation:                                                                         I 8.1 I 11.5 I

14       Rationale for Bank Involvement.             The World Bank has worked with the Ministry of
Health, Ministry of Finance (MOF), and National Development and Reform Commission on the
formulation      of an emergency response program in support of the Government's SARS
Prevention and Control Strategy. This Program has been sharedwith other donors who have an
interest in providing emergency support under an integrated approach. The formulation of the
above-mentioned Strategy and policies for its implementation therefore provide the Bank and
others with a basic framework for assistance. Moreover, WHO, in consultation with the
Government, has developed a set of key activities that it believes must be undertaken urgently to
eradicate the diseasein China. As the Bank moves forward in providing support, it will continue
to draw heavily on WHO's technical guidance and that of WHO's close partner in this effort,
the U.S. CDC.

15.      The Government has officially requested support for implementing              its Strategy from
various members of the donor community.              The UN Disaster Management Group has provided a
forum for discussing some of the most immediate                emergency needs. Some bi-lateral donors
have sent emergency shipments of key medical supplies centeredon Beijing. The World Bank's
support for an integrated response Program                 will  begin to address some of the more
systemic/institutional needs, with special reference to the epidemic's potential effects on other
provinces.      Trust funds arrangements with DFID             and CIDA   are under preparation, to be
administered by the GOC, that will provide additional co-financing for the Program.

16       World Bank assistancein the current crisis is, moreover, a logical outgrowth of past and
current Bank projects to assist the GOC to address communicable disease challenges, in TB,
HIV/AIDS,      etc. The proposed Bank support will assist the Government in addressing emergency
needsin ending the SARS epidemic. However, the Bank would also seek to use this support as a
platform for building essential longer-term capacity via future Bank financing so that potential

future infectious diseasethreats can be averted. It will be essential in due course to also engage
the Government in dialogue about those systemic health systems issues that have arguably
contributed to the severity of the current crisis.

17.     The Bank's involvement, therefore, has been instrumental in helping the Government to
urgently move to a program approach so as to make best use of external resources. At the same
time, it has served a catalytic role in helping the GOC mobilize additional concessional funding
to addressthe crisis.

18      It should also be pointed out that the Program will have benefits well beyond China. It
will help China accessthe best international expertise on infectious diseasesto bring SARS fully
under control. The experience gained and the lessons learned in          responding to the SARS
epidemic will in turn enrich the global knowledge and understanding of SARS, thus benefiting
other countries in combating this global public health concern. Further, a partnership between
China and key international sources of expertise (such as WHO and the U.S. CDC, which have
been at the forefront of control efforts globally) will provide an opportunity to better understand
the origins of the SARS-related corona virus and its means of transmission.     In the process,it is
expected that important contributions will be made to the stock of       global knowledge on the
detection and prevention of rapidly emerging, previously unknown infectious diseases.

19.     Lessons Learned.        In designing this Program, the Bank drew from operational
experience in China with previous emergency responseoperations as well as from elsewhere in
the region. One of the most important considerations is the need for a clear framework to guide
the responseto an emergency situation. This framework needsto be based on an understanding
of the wider context and consequencesfor the sector as a whole. Careful consideration needsto
be given to capacity issues with respect to the various stakeholders so as to maximize the value
of support and inputs from the international and donor community in responseto the emergency
situation. Lastly, it is important to find a balance between short-term emergency needs and the
longer-term issues facing the sector. Care must be taken not to addressthe former at the expense
of the latter.

20      A review of Implementation Completion Reports from China emergency operations
suggestssome guidelines for optimizing the Program's results. Key operational lessonsfrom the
Yangtze Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project (No. 24876) and the Hebei Earthquake
Rehabilitation Project (No. 22216) are the need for: (a) participation and coordination of local
governments and end-users,and effective inter-agency coordination; and (b) flexible approaches
to handling procurement, including force account to construct small works in rural areas and
increased use of national shopping.

21.     Program    Objectives.     The objective of the proposed Program is to:         (1) address
emergency needs for W&S-related diagnosis, clinical management, and personal protection that
are necessary to bring the current epidemic fully           under control;   and  (2)  support the
Government's efforts to strengthen the capacity of the public health system more generally so
that China's health system is prepared to combat the possible re-emergence of SARS and,
equally important, similar infectious diseasethreats that might occur in the future.

22      Outline   of Proposed Program.         The total     Program funding would amount to
approximately US$2 1.5 million -see     Annex 1 for a breakdown of funding by financiers. The
Bank's contribution would be SDR8.09 million (US$l 1.5 million equivalent).     The components
and their investment costs are: (1) Program Planning, Coordination and Policy Development
(SDR.04 million);     (2) Clinical Management of SARS patients (SDR4.31 million);        and (3)
Disease Prevention and Control, with a focus on SARS and Other Infectious Diseases (SDR3.74
million) :

           Component (1): Program Planning, Coordination          and Policy Development.   This
           component would support activities to: (1) review and take stock of SARS related
           policies and accumulated experience, including the provision of free treatment for the
           poor, in part to determine lessons for other, more general public health programs and
           policies, e.g., for TB and HIV/AIDS,       and assessthe extent and nature of SARS
           related determinants (public health, socio-economic, financial barriers to accessing
           health care especially for the poor and vulnerable) in both affected and non-affected
           areas; (2) identify     gaps in preparedness and local responses in        addressing
           SARSinfectious      diseasesissues and develop and/or revise protocols for emergency
           responses to SARS and other similar outbreaks; (3) hold international and national
           workshops, seminars and conferences that involve exchanges of information and the
           sharing of best practices with respect to addressing SARS and related public health
           challenges that include integrating gender concerns into health policy; (4) plan and
           implement supervision efforts and domestic and international technical assistance,
           drawing upon technical input from WHO and other centers of international expertise;
           and (5) support the dissemination and implementation          of operational research
           findings.

           Component (2): Clinical Management of SARS Patients.           This component would
           provide support to:     (1) establish fever clinics where needed in selected medical
           institutions; (2) renovate designated SARS hospitals and wards in provincial capitals
           and selected prefectures in accordance with appropriate infectious disease control
           standards; (3) train male and female health care workers on SARS/infectious disease
           diagnosis and treatment; (4) strengthen personal protection measures for health care
           workers in order to minimize hospital infections in both patients and health care
           workers; (5) provide emergency supplies of consumables, medical equipment, and
           appropriate vehicles     for   transporting SARS     patients; (6) undertake regular
           supervision to evaluate compliance with MOH guidelines on the clinical management
           of SARS and hospital infection control for SARS and other related infectious
           diseases;and (7) carry out operational research.


        l  Component (3):       Disease Prevention and Control, with a focus on SARS and
           Other     Infectious   Diseases.   This   component would:    (1) strengthen disease
           surveillance and case reporting systems; (2) strengthen the laboratory network
           development for SARSinfectious diseasessurveillance; (3) carry out gender sensitive
           health promotion activities to, among other things, improve general awareness on
           preventing infection as well as reduce fear and stigmatization associated with
           SARSinfectious      diseases; and (4) train Ministry of Health Communicable Disease

            Center staff in field epidemiology, contact tracing, case reporting and ensure the
            implementation of these activities.

                          C. Program Implementation     Arrangements

23      Program Organization and Management.         Under the overall direction of the National
S!&S Command Center of the State Council, the Ministry of Health will be responsible for the
implementation of the Program.      Various    departments of the Ministry   of Health with the
relevant technical expertise, the National Development and Reform Commission, and the
Ministry of Finance will provide the necessarypolicy and technical guidance.

24      The Foreign Loan Office (FLO) of the Ministry of Health will be responsible for day-to-
day management and coordination of Program implementation,             related procurement and
financial management, and the monitoring of implementation.     FL0 currently carries out these
functions for on-going Bank health projects.     In addition, existing provincial health Project
Management Offices or Foreign Loan Offices will be responsible for Program planning and
implementation at the provincial level, including civil works and health promotion activities,
overseen by the provincial development and reform commissions, finance bureaus and health
bureaus. The Program will be carried out in eight priority provinces/autonomous regions or
cities that have been heavily affected. Inner Mongolia, Shanxi, Henan, Guangxi, and Hebei
would utilize Program funds.      Tianjin,   Guangdong, and Beijing would also benefit from
Program resources (though not Bank funding). In addition, other potential provinces that have
been affected by SARS and are economically disadvantaged could be supported by an MOH
managed central fund depending on the evolution of the epidemic.

25       Implementation   Standards.   Implementation will be carried out in accordance with a
detailed Program Implementation Plan (PIP), a copy of which is kept in the Program Files.

26       Implementation   Period.   The Program     would be implemented within 24 months,
beginning June 15, 2003. The completion date would be June 30, 2005; the closing date would
be December 31,2005.

27       Given the emergency nature of the crisis, the bulk of expenditures would be completed
by-December 31, 2003. However, some activities, particularly studies, will only be completed
by December 31, 2005. For example, it is critical that lessonsbe extracted from the SARS crisis
on a number of topics for future applications-prevention    techniques, treatment protocols, etc.
Such analysis can only be properly undertaken if sufficient time is allowed to carefully compile,
synthesize and analyze the relevant data and experience.

Procurement Arrangements

28.      Given the emergency nature of the Program and the fact that the proposed Program
activities could take place in various places throughout the country, depending on where
outbreaks might occur, neither international competitive bidding (ICB) nor national competitive
bidding (NCB) for civil works and goods would be suitable.          The following   procurement
procedures would be established, in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under

DRD and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1887, and
January 1999), and Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997, revised September 1999, January 1999 and May 2002).             Annex 2 provides
detailed procurement arrangements, thresholds for various procurement methods, prior review
and post review thresholds, a capacity assessmentand the frequency of procurement supervision.

Civil Works: Civil works would primarily involve renovation of existing hospital spacein order
to renovate isolation wards, improvement in ventilation in isolation wards, and small-scale
medical waste disposal facilities in Inner Mongolia, Shanxi, Henan, Guangxi, and Hebei. Force
Account will be used to carry out and complete the renovation works in the first few months of
the Program. The estimated cost per contract is less than $100,000 and the aggregatedamount is
about $1.5 million.

Goods: Procurement of medical equipment for fever clinics, hospitals, medical laboratories,
consumables, vehicles and ambulances will be procured following international and national
shopping procedures carried out by the central and provincial implementation agencies. The
estimated cost per contract is less than $500,000 and the aggregated amount for goods is $7.4
million.

Consultant Services and Training: Short-term individual consultants and specialized agencies
such as WHO and other international and national institutions and firms will be contracted to
provide consulting services with respect to practices, protocols and training for infection control
and the clinical    management of SARS patients, design and implementation              of disease
surveillance and reporting systems, development of laboratory networks for surveillance, health
promotion, and various types of operational research. These consultants would be employed in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants, through
comparison of CVs and qualifications or through sole source selection method. The total
estimated cost for services and training is about $1.5 million.

Financial Management Arrangements

29.     Assessment. An assessment of the financial management capabilities of the PMOs
concluded that they will have in place an adequate financial management system that can
provide, with reasonable assurance,accurate and timely information on the status of the funds as
required by the Bank, as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02.

30       Responsibilities.     All  the PMOs of the proposed Program have experience in
implementation of the Bank's projects. The finance division in the Project Management Office
(PMO) in the Foreign Loan Office of the Ministry of Health at the national level would be held
accountable for managing the financial aspectsof the Program, for keeping track of all financial
activities to be incurred, and would manage, monitor and maintain all financial accounts.
Original supporting documents for Program activities would be retained at PMOs at different
level for all transactions taking place.

31.     Accounting and Financial Reporting. For IDA funds, the administration, accounting and
reporting of the Program will be set up in accordancewith Circular #13: "Accounting regulations

for World Bank Financed Programs" issued in January 2000 by MOF.           For trust funds, MOF
issued in July 2001 a special set of financial and accounting regulations, providing detailed
instructions for accounting setup and treatment, format and content of financial statements,
internal control procedures, and audit requirements. The task team recommended and MOH
agreed that the accounting and reporting of the grants contributed by DFID, CIDA and JSDF
should follow theseregulations.

32      Auditing.   The Bank requires that project financial statements be audited in accordance
with standards acceptable to the Bank.       In line with Bank-financed projects in China, the
Program will be audited in accordancewith the Government Auditing Standards of China. The
foreign Funds Application Audit Department of the China National Audit Office and provincial
audit offices in each participating provinces have been identified as auditors for the Program.
Audit reports on annual financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6 months of the end
of each calendar year. A single audit report will be submitted for IDA Credits and grants.

Disbursement Arrangements

33.     Eligible Percentages. The proceeds of the credits/grants would be disbursed against
eligible expenditures in the following      percentages: 100% of foreign and local ex-factory
expenditures for equipment; 80% of local expenditures for equipment; 80% of expenditures for
civil works; 91% of expenditures for consultants' services; and 100*/oof training, workshops
and similar activities.

34      Disbursement Methods.      Disbursements will be processed using         transaction-based
disbursement methods and will not use FMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the
agreement between the Bank and the Ministry         of Finance.  Disbursement methods such as
replenishment, direct payment, and special commitment are available to the Program.            The
statement of expenditure limits will be set up consistent with procurement thresholds as follows:
(i) each contract for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of US$500,000 or less; (ii) each
contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or less; (iii) each contract
for consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or less; (iv) each contract for
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$lOO,OOOor less; and (v) no limits
for all other expenditures.

35      Advance Contracting.     The amendments would allow for advance contracting of up to
approximately 20% of funds provided to be applied to eligible expenditures made after April 23,
2003. The specific limits and eligible categoriesare shown in Annex 3.

36      Special Accounts. For existing credits, new special accounts will be established at each
of *the locations where the Program will be implemented.       The authorized allocation of each
special account will be equivalent to about 6 months of eligible expensesreimbursable through
the special account. Given the short time frame of the lending (two years), the full authorized
allocation will be immediately available. Special accounts will also be established for each of
the two new grants under these same guidelines.        Annex 3 provides the specific authorized
allocation amounts.

                                                -lO-


37.     Non-Bank Financing.        Co-financing, via a multi-donor trust fund, is being discussed
with DFID and CIDA, in the amounts of US$5 million and US$3 mi.llion, respectively. Their
support for this Program would give greater emphasis to institutional strengthening and policy
issues in a number of areassuch as health financing for the poor and gender issues. Participation
and the amounts indicated for DFID and CIDA should be viewed as tentative as these trust fund
arrangements are still under preparation. The Government of Japan has just announced at the
Evian Summit, as the latest in a series of SARS-related assistance,that it will contribute US$3
million to assist countries in the East Asia and Pacific Region in preventing SARS, through the
Bank in the form of JapanSocial Development Fund (JSDF). Of that amount, US$2 million will
be used to support the Program in China, the most severely affected country in the Region. For
purposes of supervision, the World Bank will assist in coordinating the various donor inputs.
Annex    1 indicates the financing provided from these sources.            In addition, the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) is working in four provinces not supported by the Program, which
have been seriously affected by SARS. ADB's inputs are similar to those of the Program. There
is coordination between these two efforts, both of which are managed by the MOH's FL0 as
well as exchangesof information and documentation between the Bank and ADB.

38.     Assurances. The Ministry of Finance will assumeresponsibility for repayment of 100%
of those Credit proceeds devoted to the Program in those             provinces/autonomous regions
benefiting from the Program.

39.     Environmental     and Safeguard Policies.      Given the urgent nature of the operation
(being processed under OP 8.50 Emergency Recovery Assistance) and the proposed areas for
Bank financing, a full-fledged Environmental Assessment was not carried out.            This is in
accordance with     the provisions   of OP 4.01 Environmental         Assessment.    The potential
environmental impacts of the Program are limited in scope. The risks associated with clinical
wastes in connection with the treatment of SARS patients will be mitigated by adherence to
established WHO recommended guidelines on hospital waste management. As SARS is a new
disease,complete knowledge about appropriate practice is only now being accumulated by WHO
based on its worldwide experience with the epidemic.         Indeed, an important function of the
Program will be to disseminate this new experience and knowledge throughout the country in
order to ensurebest practice. In addition, technical assistancewould assessthe needsin this area
and recommend any necessary additional measuresto minimize environmental risks. The civil
works to be undertaken will be small scale primarily involving creation of isolation areas in
existing health facilities.   Civil works contracts will    incorporate reasonable obligations to
mitigate any potential environmental effects. New construction is not anticipated. There will not
be any land acquisition or resettlement related to health facility renovation.

40.     SARS makes no distinctions in terms of the socio-economic status, gender, ethnic origin,
etc., of those it infects. However, those poorer elements of society who have less access to
health care or who do not have financial resources with which to seek care will be most
vulnerable if they become infected.      Moreover, poorer areas will in general have less well
developed health care systems and thus could see a rapid spread of the disease because both
prevention and treatment systems will be less well equipped to combat outbreaks. Therefore the
Program has as a central objective preventing the spread of the disease to such areas, or
containing it if it emerges. Moreover, Government has issued legislation prescribing that no

                                                -ll-


SARS patients, regardless of income level, shall be denied care on financial grounds and has
pledged to provide funds to cover diagnosis and treatment related to SARS.

41      Women and girls may be unduly affected by SARS and other infectious diseasesin large
part due to their caregiver role. In order to mitigate this risk, the Program will identify the
different needs and interests of women and men in the process of reviewing SARS related
policies and health promotion materials; ensure the equal participation of men and women in
decision-making, training, and other Program components and activities; and ensurethat women
and men have equitable access to SARS treatment. Technical assistance will be used to
undertake a gender assessmentto identify areasin which the above gender considerations can be
integrated and implemented in the Program.

42.     As it is not possible to predict with certainty where any future outbreaks might emerge, it
is not possible a priori to specify precisely in which areasthe Program might need to function
beyond those provinces already heavily affected.         The latter municipalities, provinces and
autonomous regions that will receive assistancefrom the Program are: Inner Mongolia, Shanxi,
Henan, Guangxi, Hebei, Tianjin, Beijing and Guangdong. Should outbreaks occur in areaswith
ethnic group concentrations, special care will be taken to prepare health promotion/public
awareness materials and to conduct public information campaigns that are appropriate to the
respective cultural context. The Ministry of Health has considerable experience with such health
promotion approaches in the Health VII, Health VIII,         Health IX and Tuberculosis Control
projects and this experiencewill be tapped for the Program where indicated.

                                  D. Program Benefits and Risks

43      Benefits and Beneficiary Participation.       The Program's beneficiaries will include all
those members of society who have been protected from potential infection by SARS or other
infectious diseases. In addition, members of the health work force are a particularly important
beneficiary given both their high susceptibility to SARS, particularly in China to date, as well as
their vital role in preventing its further transmission and avoiding increased morbidity and
mortality from SARSlinfectious diseases among the general population.          Indeed, without the
intensive commitment and involvement of health professionals in many facets of combating
epidemics, it will not be possible to bring them under control.        Toward that end, it will be
especially important that health professionals command the trust of the public so that the public
has the confidence in taking the preventive steps health professionals recommend. Efforts to
minimize the irrational fear often surrounding infectious diseasesas well asthe stigmatization of
infected individuals will be an important part of the Program.

44.     Risks.   Government commitment to the Program is very high, in part because of the
serious longer-term implications that a prolonged epidemic would have on the Chinese economy
and in turn the region.     Thus, at the national level, senior leaders have committed to taking
whatever actions are necessary to halt the further spread of the epidemic.                Program
implementation could be delayed in some poorer provinces, however, because they have the
weakest administrative systems and will be less able to mobilize both the resources and
personnel to take the required actions. GOC is taking steps to reinforce capacity in these areas
and is increasing supervision from the national level to ensurethat necessaryactions are taken in

                                             -12-


a timely manner. Lastly, experience has shown that accurate and timely reporting is critical in
keeping the public informed about the nature and status of an epidemic. WHO has been working
closely with MOH in ensuring consistency in case definitions and improving reporting systems
and surveillance. Continued vigilance in this regard will be key to maintaining the important
gains that have been achieved to date.

                                                             -13-


                                                                                                                     Annex 1

                                     PEOPLE'S          REPUBLIC           OF CHINA

                            SARS and Infectious DiseasesResponse Program


                                         Table A: Summary Cost Table
                                          By Component and Financier
                                                      (US$ Million)




3. Disease Prevention an
    with a focus on SARS
    Infectious Diseases
Total                                                   11.52                 8.00                2.00            21.52

I/  In addition to these external resources, the Government   is providing significant funding to implement its SARS
    Prevention and Control   Strategy throughout  the country.
2/  Based on May 29,2003      exchange rate of SDR:USD = 1.4262.
3/  Based on May 28,2003      exchange rates as follows: (a) 1 U.S. Dollar = 0.61 British Pound; and (b) 1 U.S. Dollar = 1.39
    Canadian Dollar.

                                                     -14-


                                       Table B: Detailed Cost Table
                                 By Component and Expenditure Category
                                                (US$ Million)




  1.   Program Planning, Coordination    and Policy Development

  1.1 SARS policy review and                                               0.30            0.30
       lessons learned
1 1.2 AssessSARS determinants        )     0.40     1              I        0.40      1    0.80     I



  1.4 Annual plans and budgets                                              0.09            0.09
  1. 5 Dissemination and                                                    0.04           0.04
       operational research
  Sub-total                                0.40            0.00            1.13            1.53

  2.   Clinical Management     of SARS Patients

12.1 Establish fever clinics         I      1.18    1              I        0.10       I    1.28    I
I 2.2 Renovate hospitals and wards I                I      1.69    1      -0.10        I    1.79-1
I 2.3 Training for health workers    I              I              I        1.30       I    1.30    I
  2.4 HW personal protection and                                            1.25            1.25
       hospital infection control
  2.5 Consumables, medical                 2.47                                            2.47
       equipment and vehicles
  2.6 Supervision for SARS                                                  0.35           0.35
       activities
I 2.7 Operational research           I              I              I        0.45       1   0.45     I
  Sub-total                                3.65            1.69           -3.55            8.89

  3.   Disease Prevention and Control, with a focus on SARS and other Infectious Diseases


  3.1 Strengthen surveillance and                                           1.50            1.50
       reporting
  3.2 Laboratory network                   5.01                             0.85           5.86
       development
  3.3 Health promotion                     0.79                             2.01           2.80
  3.4 Other SARS interventions                                              0.94           0.94
I Sub-total                          I     5.80     1      0.00    1        5.30       1   11.10    I
( Total                              I     9.85     I      1.69    I       -998.           21.52

                                                -15-


                                                                                       Annex 2
                               PEOPLE'S   REPUBLIC     OF CHINA

                        SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program


                                   Procurement Arrangements


Procurement Guidelines

1      The procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits (January 1995, Revised January
and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). The procurement of services will be
done in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by
the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, Revised September 1997, January 1999 and May
2002).

Standard Bidding Documents

2      The Bank's standard documents for consulting services will be used under the Program.
A sample quotation solicitation form for equipment and contract form for civil works which have
been used under the health projects financed by the Bank would be used for procurement through
shopping procedures and force account under the SARS program.

Implementation Arrangements

3      Under the overall direction of the National SARS Command Center of the State Council,
the Ministry  of Health will be responsible for the implementation of the Program.      Various
departments in the Ministry      of Health with the relevant technical expertise, the National
Development and Reform Commission, and the Ministry of Finance will provide policy and
technical guidance. The Foreign Loan Office (FLO) of the Ministry of Health will be responsible
for day-to-day management and coordination of Program implementation, related procurement
and financial management, and the monitoring of implementation.       FL0 currently carries out
these functions for health projects in China. In addition, existing health Project Management
Offices or Foreign Loan Offices at the provincial level will be responsible for Program planning
and implementation at the provincial level, including civil works and procurement of some
equipment, and health promotion        activities, which will  be overseen by the provincial
development and reform commissions, finance bureaus and health bureaus. Implementation will
be carried out in accordancewith a detailed Program Implementation Plan (PIP), including the
Operational Manual.

Assessment of Agencies' Capacity to Implement Procurement

4      The Program team has reached an understanding that there is no need to carry out a
comprehensive capacity assessment of the agencies in the Ministry         of Health and at the
provincial level, as all of them have been implementing Bank financed projects in past years and

                                                -16-


have gained substantial experience in carrying out procurement according to Bank procurement
policies and procedures. In general, project implementation under these agencies has been
satisfactory and there have been no major procurement issues in               health projects. The
implementation agencies in Beijing, Tianjin and Guangdong are new agencies that have little
experience with the Bank procurement procedures. They will not carry out any procurement of
goods and works under the Program. They will be involved in procurement of consulting
services with assistance from FL0 in Ministry of Health. FL0 will also provide procurement
training and technical assistance to all agencies during Program implementation, in particular
before any procurement activities are initiated. The risk rating for this Program is average.Based
on this assessment,the thresholds for prior review, post review and supervision plan have been
agreedand are statedin the following paragraphs.

Procurement Prior Review and Post Review

5.       Given the emergency nature of the Program and the fact that the proposed Program
activities could take place in various places throughout the country, depending on where
outbreaks might occur, neither international competitive bidding (ICB), nor national competitive
bidding (NCB) for civil works and goods would be suitable. Therefore, all contracts for goods
will be through shopping procedures,both international and national shopping, depending on the
technical requirements of the equipment needed. Goods contracts at and above $500,000 each
will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Procurement of civil works will be small-scale
renovations of hospitals and fever clinics scattered in various provinces and counties. These
contracts will be carried out through Force Account and will be completed within a tight
schedule. The prior review threshold for civil        works contract is $200,000 per contract.
Consultant contracts estimated to cost over $200,000 for firms and $100,000 for individuals shall
be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other contracts and the Statement of Expenditures
shall be subject to post reviews. The Bank's supervision missions will review one out of five
contracts. The Program launch workshop is expectedin June2003.

Procurement Methods

6.      International  Shopping    (IS)   and National     Shopping.      Procurement of medical
equipment for fever clinics,     hospitals, medical     laboratories, consumables, vehicles and
ambulances will be procured following international and national shopping procedures carried
out by the central and provincial implementation agencies. The estimated cost per contract is
less than $500,000 and the aggregatedamount for goods is $7.4 million.

7        Force Account: Civil works would primarily       involve renovation of existing hospital
space in order to renovate isolation wards, improvement in ventilation of isolation wards, and
small-scale medical waste disposal facilities in Inner Mongolia, Shanxi, Henan, Guangxi, and
Hebei. Force Account will be used to carry out and complete the renovation works in the first
few months of the Program. The estimated cost per contract is less than $200,000 and the
aggregatedamount is about $1.5 million.

8       Single Source Selection: WHO and other specialized firms will be contracted to provide
consulting services with respect to practices, protocols and training for infection control and the
clinical management of SARS patients, design and implementation of disease surveillance and

                                               -170


reporting systems, development of laboratory networks for surveillance, health promotion, and
various types of operational research.Due to the emergency nature of the Program and the very
limited number of specialists available in the world for the assignment, sole source selection
method will be used to hire the consulting firms. The total estimated cost for sole source
contracting for consulting firms is about $500,000 and the cost per contract is less than $100,000.

9       Consultant Qualifications:   Consulting services for practices and protocols for infection
control and management of SARS patients will be contracted to consulting firms through
comparison of Consultant Qualifications for less than $100,000 per contract and with an
aggregatedamount of $200,000.

10     Individual  Consultants: Individual consultants will be hired for training, management,
design and implementation of disease surveillance and reporting systems, health promotion and
related researchand studies. Selection of individual consultants will be carried out in accordance
with the provisions 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. The aggregatedamount is $300,000.

11       Training and Workshops: The Program will finance various international and national
workshops, seminars and conferences to exchange information on how to address SARS and
other public health challenges, and on dissemination and implementation of operations research
findings.   Training of health care workers on SARS and infectious disease diagnosis and
treatment will also be organized. Related costs for workshops and training will be eligible for
financing through Statement of Expenditures according to government internal expenditure and
accounting procedures.

Advance Contracting (advanceprocurement and retroactive firzanchg)

12      Given the emergency nature of the Program, some procurement of goods and consulting
services were carried out during Program preparation. Expenditures incurred since April 23,
2003 will be eligible for financing by the Credit. However, since the Program funding comes
from existing Credits, the term "Advance Contracting" is used instead of Advance Procurement
and Retroactive Financing.

Procurement Plan, List of Equipment, and Operational Manual

13      The procurement plan for the Program including all civil works contracts, procurement of
goods, and consulting services, procurement methods, time frames for each contract, and
estimated amount was discussed and agreed with the Ministry           of Health during Program
preparation. The draft Terms of Reference for some consulting contracts and the draft technical
specifications for goods areunder preparation. The procurement plan is a rolling plan and will be
updated every three months to coincide with the Bank's supervision of the Program in the field.
Major changesin the procurement plan will be subject to the Bank's review and approval. Given
the emergency nature of the Program and the fact that each province may have used different
sources of financing for some equipment while this Program is under preparation, the list of
equipment is likely to be revised during implementation. It is agreed that the revised list of
equipment prepared by each province will be subject to prior review and approval of the
Ministry of Health to avoid repeatedpurchase of equipment which may have been supplied by

                                             -18-


other sources or are committed to be supplied by other sources.     .
                                                                WJ   or ch.angesin the list of
equipment will require the Bank's review and approval.

Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: Average

Frequency of procurement       supervision missions proposed: There will be one supervision
mission every 3 months (a procurement staff or consultant will be included in the supervision
mission to carry out post-reviews).

Attachment A presentsthe Procurement Plan.

                                                                                     -19-


                                                                                                                                         Attachment A
                                                                            Procurement Plan
                                               SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program


                                                                               No     Estimated     Preparation    Evaluation    Contract      Contract
                  Activities                        TYPe         Procure-       of     Contract        of SP/                    Signing      Completion
              By    Component                        Of            ment         ctr      Value         TOR
                                                    CtI-'        Method*                 (IIw
   1. Program        Planning,       Coordination        and   Policy  Development

   1.1. SARS        Policy    Review     and         C               ss                               6/2003                                    6/2005
   Lessons      Learned
   1.2.                                              G          shopping               1,187,OOO      6/2003                     6-7/2003       12/2004
   (a) Assess      SARS
   determinants        (medical/clinical
   equipment)
   1.2.                                             C/T          SS/SOE                               612003                                    6/2005
   (b) Assess       SARS
   determinants        (TA/workshops)
   1.3 .workshops         for knowledge              T              SOE
   sharing,     int'l  and national                                                                   6/2003                                    612005
   1.4.preparation         of annual    plan        C/T          SS/SOE                  50,000       1012003
   and budget
   1.5. Information                                 C/T          SS/SOE                                8/2003
   dissemination         and OR
   2. Clinical       Management         of SARS


   2.1.                                              G          Shopping               378,600         612003                    6-7/2003       1212004

   (a) Medical       equipment       for
   fever   clinics
   2.1.                                               T             SOE                                6/2003                                   1212004
   (b) Training       of medical      staff
   in Fever     Clinics
   2.2.                                              W               FA                1,500,000       6/2003                     8/2003        12/2004
   (a) Renovation          of hospitals
   and wards
   2.2.                                               C              ss
   (b) Technical        assistance     for
   hospital     and wards
   2.3.                                               T             SOE                 300,000
   (a) Training       for health
   workers
   2.3.                                               C              ss
   (b) TA     for   health   workers'
   training    program
   2.4.  HW      personal     protection            C/T           SS/SOE                150,000
   and hospital       infection     control



1

C - Consulting        Services
G - Goods
T - Training/workshops
W - Works

2

FA - Force       Account
Shopping
SIC  - Selection      for   Individual     Consultants
SOE   - Statement        of Expenses       following    the government    procedures
SS - Single      Source      Selection
CQ -     Selection     Based     on Consultant      Qualifications

                                                                                -2o-


                                                                        No      Estimated          Preparation    Evaluation     Contract     Contract
                 Activities                       TYPe     Procure-      of      Contract             of SP/                      Signing    Completion
              By  Component                        Of         ment      Ctr         Value             TOR
                                                  Cl2      Method2                  (IDA)
  2.5.                                             G       shopping                                  6/2003                       8/2003       6/2005
  (a) Consumables
  2.5.                                             G       shopping              1,338,500           6/2003                      6-7/2003      12/2004
  (b) Medical      equipment
  2.5.0 Vehicles                              I    G     I shopping   I       I 2,02 1,800       I   6/2003     I              I  6/2003    I  6/2004

  2.6.    SPN   for  SARS      activities          T           SOE                150,000
  2.7.    Operational      research                C            ss                                   12/2003                                   6/2005
  3. Disease      Prevention        and   Control,   with a focus on SARS  and other   Infectious   Diseases

  3.1.    Strengthen      surveillance            T/C      SOE/SIC/               150,000            612003                                    6/2005
  and reporting                                                 ss
  3.2.                                             G       shopping             2,472,400            6/2003                      6-7/2003      12/2004
  (a) Procurement          of lab
  equipment
  3.2.                                            T/C      SOE/SIC/             150,000              6/2003                                    612005
  (b) Training      and network                                 ss
  development
  3.3.                                            T/C      SOE/SIC/                                  6/2003                                    6/2005
  (a)Health      promotion                                      ss
  3.3                                              G       Shopping                                  W2003                        8/2003       612005
  (b) Equipment          for health
  promotion
  3 -4. SARS      interventions                   T/C      SOE/SIC/               250,000            6/2003                                    612005
                                                             SSICQ
  Contingency3                                                                   1 ,ooo,ooo




3Contingency for the project is $l,OOO,OOOthat will be shown in the disbursement table. However, contingency is
not shown in the standard procurement table.

                                              -210


                                                                                        Annex 3

                              PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC        OF CHINA

                       SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program


                   Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements


Assessment of Financial Management Capacity

Background

1       The objective of the proposed Program is to: (1) address emergency needs for SARS-
related diagnosis, clinical management, and personal protection that are necessaryto bring the
current epidemic fully under control; and (2) support Government's efforts to strengthen the
capacity of the public health system more generally so that China's health system is preparedto
combat the possible re-emergence of SARS and, equally important, similar infectious disease
threats that might occur in the future.

2.      The breakdown of total financing plan for the Program activities is as follows:


    l   World Bank: SDR 8.1 million (approximately USD 11.5 million)

    l   DFID: USD 5 million

    l   CIDA: USD 3 million

    l   JSDF: USD 2 million

3       The purpose of the assessmentis to determine whether financial management capacity of
the proposed Program Management Office (PMO) in respectof managing loan and grants will be
able to meet the requirements as stipulated in BP/OP 10.02.        The assessment of financial
management capacity is based on relevant Bank guidelines and consequently included
procedures as considered necessary and appropriate to the Program's circumstances, including
discussion and observation. The following were noted as a result of the discussion.

Organization and Stafjng

4      Under the overall direction of the National SARS Command Center of the State Council,
the Ministry   of Health will be responsible for the implementation of the Program.      Various
departments of the Ministry      of Health with the relevant technical expertise, the National
Development and Reform Commission, and the Ministry of Finance will provide the necessary
policy and technical guidance.

5      The Foreign Loan Office (FLO) of the Ministry of Health will be responsible for day-to-
day management and coordination of Program implementation,             related procurement and
financial management, and the monitoring of implementation.     FL0 currently carries out these

                                                 -22-


  functions for on-going Bank health projects.      In addition, existing provincial health Program
 Management Offices or Foreign Loan Offices will be responsible for Program planning and
  implementation at the provincial level, including civil works and health promotion activities,
' overseen by the provincial development and reform commissions, finance bureaus and health
 bureaus.

  6      All the PMOs of the proposed Program have experience in implementation of the Bank's
 projects. For those financial staff who might not have such experience, training and supervision
  from MOH will be essential for the implementation of the Program. The World Bank Beijing
  Office could also provide related training and guidance, if required.

  Fund Flows

  7      For IDA credits, since the new SAs will be established in the related provinces within
  the original IDA    credits, the funds flow will    follow the same procedures of the original
  Programs, e.g.:


                                     SAs in
                                     provinces
                                     and at MoH



          For the grants, the SAs will be established in the central level (with either MOF or
  MOH), with second generation special accounts established in the provinces.         The funds are
  expected to flow as follows:


       World              SAs in MOF            SGSAs in                 Suppliers and
       Bank            b  orMoH               b Provincial             b contractors
                                                PMOs


  Bookkeeping

  8       The finance division in the Program Management Office (PMO) in the Foreign Loan
  dffice of the Ministry of Health at the national level would be held accountable for managing the
  financial aspectsof the Program, for keeping track of all financial activities to be incurred, and
  would manage, monitor and maintain all financial accounts. Original supporting documents for
  Program activities would be retained at PMOs at different levels for all transactions taking place.

  Accounting Policies and Procedures

  9.      For IDA funds, the administration, accounting and reporting of the Program will be set up
  in accordance with Circular #13: "Accounting regulations for World Bank Financed Programs"
  issued in January2000 by MOF.

                                                -23-


        The standard set of project financial statementshas been agreedto between the Bank and
MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraisedafter July 1, 1998 and includes the following:


    l   Balance sheet

    l   Statement of sourceand use of fund

    l   Statement of implementation of credit agreement

    l   Statement of special account

    A set of tailored financial statements will be designed for the Program based on the
discussion between MOH and the Bank.

10      Periodic consolidated financial statements would be prepared by the finance division of
the FL0    before submitting these in a timely      manner for the Bank review.         Unaudited
consolidated financial statements would be submitted b&annually (no later than October 1 and
April 1 respectively) by the PM0 to the Bank.

11      In order to streamline financial management of trust funds, MOF has issued in July of
20bl a set of financial and accounting regulations, providing detailed instructions for accounting
setup and treatment, format and content of financial statements,internal control procedures, and
audit requirements. The task team recommended and MOH also agreedthat the accounting and
reporting of the grants contributed by DFID, CIDA and JSDF will follow theseregulations.

External Audit and Audit Reports

12      The Bank requires that Program financial statements be audited in accordance with
standards acceptable to the Bank. In line with Bank financed Programs in China, the Program
will be audited in accordance with the Government Auditing Standards of P.R.China.           The
foreign Funds Application Audit Department of the China National Audit Office and provincial
audit offices in eachparticipating province have been identified as auditors for the Program.

13      Audit reports on annual financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6 months of
the end of each calendar year. A single audit report will be submitted for IDA Credits and
grants.

Conclusion

14.     Based on the above analysis, the task team has determined that the PMOs, for purpose of
managing IDA credit and grants, will satisfy the Bank's financial management requirements as
stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. In the task team's opinion, the PMOs will have in place an adequate
financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance,accurate and timely
information on the status of the funds asrequired by the Bank.

                     Further Information     on Disbursement Arrangements

15.     Advance Contracting Limits and Categories are as follows:

                                         -24-


      Credits/Grant         up to             For Categories

      IDA 3075              SDR 450,000       Civil Works - 11 (c-l-l), Goods - 11 (c-l-2)

      IDA 3271              SDR 380,000       Civil Works - 4 (a), Goods - 4 (b)

      IDA 2616              SDR 160,000       Goods - 4 (a), Civil Works - 4 (b)

      IDA 2744              SDR 170,000       Goods - 9 (a), Civil Works - 9 (b)

      IDA 2710              SDR 40,000        Civil Works - 11 (a), Goods - 11 (b)

      IDA 2522              SDR 150,000       Civil Works - 4 (a), Goods - 4 (b)

      IDA NO270             SDR 110,000       Training & TA - 7 (c)

      IDA 3233              SDR 120,000       Training & TA - 5 (c)

      CIDAIDFID    Grant    USD 1,600,OOO Goods, Training & TA

      JSDF Grant            USD 320,000       Goods, Training & TA

16. Authorized Allocations for Sr>ecialAccounts are as follows:


      Location              Credits Nos.              Authorized Allocation

      Inner Mongolia        IDA 3075                  $650,000

      Shanxi                IDA 3271                  $540,000

      Henan                 IDA 2616                  $230,000

      Guangxi               IDA 2744                  $250,000

      Hebei                 IDA 2710 and 2522         $300,000

      Ministry of Health    IDA NO270 and 3233        $330,000

      Ministry of Health    CIDADFID     Grant        $1,600,000

      Ministry of Health    JSDF Grant                320,000

                                                             -25-


                                                                                                                 Annex 4

                                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC                 OF CHINA

                              SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program


                                          Key Performance Indicators



            The following Key Performance Indicators are proposed to monitor and evaluate the
health impact of the Program. They will be further refined and agreedupon during the program
launch workshop.




   1. Program Planning,                              1.1 No. of provinces that have developed or revised protocols for
        Coordination and Policy                         emergency response to SARS outbreaks according to the

        Development                                     recommendations from SARS response preparedness
                                                        assessments.
                                                     1.2 No. of non-affected areas that prepare critical stock of SARS-
                                                        related supplies with which to mount a first wave response to
                                                         SARS outbreak or a similar infectious disease threat.
                                                     1.3 Program annual plans are developed and integrated in atimely
                                                        manner with existing national plan for SARS response.
                                                     1.4 Lessons learned and best practices in addressing SARS
                                                         epidemic are analyzed for wider public health applications, and
                                                        are disseminated.
                                                     1S SARS related policies are reviewed and revised both for their
                                                        implications for SARS and other infectious diseases.
   2. Clinical Management of SARS                    2.1 Designated SARS hospitals/wards with a capacity of providing
        Patients                                         quality SARS clinical management for at least 200 probable
                                                         and 200 suspected SARS casesset up within the 3 months after
                                                         program effectiveness in 6 priority provinces and cities.
                                                     2.2 National guidelines on SARS diagnosis, treatment,
                                                         transportation of SARS patients verified or revised according
                                                         to well designed prior&v operational research.
   3. Disease Prevention and                         3.1 No. and % staff recruited and trained for SARSinfectious
        Control, with a focus on SARS                    diseasessurveillance and reporting.

        and other Infectious Diseases                3.2 National Health Promotion Strategy for SARS and other
                                                         infectious diseasesdeveloped and implemented.
                                                     3.3 Positive knowledge and behavior changed among targeted
                                                         populations with respect to SARS and other infectious
                                                         diseases.



WB18167
L:\WORD\China\SARSbvIOP--SARS    Emergency  Program.doc
June 3,2003   3 : 15 PM

