Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N027 CHA
Interim Fund Project Agreement
(National Rural Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members 
of International Development Association pursuant to Resolution 
No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of 
International Development Association
and
Hebei Province
Hubei Province
Jiangxi Province Nei Mongol Autonomous Region
and Yunnan Province
Dated August 14, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N027 CHA
INTERIM FUND PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 14, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim trust fund 
(Interim Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, and HEBEI PROVINCE, 
HUBEI PROVINCE, JIANGXI PROVINCE, NEI MONGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION and YUNNAN PROVINCE 
(the Project Provinces). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution, the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
WHEREAS (B) by the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and the Administrator, the 
Administrator has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifty one million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 51,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Provinces agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Administrator as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Administrator’s entering 
into the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out its respective parts of Parts A, 
B, C.1(b) and C.2 of the Project (the Provincial Parts of the Project) with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
sanitation, health, engineering and environmental standards and practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for such Parts. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Administrator and the Project Provinces shall otherwise agree, each 
Project Province shall carry out its respective parts of the Provincial Parts of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each Project Province shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and its respective parts of the Provincial Parts of the Project. 
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province shall, at the request of the 
Administrator, exchange views with the Administrator with regard to the progress of 
its respective parts of the Provincial Parts of the Project in its territory, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Interim Fund Credit. 
(b)
Each Project Province shall promptly inform the Administrator of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
respective parts of the Provincial Parts of the Project in its territory, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, or the performance by such 
Province of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of its 
respective parts of the Provincial Parts of the Project of the departments, agencies 
and administrative subdivisions of such Project Province responsible for carrying out 
such parts of the Project in its territory.
Page  3
(b)
Each Project Province shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; 
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of its 
financial statements for 
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit 
by 
said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof, as the 
Administrator shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Each Project Province shall: 
(a)
have the records and accounts for any water plant facility in which 
investments in an amount greater than Yuan 5,000,000 equivalent have been made under 
Part A of the Project within its territory, audited at the end of its first full 
fiscal year of operation in accordance with auditing principles consistently applied 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; and 
(b)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case no 
later than six (6) months after the end of such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors.
Section 3.03. In respect of each investment under Part A of the Project within 
its respective territory, each Project Province shall, commencing not later than the 
second full fiscal year of operations of such investment, ensure that water charges 
will be established and collected annually at a level sufficient to cover 
administrative costs, operation and maintenance costs, taxes, plus the greater of (a) 
interest charges and depreciation, or (b) debt service payments. 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Administrator and of 
the Project Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates: 
(i)
the date on which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or 
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Administrator shall promptly notify the Project Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Page  4
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of the date notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Hebei Province:
Hebei Province Government
Wei Ming Jie
Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province 050000
Telex: 
26240 PBLST CN
For Hubei Province:
Hubei Provincial Government
Hong Shan Lu
Wuchang
Wuhan, Hubei Province 430071
Telex:
40251 HBCPB CN
For Jiangxi Province:
Jiangxi Provincial Government
69 Beijing Xi Lu
Nanchang, Jiangxi Province 330046
Telex:
226508 MMJX CN
For Nei Mongol Autonomous Region:
Nei Mongol Autonomous Region Government
Xin Hua Da Jie
Huhehaote, Nei Mongol Autonomous Region 010050
Telex:
Page  5
6944148 NMFAO CN
For Yunnan Province:
Yunnan Provincial Government
Wu Hua Shan
Kunming, Yunnan Province 650021
Telex:
64075 FAOYN CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of each Project 
Province may be taken or executed by the Governor or Vice Governor of said Project 
Province, and on behalf of the Nei Mongol Autonomous Region by the Chairman or Vice 
Chairman of said Region, or such other person or persons as such Governor or Vice 
Governor, or Chairman or Vice Chairman, as the case may be, shall designate in 
writing, and said Project Province or the Region shall furnish to the Administrator 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of the International
Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184
of the Board of Governors of the International Development
Association
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
HEBEI PROVINCE
HUBEI PROVINCE
JIANGXI PROVINCE
NEI MONGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION
and YUNNAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program for the Provincial Parts of the Project
Part A:
Project Management
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
maintain its PPO; and
Page  6
(b)
cause its respective Project Counties each to maintain its CPO; in each 
case staffed with qualified personnel in adequate number, and with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Administrator, including the organization, 
imple-mentation and supervision of the carrying out of the Provincial Parts of the 
Project at the levels of the Project Provinces and Project Counties. 
Part B:
Project Implementation 
1.
(a)
Each Project Province shall, by October 15 of each year, starting in 
1997, submit to the NPO for its review, approval and consolidation into an AWP, a 
comprehensive annual work plan for the implementation of the Provincial Parts of the 
Project within its territory during the following calendar year, including 
resettlement inventories or action plans, as shall be required by the Resettlement 
Policy Framework.
(b)
Each Project Province shall ensure that all investments under Part A of 
the Project that are included in such annual work plans shall meet the technical 
standards of the Design Manual.
(c)
Each Project Province shall ensure that resettlement inventories and 
action plans: 
(i)
shall be prepared on the basis of the policies and procedures set 
out in the 
Resettlement Policy Framework; and 
(ii)
shall be satisfactory to the Administrator.
2.
Each Project Province shall carry out its respective part of the Provincial 
Parts of the Project in accordance with each AWP (including, as the case may be, 
resettlement inventories and/or action plans) in a manner satisfactory to the 
Administrator.
3.
Each Project Province shall through its respective PPO: (a) appraise all 
investments under Part A of the Project as included in any annual work plan referred 
to in paragraph 1 of this Part B within its respective territories with an estimated 
value of more than Yuan 500,000 but not exceeding  Yuan 3,000,000, and review in 
particular the quality of the engineering and financial preparation and the overall 
feasibility of such proposed investments; and (b) submit all such investments under 
Part A of the Project with an estimated value of more than Yuan 3,000,000 to the NPO 
for appraisal. 
4.
For all investments under Part A of the Project with an estimated value of more 
than Yuan 500,000, the relevant county quality assurance office shall be retained to 
verify that construction practices and standards have met design specifications.
5.
Each Project Province shall, through its respective CPOs, complete the baseline 
survey under Part C.2 of the Project for villages within its territory receiving water 
under Part A of the Project in 1998, and, by December 1, 1997, provide a copy of their 
final reports to NPO.
6.
Each Project Province shall:  (i) complete the study of hygiene practices under 
Part B.1 of the Project within its territory in accordance with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Administrator and provide a copy thereof to the NPO by March 15, 
1998; (ii) based on the recommendations of said study, and taking into account the 
Administrator’s comments on the consolidated study furnished by the NPO to the 
Administrator in accordance with paragraph 1(d) of Schedule 3 to the Interim Fund 
Credit Agreement, prepare by September 1, 1998, a time-bound health education 
information program satisfactory to the Administrator; and (iii) deliver such program 
to community teachers, health practitioners and villagers in the Project Counties 
within its territory in accordance with its terms.
7.
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, the carrying out of its respective part of the Provincial Parts 
Page  7
of the Project (including the implementation of the Resettlement Policy Framework) and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof within its territory;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the NPO for its consolidation and submission to the Administrator, a semi- 
annual report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of its respective parts of the Provincial Parts of Project during the 
periods ending on June 30 and December 31 of each year, with the first such period to 
end on June 30, 1998 and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of such parts of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the next semi-annual period following such date; such reports shall be 
submitted within one month following the end of the relevant reporting period. 
Notwithstanding the above, the report to be submitted not later than July 31, 1998 
shall cover the two immediately preceding semi-annual periods.
SCHEDULE 2
Performance Indicators 
Water Supply
- 
the number of villagers in Project Counties newly served by Project supplied 
water meeting 
the Borrower’s rural water quality standards.
-
the percentage of investments carried out under Part A of the Project that meet 
the 
requirement of the revenue covenant set out in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement.
Health and Sanitation
-
the number of sanitary latrines constructed in villages in the Project Counties 
in addition 
to those constructed under Part B.3 of the Project.
-
the percentage point improvement in the washing of hands before food preparation 
and eating 
by the villagers in the Project Counties.
