                                    Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 40186-CN




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
          (FINANCED FROM IDA 2522; 2616; 2710; 2744; N027; 3075; 3233; 3271;

                            GRANTS TF 052328 AND TF052892)




                 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.1 MILLION; US$8 MILLION
                           (US21.52 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                            PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                       FOR A

              SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME ("SARS") AND

                 OTHER INFECTIOUS DISEASES RESPONSE PROGRAM




                                    June 29,2007




Human Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Office
East Asia and Pacific Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   ( Exchange Rate Effective June 28,2007 )

                         Currency Unit = Yuan

                             Yuan 1.00 =US$0.13

                              US$ 1.00 = Yuan 7.61

                                  Fiscal Year

                           January 1- December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

A1      Avian Influenza
AIDS    Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy, 2003-2005
CDC     Center for Disease Control
CEP     Chinese Experts Panel
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy, 2006-2010
DFID    United Kingdom Department for International Development
FLO     Foreign Loan Office, Ministry of Health
GOC     Government of China
HERO    Health Emergency Response Office (of MOH)
H N     Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA     International Development Association
JSDF    Japan Social Development Fund
MAD     Medical Assistance Department (of MOH)
MDG     Millennium Development Goals
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOH     Ministry of Health
MOP     Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (World Bank)
PDO     Program Development Objectives
PIP     Program Implementation Plan
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
QOE     Quality on Entry
RMB     Renminbi (Currency of the People's Republic of China)
SARS    Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
TB      Tuberculosis
n L     Task Team Leader
WHO     World Health Organization


                        Vice President: James Adams, EAPVP
                      Country Director: David R. Dollar, EACCF
                       Sector Manager: Fadia Saadah, EASHD
                 Program Team Leader: Shiyong Wang, EASHD
                     ICR Team Leader: Ian P. Monis, Consultant to EASHD

                                                      CHINA
 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ("SARS") And Infectious Diseases Response Program



                                                  CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Ras~cI~lformation
   B. Key Dates
   C: . Ratlngs Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Rank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
    H. Restnich~nng
    !. D~sbursen~entGraph

  1. Program Context. Development Objectives and Design......................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementationand Outcomes...........................................................                         6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................................11
  4. Assessment of Risk to DevelopmentOutcome .....................................................................15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 15
  6.Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencieaartners .......................20
  Annex 1.Program Costs and Financing....................................................................................22
  Annex 2.Outputs by Component..............................................................................................23
  Annex 3.Economic and Financial Analysis.............................................................................30
  Annex 4.Bank Lending and ImplementationSupportJSupervisionProcesses .........................31
  Annex 5.Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................................ 33
  Annex 6. StakeholderWorkshop Report and Results.............................................................. 33
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR andlor Comments on Draft ICR.................................. 34
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other PartnersIStakeholders....................................43
  Annex 9. List of SupportingDocuments...................................................................................46
  MAP CHN33387


                                                                      iSARS and Infectious


              .-- -..-.-.

                                                                           ..............    .... ..... .




Original Total                  .5
                                            DisbursedAmount: USD12.3 1million
Commitment:              (XDR8.1 million)

'EnvironmentalCategory:
 implementation Agency:



UK, Canada, Japan



                                                                                       HevisedJActual




                                   id-termReview:




iC.2 Detailed Ratings of Rank and Borrower Performance (by-. ICR)
                                       -.       -                             -
                                                                                                         ._.


                                                ..-....-.-.  ..-..-...                   ...




Overall Bank                                     verall Borrower
Performance:             Satisfactory          'Performance:              'Satisfactory

1                                                            :   Original      1     Actual                 1
I-- 1                                                                                                    I
 Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)                  1
                              --            ---I---..--..    A                          ...-..I..--.-
1                                                                              I



                                                                                                           I
         Code (PrimaryISecondary)                                              1
                                   --------                                                           --
                                                                               I


IE. Bank Staff
I                                                                                                       1
                            I
          Positions                     At ICR
                                            - -                i         At Approval
                                                              -




 F. ResultsFramework Analysis

 Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

 The objective of the Program is to (1) address emergency needs for SARS-related diagnosis,
 clinical management, and personal protection that are necessary to bring the current epidemic
 fully under control; and (2) support the Government's efforts to strengthen the capacity of the
 public health system more generally so that China's health system is prepared to combat the
possible re-emergence of SARS and, equally important, similar infectious disease threats that
 might occur in the future.

 Revised Project Development Objectives(as approved by original approving authority)

 The Program Objectives were not formallyrevised, and the final indicators vary slightly from the
 ones in the MOP. The indicators were updated (see 2.3) at the time the closing date was extended.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                         - . - * . -    -
                                        Original Target         Formally         Actual Value
                                         Values (from             Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value
                                           approval                Target       Completionor
                                          dockments)               ~ a l i e s   ~ a r g eYears
                                                                                          t
              SARS morbidity and mortality m highly affected areas reduced and exportation
Indicator 1 : of SARS cases from these areas minimized within the first six months after
                                                                    deaths
                                                                    -               ...    - - .-


              Guangdong: 58/1512
              Tianjin: 14/175                                                 'Thelast case of
              Hebei: 12/215                                                   iSARS was
              Henan: 0/15                                                     ;identifiedas the
              Mongolia: 28/282                                                ;projectwas
              Shanxi: 241448                                                  .approved-
              Guanxi: 3/22                                                    !althoughthis could
              This accounted for 97%                                          mot be known ex
              of cases and 94% of                                             iante
              deaths nationally.

Date achieved         7/1012003                                                    1213112006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
              Disease surveillanceand reporting system improved especially for SARS and
Indicator 2 : other infectiousdiseases: web-based diseasereporting system coverage,and rate
              of under-reporting
                                                                              'Establishedweb-
                                                                              lbasedreal-time
                                                                              ,nationaldisease
                                                                              reporting covering
              There was no national                                            100%of provincial
               computerized disease                                           facilities,95% of
Value         reporting system.                                               county facilities
quantitativeor Disease reportingtook                                          and over 76% of
Qualitative)   over 12 days and rate of                                       township level
               under-reporting(national                                       ~facilities.Average
               sampling data) was 8%                                          diseasereporting
                                                                              delays reduced to
                                                                              3.6 days and under-


Date achieved         7/10/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Rndicator
.-..                                 : provinceshavesetup
                      .............    --- ................................                      . . . . . . . . . . - . . . . - - . . . - . . . . . . . . . . - - . - - . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                                                                                                                                All provinces have
                                                                                                                                                                                set up alert system
                                                                                                                                                                                    covering 25 key
                                                                                                                                                                                    disease indicators
!Value
                                       No national alert system                                                                                                                     categorized into 3
!quantitativeor
                                       iexisted                                                                                                                                     broad categories to
IQualitative)
                                                                                                                                                                                     serve as early




                                                                               ......  -..........................




                                       !likewomen, floating population and the poor, etc. by health promotion, messages
;Indicator4 :
                                       rdeveloped and delivered under the program: coverage of IEC, level of



                                                                                                                                                                                   provinces indicated
                                                                                                                                                                                !somebehavior
                                                                                                                                                                                    change in targeted
                                                                                                                                                                                    vulnerable groups
    Value                              'Littlehealth promotion
                                                                                                                                                                                     for hand-washing:
     quantitative or land no data available on
                                                                                                                                                                                    before meals
IQualitative)                          'scaleand effectiveness
                                                                                                                                                                                     increased (40% to
                                                                                                                                                                               :54%),and after
                                                                                                                                                                                ,usingbathroom



                                                                                                                                                                                                      . . .




!achievement)
----p-..----..--..---                                                                ..  ....... .-.........             ........                                        .................         ....
                                       ~TOdeepenhealth reform, policies and strategies are developed on the basis of
Zndicator 5 : experiences learnt from SARS control practices, e.g.: to improve health
                                       'financingin rural areas: # of policies developedby the program.
                                                                                                                                                                                    54 public health
                                                                                                                                                                                   poGcies/strategies
    'Value
                                                                                                                                                                                   developed (at
    quantitative or ,None
                                                                                                                                                                                   national and
     qualitative)
                                                                                                                                                                                  provincial level
                                                                                                                                                                                     focused on        )


    Comments
~(incl.%
lachievement)

@) IntermediateOutcomeIndicator(s)

                                          Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                               Formal,y
                                           Values (from                      Achieved at
  Indicator        Baseline Value                               Kc,iSed
                                             approval                       Completion or
                                           documents)       'TargetValues' Target years




G.Ratings of Project Performancein ISRs



Reporting on the SARS activities through ISRs was through an ongoing health Project (P003566).
The numbers in parenthesis are the ISR numbers for the health Project.



                                                                              Actual
         Date TSR
 No.                                                                      Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                          (USD millions)




H. Restructuring(if any)
Not Applicable

I. DisbursementProfile




                        Annual Disbursed Total


   8000000
   7000000
   6000000

   5000000
   4000000

   3000000
   2000000

   1000000                                     5,559.29
          0
              2003    2004    2005      2006

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Program was developed by Government and appraised by the Bank in less than two months
(under Bank Emergency Recovery Assistance Procedures - OP 8.50). This was in response to an
urgent request by the Government of China (GOC) in May 2003 for immediate assistance to deal
with a dramatically escalating public health crisis caused by the Severe Acute Respiratory
Syndrome (SARS) epidemic. The sudden and dramatic onset of SARS -- a newly identified
zoonotic disease of epidemic proportions -- created an unexpected and severe threat to people's
health (including a high death rate) as well as to China's continued rapid economic development.
First identified in Guangdong, China in November 2002 it had spread to 26 provinceslregions in
mainland China as well as to Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and Taiwan, China.
Further, the future scale and duration of the epidemic was extremely uncertain. It was clearly
recognized by GOC (and participating development partners) that a failure to bring SARS under
control could result in further significant spread of the disease with both domestic and global
economic implications - including unprecedented disruption to domestic and international
movement of people and of trade. Further, GOC recognized it had limited surveillance, clinical
management, and response capacity to deal with infectious disease epidemics particularly in its
vast rural areas as a consequence of past limited investments.

GOC therefore attached the greatest importance to SARS prevention and control. SARS
prevention became the top priority for government at all levels. Central government had worked
out the strategy of "Setting up Emergency Alert Response Mechanisms, Implementing Effective
Prevention and Control, and Strengthening Collaboration with International Society" as the way
forward. A series of new policies and guidelines had been developed and measures implemented
including: (a) establishing a national command office to guide the response; (b) establishing a
RMB 2 billion ($242 million) SARS response fund; and (c) listed SARS as a legally notifiable
infectious disease.

The State Council had spelled out the priority work that needed to be implemented urgently. This
included: (a) ensuring all reporting health facilities sent daily reports (even if zero) of SARS
cases to generate reliable and timely data as a basis for effective and targeted response measures;
(b) strengthening supervision on SARS prevention and control; (c) coordinating SARS scientific
research (including improved cooperation with the international community) to identify effective
preventive measures; (d) strengthening support to the potentially more vulnerable provinceslrural
areas in the middle and western regions and guaranteeing free SARS treatment and care for the
poor; (e) strengthening overall collaboration with the international community; and (f)
publicizing government policies and decisions, and disseminating information on the Law on
Infectious Diseases and relevant preventionslprecautions.

While these collective actions had resulted in a significant progress in SARS prevention and
control, particularly in Guangdong Province and Beijing, SARS still represented a serious
challenge. As a new disease, the GOC remained unclear about the disease's pathogenesis, and
epidemiological nature. There were no specific and effective diagnostic methods or treatment
regimens. There was serious risk that SARS may spread to the vast rural areas, or become
endemic and reoccur seasonally. GOC recognized that the epidemic had placed in stark relief the
general lack of preparedness of China to cope with a rapidly moving infectious disease crisis
despite its size resources. Specifically, the crisis demonstrated that there were major deficiencies

in the health system's abilityboth to detect,and mount timely responses to new infectious disease
threats.

 In the context of the emergency response the Bank made very special arrangements to finance
the IDA share of this "Program" in full consultation with, and at the request of GOC. Strictly
speakingit is not a stand alone IDA financed Program. The expenditureprogram was financed by
amending (and extending where applicable) eight existing IDA Projects (from various sectors)to
add a SARS component. In 2 extraordinary cases, already closed projects were reopened prior to
their amendment and extension. In addition to IDA financing, the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) and United Kingdom Department for International Development
(DFID) and a Japan SocialDevelopment Fund Grant (JSDF) jointly financed the "Program" IDA
managed Trust Funds

Bank's Rationale for Involvement

The rationale for Bank involvementin the program was extremely strong. Firstly, SARS had both
major national and global implications for population health and economic activity. The potential
disruption to labor and trade and hence to the Chinese and regional economies was very
significant. Secondly,the SARS epidemic had rocked China to its foundations with the dramatic
realization by the leadership that this was a policy and government failure which needed to be
redressed quickly and decisively in order to protect its citizenry and for China to be doing its part
to prevent its global spread. In aslung for urgent support from the Bank China aimed at (a)
accessing global knowledge; (b) getting assistance in preparing a program to enable it to
adequatelyrespond to the crisis; and (c) demonstratingits increased openness and transparency in
working with international community on this issue. In this context, the Bank responded quickly
to client needs.

Thirdly, rural health was well known to be in a poor state, particularly in the poorer provinces of
Middle and Western China - assistance to health was an identified priority in the Country
Assistance Strategy 2003 - 2005 (CAS), and the subsequent Country Partnership Strategy 2006-
2010 (CPS), and in prior Bank economic and sector work. The need to: (a) strengthen the
relationship between levels of government; (b) achieve the Millennium Development Goals
(MDG) (which include reduction in infectious diseases); (c) to respond to demand driven
knowledge; and (d) encourage increased use of local experts as a means of increasing capacity
were also themes of the Bank's CAS and CPS in China. Fourthly, fhther investments in public
health were clearly justified on public finance criteria as they had strong public good
characteristics (information required for action and strong positive externalities through
prevention and control). It was also expected that experience and insights gained through the
Program would also feed into longer term initiatives that could be focused on the broader health
sectorreform and development agenda.

Finally, the Bank had significant experience in putting programs together quickly, including in
emergency situations, while also worlung closely with both government and other interested
development partners. The Bank also had experience and capacity to work at both national and
provincial levels, including established mechanisms to manage hnds flow and procurement. It
also had staff with significant expertise and knowledge of China to manage the program while
also drawing on the technical expertise of other participating agencies, including the World
Health Organization (WHO). GOC, participating development partners and the Bank also
recognized the benefits that would come from a strong partnership reflected in one joint
development partner program supportingthe GOC program responding to the SARSpublic health
crisis.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Program Objective is to (I) address emergency needs for SARS-related diagnosis, clinical
management, and personal protection that are necessary to bring the current epidemic fully under
control; and (2) support the Government's efforts to strengthen the capacity of the public health
system more generally so that China's health system is prepared to combat the possible re-
emergence of SARS and, equally important, similar infectious disease threats that might occur in
the future.

The Short-term Objectives of the ProgramProject Specified that:

Within the initial six months, the Program would focus on:
        a   Monitoring and evaluating SARS related risks and preparedness for combating SARS
            in the provinces that currentlyhave limited epidemics or have reported no cases.
        a   Curbing the further spread of SARS, reducing its incidence in highly affected SARS
            epidemic areas, and minimizing the spread of SARS from these areas to other,
            especially rural, areas.
         a  Improving the clinical management of SARS, thus improving the cure rate and
            lowering the fatality rate.

The Medium-term Objectives of the Program Project Specified that:

Beginning immediately and over the next two years, the Program would:
         a  Strengthen overall capacity for infectious disease prevention and control.
         a  Improve infectious disease surveillance and reporting.
            Set up alert and response mechanismsfor detecting public health crises.
            Improve capacity for operational research on infectious disease prevention and
            control in collaboration with renowned international researchltechnical institutions,
            including WHO.
            Use the lessons learned and experience gained in the Program to inform the process
            of building an adequate public health infrastructure as well as issues of broader health
            sector reform and development.

The Government adopted the following overall program indicators to monitor the program:

 1. SARS morbidity and mortality in highly affected areas reduced and the spread of SARS cases
     from these areas minimized within the first six months after program effectiveness.
2. Infectious disease surveillance and reporting system improved, especially for SARS.
3. An alert and response mechanism for public health emergencies set up.
4. Positive behavior change in targeted groups, focusing on vulnerable population groups
     including women, floating populations and the poor etc., by health promotion messages
     developed and delivered under the program.

The Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MOP) provided the key performance
indicators and recognized that they would need to be refined. The indicators presented in Annex 2
are the ones embodied in the Letter Agreements.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO's for the program were not revised, and the final indicators vary slightly from the ones
in the MOP. The indicatorswere updated (see 2.3) at the time the closing date was extended.

1.4Main Beneficiaries

The Program targeted benefits (i.e. creation of capacity to respond adequately to public health
emergencies) in eight provinces/cities with a total population of 179million (14% estimated poor
and 12%minorities) selected on the basis that one or more of the following criteria were met: (a)
have had, or have, a SARS epidemic underway; (b) are located in the middle or western region
(areas known to be disadvantaged); (c) be a city or province where the local response will
generate indispensable lessons for China andlor internationally; (d) be particularly vulnerable to
SARS type epidemics because of large highly mobile populations, or role as major transport
network center. Work under the Program was designed to generate knowledge to support action
on SARS, and other infectious diseases. This was a particular focus of program activities in
Guandong Province, the worldwide epicenter of the SARS epidemic, and Beijing (a main center
of the epidemic) which were primarily focused on operational research and technical assistance
designed to create critical information drawn from local and international experience to support:
(i) efforts to develop the program in program provinces/cities; (ii) the development of a national
capacity for infectious disease prevention and control; and (iii) provide information for use
internationally (global knowledge).

Investments also focused on the enhancement of institutional capacity to enable the Ministry of
Health (MOH), provinces and lower level authorities in program areas (particularly selected
hospitals, clinics, and Centers for Disease Control (CDCs)) to identify gaps in preparedness for
public health emergency responses and to develop a capacity to appropriately respond through
support to: (i) renovate hospital warddclinics to deal with highly infectious respiratory patients
and establish medical waste management systems in designated hospitals; (ii) develop protocols
for the management and treatment of patients with highly infectious respiratory diseases,
including SARS, and associated training of staff ;(iii) establish the web-based infectious disease
surveillance and case reporting system, through equipment, staff training and consulting support
at all levels of the system; (iv) develop a public health laboratory network capacity to safely
undertake SARS/infectious disease testing; and (v) develop comprehensive health promotion
capacities and programs which were gender sensitive and with a focus on mobile, rural and poor
populations.

1.5 OriginalComponents

Component (1): Program Planning, Coordination and Policy Development. This component
would support activities to: (1) review and take stock of SARS related policies and accumulated
experience, including the provision of fiee treatment for the poor, in part to determine lessons for
other, more general public health programs and policies, e.g., for TB and HIV/AIDS, and assess
the extent and nature of SARS related determinants (public health, socio-economic, financial
baniers to accessing health care especially for the poor and vulnerable) in both affected and non-
affected areas; (2) identify gaps in preparedness and local responses in addressing
SARS/infectious diseases issues and develop andlor revise protocols for emergency responses to
SARS and other similar outbreaks; (3) hold international and national workshops, seminars and
conferences that involve exchanges of information and the sharing of best practices with respect
to addressing SARS and related public health challenges that include integrating gender concerns

into health policy; (4) plan and implement supervision efforts and domestic and international
technical assistance, drawing upon technical input from WHO and other centers of international
expertise; and (5) supportthe dissemination and implementationof operational research findings

Component (2): Clinical Management of SARS Patients. This component would provide
support to: (1) establish fever clinics where needed in selected medical institutions; (2) renovate
designated SARS hospitals and wards in provincial capitals and selected prefectures in
accordancewith appropriateinfectious disease control standards; (3) train male and female health
care workers on SARSIinfectious disease diagnosis and treatment; (4) strengthen personal
protection measures for health care workers in order to minimize hospital infections in both
patients and health care workers; (5) provide emergency supplies of consurnables, medical
equipment, and appropriate vehicles for transporting SARS patients; (6) undertake regular
supervision to evaluate compliance with MOH guidelines on the clinical management of SARS
and hospital infection control for SARS and other related infectious diseases; and (7) carry out
operationalresearch.

Component (3): Disease Prevention and Control, with a focus on SARS and Other
Infectious Diseases. This component would: (1) strengthen disease surveillance and case
reporting systems; (2) strengthen the laboratory network development for SARSIinfectious
diseases surveillance; (3) cany out gender sensitive health promotion activities to, among other
things, improve general awareness on preventing infection as well as reduce fear and
stigmatization associated with SARSIinfectious diseases; and (4) train Ministry of Health
Communicable Disease Center staff in field epidemiology, contact tracing, case reporting and
ensure the implementationof these activities.

1.6Revised Components

The formal componentsof the program were not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

The PDOs and components did not change, however the scope, scale and emphasis of individual
activities within the components evolved in response to: (a) the fact that the SARS epidemic
waned; (b) the original implementation timetable had proved ambitious; (c) technical assistance
activities under the program had suggested increased emphasis in some areas (e.g. establishment
of a national laboratory network) and some technical assistance activities took longer to
implement than planned; (d) there were some savings; and (e) foreign exchange gains in
US$ terms. The extension enabled additional training and capacity building activities to be
undertaken, technical assistance and operation research to be completed and, significantly,more
time for expert panels and seminars to be used to review policylprotocols etc. and to disseminate
experiencesacross the Programprovinces.

Closing Date Extensions. The closing date was extended for 12months (all six IDA credits and
the one of the two trust funds financing the program were adjusted by varying periods) to allow
for full achievementsof Program objectives.

2. Key Factors AffectingImplementationand Outcomes

2.1 Program Preparation,Design and Qualityat Entry

The Program was prepared in seven weeks under Bank Emergency Recovery Assistance
procedures (OP 8.50) in response to the dramatic explosion of the SARS epidemic as noted in
Context of Appraisal (1.1 above). The GOC took the decision at the highest levels that it needed
to: (a) take immediate and unprecedented action to deal with the potentially catastrophic effects
of a sustained SARS epidemic on both the population and the economyltrade more generally; (b)
develop capacity to deal with public health emergencies more generally and (c) mobilize
international donor support, access to global knowledge on SARSIinfectious diseases and a
mechanism to bring local and national experts together to deal with the crisis. To give effect to
this the GOC immediately established strong program preparation teams at the national and
provincial levels to work with the Bank (WHO and other development partners). The MOH
became responsible for the program under the direction of the National Command Center of the
State Council.

Thus the Program, its focus and scope, had extremely high ownership by GOC, including the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), MOH and the Program provincial authorities. The level of ownership
and commitment to accessing global knowledge and determination to "learn by doing" in
addressing the crisis by GOC is hdamental to understanding the overall quality of program
design and subsequent implementation success. Government teams and the Bank team worked
collaboratively around the clock (often by video conferencing between Beijing and Washington
because the teams were constrained by restrictions on and potential dangers of travel) to prepare
respectively the Program ImplementationPlan and the Bank's "appraisal" document.

The Program was also built on the foundations of a well-established relationship with GOC as a
consequence of previous projects and sector work (including in the Program provinces). The
Bank team working with the Foreign Loan Office of MOH (FLO) was respected and
acknowledged for its capacity to: (i) assist in Program design; (ii) conduct policy dialogue; (iii)
focus GOCMOH efforts on both immediate and the more strategic longer term outcomes; and
(iv) apply lessons fiom past Chinese and global experience.

Lessons incorporated in the Program design included:
    the need for emergency programs to be strategically focused on outcomes - both immediate
    and medium term -but with enough flexibility to respond to potentially rapidly evolving and
    uncertain circumstances;
    the desirability of seizing the opportunity to enhance national institutional capacity to deal
     with (in this case) strengthened capacity for infectious disease prevention and control while
    dealing with the specificsof the SARS epidemic.
    the importance of ensuring global knowledge is brought to bear on both technical and
    capacity buildinglsustainability aspects of the program while blending it with local
    knowledge involving Chinese Expert Panels (CEP) in program design, implementation
     (including technical studies),monitoringand evaluation;
     the importance in design of strong central leadership and close supportive supervision at the
    provincial level by MOH (supported by Bank supervision) to ensure program success fiom a
    policy, technical, resource mobilizationand allocationperspective.
     identifying and distinguishing the inter-dependenceof program components (fiom a timing,
     technical content and the communications/collaboration perspective) required for those

    involved in the planning, technical content and implementation of the various program
    components; including their links across levels of government.
    Recognition of the need to overcome the social and economic obstacles in access to health
    care among the vulnerable and poor.

Program preparation and appraisal by the Bank was led by a sector specialist and colleagues
(including support from locally based staff from WHO, CIDA and DFID) well versed with both
the technical issues and with the on-ground situation in the health sector. The Bank's Country
Director provided continued strategic guidance and active support to the preparation team by
leading high level dialogue with GOC -- particularly the MOF. Two key decisions by GOCNOF
arising from this dialogue were critical for program preparation (and implementation): (i) the
high level agreement on the rationale for the program and acknowledgement that there was a
critical need to invest in these critical public health functions which had been neglected
historically; and (ii) agreement that the MOF would assume the repayments for the IDA credits
expended at the provincial level and thus converting the credits to grants from the perspective of
provincial authorities - all of whom were in the impoverished Middle and Western provinces of
China.

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not review quality-at-entry.

Safeguards. The program components and activities were explicitly designed to deal with
potential environmental and social concerns from the outset during implementation. At entry the
potential environmental impacts of the program were adjudged limited in scope although this
probably underestimated some aspects of the development of laboratory capacity to deal with
potentially dangerous viruses. Nevertheless risks were mitigated by agreements to establish WHO
recommended guidelines on hospital waste management and WHOIinternational best practice in
dealing with the SARS virus (in hospitals and laboratories) in the context of uncertainty about
what constituted best practice for dealing with SARS.         Recognizing that SARS made no
distinctions in terms of socio-economic status, gender, ethnic origin etc, social concerns were
explicitly addressed by commissioning Operational Research to influence detailed design of
program activities to ensure the poor could gain access to health services and deal with potential
uneven gender impact of the epidemic arising from women and girls as care givers.

There were no land acquisitions or resettlements involved in the program. Procurement and
financial management capacity within FLO and involved provinces were adjudged adequate to
manage the program based on past health sector experience, particularly with the strong
commitment of GOC to implement the program with due diligence.

Risk Assessment. The assumptions made at appraisal reflected detailed understanding of past
performance in the sector. The program foresaw the need to be flexible in detailed activity design
inherent in emergency response projects (considerably enhanced by the very real ex ante
uncertainty of the likely scale and direction of the SARS epidemic) while also remaining
steadfastly focused on the agreed strategic objectives of each component. Provisions were made
for considerable national and international technical assistance, expert panels, seminars and
operational research at all government levels to create and underpin internal dialogue on the best
way forward. Significant training assisted sustainability and capacity development.         Clear
attention was given to potential environmental issues in program implementation.              The
agreements to explicitly contract WHO (as the premier world health-technicalagency) under the
Program was a significant risk mitigation measure by ensuring global knowledge was brought to
bear on the program during implementation. It also facilitated continued international dialogue
on various aspects of the Program.        However, a clearer focus on the likely impact on

implementation schedules of the need for counterpart funds would have reduced some program
delays. In hindsight, it is evident that some of the activity targets set for the initial 3-6 months
(relating to operational research and technical assistance) and the overall scale of implementation
envisaged were ambitious for the activities to be supported in a two year program - though
waning of the epidemic reduced some of the immediate pressure on Government.

2.2 Implementation

Factors Outside the Control of Government Implementing Agency. No major factors outside
the control of government negatively affected program implementation. The early waning of the
epidemic meant communications and ability to travel did not affect implementation schedules.
The emergence of Avian Influenza (AI) in 2004, another emergent zoonotic disease with major
global implications, positively reinforced the need for improved surveillance and emergency
response capacity in China. Contracting delays within WHO delayed some technical assistance.

Factors Subject to Government Control. Firstly, the highest levels of government endorsed the
Program and enacted the Law on Infectious Diseases Prevention and Control which provided a
clear signal, not only to MOH, but to all relevant agencies, about the seriousness with which
China intended to deal with the SARS crisis and public health emergencies. Secondly, MOH and
GOC more generally, wanted to create a more open environment with improved transparency,
including reaching out to global (and local) expertise and experience while developing a wide
range of strategic policies, regulations and contingency plans. A clear program of capacity
building for (a) infectious disease management and infection control in hospitals; and (b)
infectious disease outbreak identification, responding to outbreaks was identified. Leadership
ensured there was a keen awareness of and commitment to implement the program by officials at
all government levels. This was reinforced by the decision of MOF to assume the repayment
obligations for IDA credits on behalf of provinces (for the first time and as a special
circumstance). Thirdly, however, shortfalls in counterpart funding by provinces (all relatively
poor), prior to amendments to the Program Agreements providing for 100 percent development
partner financing of costs delayed implementation.

Factors generally subject to implementation agency control. MOH established the necessary
institutional and coordination arrangements to ensure the smooth implementation of the Program
notwithstanding its complexity. Program management capacity in FLO was significant given its
past experience with Bank projects - including at sub-national levels and in the poorer provinces.
Thus there was relatively effective program management and coordination between the eight
participating provinceslcities. The preparation of annual implementation plans (which enabled
detailed design to be undertaken as the program evolved) and reporting on their implementation
progress by participating agencies was by-and-large thorough and timely. This can be attributed
to both the performance of the implementing entities and to FLO as national coordinator of the
Program.     Technical assistance, operational research and policy dialogue enabled major
challenges to be identified, lessons learned and dealt with during implementation. Delays in
implementation and the need to extend the program (due in part to counterpart funds needs,
delays in technical assistance, time required for policy dialogue and training) were perhaps
inevitable given the 2-year time frame of the Program. An improved focus on performance
indicators and their systematic monitoring would have improved this otherwise sound
performance.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

A program-based M&E system was designed at appraisal and enhanced by Government during
implementation - principally as the detailed annual implementation plans were developed and
their performance reviewed. The Program performance indicators adequately measured progress
towards meeting PDOs given available data systems. Additionally, various Program elements
were designed to develop information, provide for its analysis and use as a monitoring tool, and
to draw out implications for subsequent program design. Nevertheless, an improved focus on the
use of the formal monitoring indicators and outcomes by each level of government and improved
timeliness of reports could have warned of implementation delays more quickly. The core list of
Program indicators were updated at program extension to reflect progress and changes in
emphasis resulting from the fact the SARS epidemic had waned.

A Program objective was the development of an M&E framework for monitoring, evaluating and
responding to SARS and other infectious disease epidemics. The existing knowledge of SARS
(or infectious diseases), including knowledge of the denominator, was poorly understood in China
at program design. The architecture for a new web-based national infectious disease monitoring
system (with equipment and training support in program provinces) was established in a
remarkably short period of time and was another important input to program monitoring. The on-
going challenge for the newly created Health Emergency Response Office (HERO) will be to
enhance the quality of the data being collected overtime - particularly from the lower levels of
the health system.

The FLO and implementing entities also used the supervision dialogue and aides memoir as an
important program monitoring and evaluation tool. The policy dialogue with appropriately
staffed supervision missions, and their input to key seminars held during missions designed to
distill the results of technical assistance and draw lessons from across the country, were a major
M&E tool for Government (and were identified as such at appraisal). Increased focus on Program
indicators by missions and government to measure Program progress would have helped
government at all levels focus on outputs and outcomes. Government's evaluation also
acknowledged that its management and supervision of technical assistance needs to be improved
in the future.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment. The program's environmental impact was substantially positive. The designated
Program SARS hospital wardslfever clinics now have: (a) significantly improved medical waste
disposal arrangements in place; (b) renovated wards able to cater for infectious disease patients;
and (c) significantly improved infectious disease policies and regulations (with standards
consistent with WHO guidelines) developed and in place. These are now to be applied across the
country.

Laboratory capacity within the CDC in program provinceslcities were also enhanced under the
program and the concept of a public health laboratory network was initiated as a result of
program activities. This development of core infrastructure is critical for enabling GOC to mount
a sound response to epidemics - viruseslorganisms involved need to be isolated and detected.
MOH did not have an adequate system of categorizing and monitoring laboratory capacity and
bio-safety standards. Such development of laboratories in the context of a national network was
not specifically identified during program preparation. Laboratory enhancement would normally
have been rated at least an environmental category B, if not A, under a non-emergency health

program within the Bank. Notwithstanding this observation, the program has assisted CDC to
develop laboratory standards, consistent with WHO guidelines, together with a system of
accreditation. While all laboratories do not yet meet all standards (relevant to its category)
substantial progress has been made in an area where little attention was given previously. WHO
cited this as one of the major achievements of the Program.

Auditing Requirements.         Adequate program accounts were maintained by each program
implementation entity and no major problems were identified. Technically, as discussed, the
program was funded from component "Z" of 8 separate IDA projects which were amended to
enable the Program to be funded together with 2 separate donor funded trust funds. No problems
were identified in the audits of either the part "Z" of the 8 projects or of the 2 donor funded trust
funds (which included one "pooled" fund trust fund).

Procurement.       Despite an overall positive implementation/procurement progress, some
procurement issues were identified.        National Expert Panels were involved in equipment
specification (a lesson learned from past projects). Some delays were experienced due in part to
inexperience and occasional confusion about responsibilities for procurement in this program.
These were also related to procurement with UN agencies (WHO) that delayed the processing of
such contracts

2.5 Post-completion OperationINextPhase

Investments in infectious disease surveillance, management and response capability in emergency
cases has been entirely inadequate in the past. The Program has assisted in the establishment of
basic institutional architecture to identify and respond to infectious disease outbreaks in program
provinces/cities. GOC, MOH, health workers, and the public more generally, have improved
knowledge about the importance of responding decisively to infectious disease outbreaks and
public health emergencies. This will contribute significantly to sustainability of program
achievements. In addition to Program financing, the GOC and provinces/cities have invested and
plan to sustain very significant expenditures in these areas - including sustaining the infectious
disease monitoring system, emergency supply and response capability, laboratory network and
improved practices in infectious disease and waste management practices in hospitals.
Coordination capacity, within a framework of appropriate law and regulations, has been
strengthened.

The enactment of new laws, policies and regulation (which typically adopt international W O ]
guidelines) governing relevant technical areas provide the basis for on-going institutional
development of these functions and activities. They empower individual agencies and officials to
take actions which simply did not exist before. GOC now clearly recognizes investments in these
types of public goods are essential to China's development and duty of care for its population.
Networks of professionals (both national and international) with skills and capability in these
public health areas have begun to be established to support government capacity. The increased
openness and transparency with which GOC deals with its population and the international
community on SARS, and more recently AI, auger well for the sustainability of program
outcomes. Program investments in technical assistance, enabled by a willingness to seek global
best practice, and training have also helped to greatly improve institutionalcapacities

This was an emergency response program of initially only 2%years duration which was extended
to 3%years. It would be wrong to expect fully operational systems of best practice standards to
be achieved across these complicated and sometimes highly technical public health areas in such

a short period of time; much more needs to be done. A greater emphasis on quality and standards
needs to be the focus of future national efforts. A follow-on project would be consisteilt with the
CSP and could assist GOC, and the poorer provinces, to more fully institutionalize program
achievements and focus on the quality agenda. Health authorities in participating provinces were
keen for a follow-on program (particularly if the national government assumed repayment
obligations to the Bank) because projects provided a unique platform for cross provincial
dialogue, increased access to training and technical assistance to enhance capacities.


3. Assessment of Outcomes


3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of the program as appraised continue to be relevant to both current country and
global priorities as well as to the Bank's CPS for China. As an emergency program, responding
to the SARS emergency, and also as part of a response to the global crisis caused by SARS, the
objectives of the program were also timely and soundly based. The emergence of A1 in 2004
reinforced the importance of developing capacity to identify, manage, prevent and monitor
infections diseases more generally and not just responding to SARS as a once off crisis. China, in
asking for assistance from the Bank (and other partners), was not only responding to the needs of
its own population but was also responding to increasing international calls to be open and
transparent in dealing with its infectious disease outbreaks, and particularly the SARS outbreak.

The program design remained consistent with Bank priorities through both the CAS and the CPS
periods which both recognized the importance of: (i) health and all-round social progress and
barriers to services; (ii) the need to strengthen sub-national financing and cooperative
arrangements between levels of government; (iii) addressing the needs of the poor, including the
lagging regions; (iv) sustainable environmental policies; and (v) the need to create demand-driven
knowledge and increased use of local and international experts to build sustainable programs. The
objectives of the program were also consistent with the Millennium Development Goals and their
focus on reduced infectious diseases.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
ICR Rating: Overall Achievement of Program Development Objectives is Satisfactory.

The objective of the proposed Program was to: (1) address emergency needs for SARS-related
diagnosis, clinical management, and personal protection that are necessary to bring the current
epidemic fully under control; and (2) support the Government's efforts to strengthen the capacity
of the public health system more generally so that China's health system is prepared to combat
the possible re-emergence of SARS and. equally important, similar infectious disease threats that
might occur in the future.


(a)   Program Planning, Coordination and Policy Development. At the outset the eight
Program provinces/cities (or China) did not have an appropriate policyllegal framework or
protocols to deal with infectious disease outbreaks like SARS. As a short term response, all
Program provinces (less extensively in Inner Mongolia) and the National Government developed
emergency response protocols relating to the handling of SARS specific outbreaks based on
operational research and dialogue within China and knowledge from international best practice.
Starting from scratch, provinces now have a system for stockpiling critical stocks of
SARSIinfectious disease-related supplies with which to mount first wave responses to outbreaks.

Local and national authorities recognize that these systems remain fragile and that they have to
further develop replenishment systems -particularly those that have a limited shelf life.

In the medium term, in order to lay the foundations for a policy and legal framework for a
infectious disease response system, the Program provided for operational research to learn lessons
from the SARS experience to determine best practices with the objective of also: (a) drawing out
the wider applications of this experience to public health emergencies; and (b) disseminating the
results across all program provinceslcities and with Beijing based national authorities. An
extensive array of operational research was undertaken on the SARS experience (including by
WHO) together with an extensive review of international best practice. This formed the basis of
extensive dialogue across provinces and implementation entities through seminars, workshops
and meetings of national expert panels (supported by international and national technical
assistance). Significant effort was given to the policy and legal framework for responding to
infectious disease emergencies. Some 76 new rules/protocols (68 at provincial level) were
developed from scratch and another 4 regulations were substantially reformulated with Program
support.

Within the framework of Program objectives a process of detailed annual plans was developed by
implementing agencies to reflect implementation progress and adjust to new realities arising and
policy work being developed under the program. These were critical for managing and
monitoring the program and some agencies (e.g., Medical Assistance Department (MAD)) saw
the value of this being extended past the program completion and the scope expanded to cover
national programs.

(b) Clinical Management of SARS Patients. The Program provinces had severely limited
hospital (or clinic) capacity to provide quality clinical care to SARS or other highly infectious
respiratory patients. Hospital infection control standards were either outdated or did not exist.
Staff were not trained in proper personal protection (or provided with equipment/supplies) for
dealing with highly infectious diseases. Hospital waste management systems were unsafe and
haphazard. Medical staff were poorly equipped to diagnose and treat (or transport) highly
infectious respiratory patients. Immediate actions included creating designated SARS
hospitalslwards (for at least 200 probable and 200 suspected cases) in Program provinces and
establishing capacity for providing quality clinical care to highly infectious respiratory patients-

including providing for their isolation. Program support included ward renovations to improve
hospital infection control standards, equipment, training and works to establish safe hospital
waste disposal systems in designated SARS hospitals.

Standards for hospitals and fever clinics were established with Program support based on WHO
guidelines for hospital infection control. An initial system for their monitoring has also been
established within MAD. This is a major achievement as only limited and outdated policies
andfor a legal framework existed prior to this. The Program also enable expert panels, technical
assistance and support for seminars, meetings and training programs to be used to support
institutional capacity development in these areas. It is recognized that some of these systems may
yet be fragile and in need of further enhancement, particularly with a focus on quality aspects but
a lot has been accomplished in 3% years and there remains a firm commitment in MAD and
provinces to try and sustain the achievements to date.

Training guidelines for hospital and clinic staff to diagnose, treat, and transport SARS, A1 and
other infectious diseases patients were developed with Program support. A total of 58 training
sessions covering 15,700 staff (37% female) were conducted. Training evaluations indicate a
high level of satisfaction with the training and report significant increases in knowledge and

capacity of staff to diagnose, treat and manage highly infectious patients. No health workers in
any designated hospital were reported infected by SARS or other similar infectious diseases after
the program was launched.

(c) Disease Prevention and Control with Focus on SARS and other Infectious Diseases.
China had limited staff or systems capacity to undertake even basic SARSI infectious disease
surveillance and reporting on a timely basis - particularly at local government levels. Many
provincial public health and hospital laboratories were poorly equipped to handle pathogens like
SARS Corona virus, laboratory standards and bio-safety protocols were outdated, and staff were
inadequately trained. Further, knowledge among populations most at risk fiom SARSIinfectious
diseases including mobile populations, mothers and the poor had limited knowledge of infectious
diseases and how they might protect themselves or reduce the risk of infection by simple behavior
change.

Initially the Program focused staff training and equipment support for infectious disease
surveillance and reporting. The MOH quickly decided to establish a national alert and response
network while the program was implemented. In order to improve the effectiveness of the system,
the Program focused on staff training and limited equipment support for infectious disease
surveillance and reporting. In the program provinces, a web-based real time national disease
reporting system covering 100% of provincial facilities, 95% of county facilities and 76% of
township level facilities was established by the time of the program was completed. Average
disease reporting delays were reduced from 12 to 3.6 days and surveys suggest under-reporting
was reduced to about 3 percent. CDC Staff can undertake analysis of disease patterns in their
local area and no longer need to wait for top down reporting of results. Equipment and training
support in Program provinces enhanced their capacity to respond to outbreaks and send out field
investigators with the requisite skills. Almost 35,000 staff in CDCs and hospitals, covering all
Program provinces have been trained for SARSIinfectious disease surveillance and reporting.
With WHO'S program financed technical assistance, the program piloted an early warning system
for infectious diseases, syndromic surveillance. Valuable lessons were learnt for improving
 sensitivity of outbreak identification, eventual development of Country Outbreak Alert and
Response Network. The core architecture of the system is now in place - a truly remarkable
achievement. Further work is required in improving the shlls of health staff diagnosing diseases
and entering the data. Improved syndromic surveillance and quality control of data entry remain
 a challenge. It is estimated that about 50 percent of infectious disease outbreaks are now
 identified by the web-based system.

 An initial program activity aimed to upgrade eight provincial public health laboratories - one for
 each program provincelcity   -  with accreditation by MOH consistent with WHO guidelines for
 laboratories. Project financed WHO technical assistance recommended and China agreed, to the
 establishment of a national laboratory network. Support for this was included for implementation
 in Program provinces for the program extension period including the development of national
protocols for establishing and evaluating a national pathogenic microbiological network based on
 internationally recognized standards. This remains a major achievement which will have long
 standing benefits to the public health system well beyond the initial objectives of the program.

A significant multi-medialchannel communication campaign was implemented with some
targeting to those identified as being more vulnerable. This included information that health
 services would be provided fiee for SARS patients. It appears that general knowledge in the
public and in vulnerable groups were improved somewhat            -  for instance research in two
provinces indicate hand-washing before meals increased from 40% to 54% and after using the
bathroom increased from 43% to 59%. Capacity for health promotion was improved in the

program provinces. For instance, Beijing established a clearing house for collecting, screening,
analyzing, and storing different IEC materials for later easy reference and health promotion
network covering all its districts and counties. On the other hand, a clearer focus on behavior
change with a more rigorous focus on what communication channels were worlung for which
groups could have improved results.


3.3 Efficiency

No formal economic analysis was calculated for the program at the time of its preparation and
available data were insufficient to carry out detailed economic analysis of the program at closing.
Nevertheless, potential economic and social costs of a SARS or other infectious disease
epidemics such as A1 are known to be very substantial, even potentially catastrophic in some
circumstances. Effects on morbidity and mortality can be very significant and the disruption to
trade and labor mobility can drastically affect movement of people and trade.             The costs
associated with developing a national prevention and response capability would appear relatively
small compared to the potential costs of public health emergencies - most of which can be
prevented or significantly contained. The standards developed and incorporated in policy, laws
and regulations/protocols and in renovations, development of hospital waste management systems
etc., are based on international experience and standards relevant to China. Resources available
for technical assistance, operational research and training were not excessively expensive, and
made major contributions to the enhanced capacity to sustain a surveillance and response system.
From a public finance perspective public investment in these activities is fullyjustified because of
the public good nature of the investments. Further, epidemics are more likely to directly affect
the vulnerable and poor.


3.4 Justification of Overall OutcomeRating
Rating: Satisfactory.

The program responded to a major infectious disease epidemic with potentially catastrophic
domestic (and global) public health and economic implications. Public finance for these types of
investment in health is fullyjustified on public good grounds. The program was fully consistent
with the CAS and the subsequent CPS which both emphasized the appropriateness of investments
in public health, the need to sustain economic growth while protecting the poor and vulnerable -
particularly those living in the poorer provinces of China. System architecture for a policyflegal
framework and appropriate protocols for infectious disease surveillance and for mounting an
outbreak response has been established together with an enhanced capacity to safely diagnose,
treat and mange patients safely (for patients and staff) within the framework of appropriate
protocols. A national public health laboratory network has been established with appropriate
protocols for bio-safety. The overall objective to strengthen capacity for infectious disease
prevention and control in all Program provinces and cities has been satisfactorily met.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The decision of MOF to absorb IDA repayment obligations of provinces reduced the costs on the
poorer provinces and, indirectly, of the population by reduced pressure on health fees to finance
the repayments to the national government. The abolition of fees for health services for patients
with SARS and other infectious diseases such as TB and AI, particularly for poor patients, has

reduced the costs to patients (with a positive impact on the poor) and probably encouraged
patients to come forward for treatment which has a very significant positive externality.

@) InstitutionalChangetstrengthening

The Program objective of supporting China to be prepared to combat SARS and similar infectious
disease threats has been met. With the support from the program, the National Development and
Reform Commission worked out the National Plan for Medical Assistance for Public Health
Emergency. Its implementation will have a profound impact on further strengthening clinical
management capacity for infectious diseases in the Country. The decision to establish HERO and
health bureaus went much fbrther than initially anticipated by the Program and is a major signal
of the importance GOC places on the Program long-run objectives. By establishing HERO as an
office there is recognition of the need for considerable independence of action across agencies
compared to administrative departments within MOH. The initiation of the establishment of a
National Laboratory Network with accreditation and bio-safety standards and monitoring
arrangements is also significant and well beyond the initial program objectives.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating:Low or Negligible.

There do not appear to be any foreseen risks in terms of political ownership or economic stability
which would negatively affect the development outcomes of the program. The emergence of A1
strongly reinforced the political commitment - both within China and globally - of the need to
sustain efforts and outcomes achieved to date. Strong ownership by GOC, MOH (particularly
CDC HERO and MAD) and of Program provinces of outcomes remains solid and a high priority.
The legislation, policies and protocols developed under the program provide a sound basis for
both sustainability of outcomes and their further development. Government ownership,
international interest and support for this international public good; GOC commitments to work
on its capacity to deal with epidemics in international forums; and GOC and provincial
government commitments to allocate sustaining budgets augur well for overall sustainability of
outcomes. Sound international technical assistance coupled with national experts have enabled
technically appropriate designs to be implemented which are within the capabilities of the
institutions being developed. This process, together with systematic training of staff has had a
major impact on overall institutional capacity development. Environmental issues associated with
laboratories and hospital waste management were systematically dealt with. A reasonably
successful health information and education program has increased knowledge about infectious
diseases and the importance of dealing with them within both the general public and in vulnerable
groups. Evidence of behavior change exists but significant challenges remain.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance


 5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performancein Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The program was prepared and appraised in seven weeks in response to a GOC urgent request for
assistance with the SARS epidemic which was sending shock waves through both China and

South East Asia (including severe travel restrictions). The program design and preparation were
supported by a team of Bank experts (often via video conference because of travel restrictions
and safety concerns) with a range of appropriate skills and a deep knowledge of the past and
existing portfolio in the health sector in China. Working in extremely close partnership with the
GOC preparation team, the Bank team, also with support of participating development partners,
provided strategic guidance (which incorporated international best practice) on developing a
sound program which responded to the crisis - both in the short- and medium-term. Consistent
with lessons learned from other emergency projects, careful attention was given to focusing on
the initial emergency response to the epidemic; creating space for technical assistance and
operational research to inform medium term policy, technical and legal/regulatory frameworks
and to initiate institutional development and strengthening. Further, other lessons from past
experience in China including: (a) the extensive use of local expert panels to consider and
contextualize the recommendations of international technical assistance; and (b)the use of annual
plans to enable flexibility in detailed design as the MOH generated new information from
program activities proved appropriate. This also formed an important basis for continued policy
dialogue between the Bank team and GOC during program implementation. The program had
clear outcome indicators and, despite its (necessary) complexity, activities were clearly specified
or actions to fully define other activities were clearly specified.

Safeguards and fiduciary requirements were adequately addressed during preparation despite its
extremely short gestation period. While the program was rated an environmental category "C" the
program design incorporated strong safeguard compliance during program implementation -
particularly with respect to hospital waste management, renovation of hospitals/wards and
enhancement of public health laboratory capacity.        While the work on the latter became more
extensive than originally planned, and should perhaps have been graded an environmental
category B (or A), very significant efforts have gone into developing bio-safety standards
according to ex ante agreements (based on WHO standards). It is important to note that as an
emergency program moving ahead on a timely basis was an imperative. The procurement and
financial management aspects of the program were: (a) well designed, and (b) FLO, the overall
implementing agency, had both extensive experience managing World Bank programs and of
programs being implemented in several provinces at once. There were some procurement delays
due to confusion between national and provincial responsibilities for procurement, but these were
relatively minor and probably could not have been fixed by further or more detailed design.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank supervision was focused, robust where needed, and diligent when it came to identifying and
resolving technical, management and fiduciary problems as they arose. Supervision missions
were staffed with well qualified and appropriate professionals able to participate and contribute to
the strategic discussions on policy and regulatory framework options and the way forward to
achieve the program outcomes. The annual plans, and their monitoring by government, provided
a good vehicle to focus supervision dialogue with government       -both during formal supervision
missions and for "continuous" dialogue with the supervision team via the resident mission. The
aides memoire addressed management and technical aspects of the program extremely well.
Consequently, the FLO, and to a considerable extent the provinces, relied heavily on mission
aides memoir to supplement internal government supervision of the program and to resolve
problems. Mission dialogue and aides memoir could have been more helpful to government if
there had been a more consistent focus on progress against agreed output indicators. Supervision
missions for the initial period of the program were planned to be six monthly. It is unfortunate
that the third full supervision scheduled for July 2004 was delayed until January 2005 due in large

part to Bank and GOC focus on the sudden emergence of the A1 epidemic       -  although A1 related
missions did discuss this program and resident mission based staff remained in constant contact
with the government. The program extension process could perhaps have been handled more
expeditiously, although final operational plans for the extension period, on which the extension
was based, took much longer to be finalized and submitted than planned.

(c) Justificationof Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's preparation activities, conducted under extreme time pressure, with concerns about
health and safety of government and Bank staff worlung in the SARS environment and with very
considerable uncertainty about how the epidemic might unfold were extremely solid.            The
implementation experience has demonstrated the program design, with its inherent flexibility
without loosing focus, stood the test of time. Supervision was solid and, as discussed, could have
been improved by increased focus on the monitoring of program outputs. On the other hand,
supervision arrangements significantly enhanced the transfer of global knowledge and resolved
management and technical issues which greatly enhance the program's outcomes.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

GOC demonstrated strong ownership of the Program and political will in its response to SARS.
It shared information on SARS internationally, sought to open up to global experience by
requesting international assistance with technical and policy aspects of the SARS epidemic
response (and public health emergencies more generally). Very strong signals from GOC
leadership on the critical strategic importance of the Program to China greatly facilitated the
ability of MOH, sub-national governments and individual professionals to initiate action. The
government established well-qualified teams to prepare the program and associated
implementation plans and to work with the Bank preparation team on an around the clock basis
exchanging views and seeking "best practice" from international experience. Well-qualified
teams were also established to implement the program at all levels of government. Supported by a
range of national expert panels, operational research, and technical assistance, all areas of
government have worked to achieve the objective of the program. Counterpart funding, until
development partners agreed to fund 100 percent of the program, was the cause of some delay      -

but the agreement of MOF to take over the repayment obligations of provinces for the IDA credit
was an important incentive for provinces to fully commit to the program.

@) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

At the national level the program was implemented by the MOH under the oversight of the
National Command Center of the State Council. The FLO was responsible for the day-to-day
management and coordination of program implementation with other departments of the MOH
with relevant technical expertise, the National Development and Reform Commission, and the
MOF providing necessary guidance. Existing provincial program management officesIFL0
offices were responsible for program planning and implementation at the provincial level,
overseen by provincial development and reform commissions, finance bureaus and health bureaus.

MOWFLO. The program was undertaken with dedication and enthusiasm and with full
appreciation of the urgency with which China had to respond to the SARS crisis and develop the
capacity to respond to highly infectious disease epidemics. The FLO was staffed with individuals
who had been involved in the sector and Bank projects for many years and thus embodied
important institutional and sectoral knowledge. They were also able and willing to draw on
technical expertise and advice from the technical assistance, national expert panels and colleagues
from other part of the MOH including CDC, HERO and MAD. By-and-large program
coordination of this fairly complex program was sound. Annual plans and their monitoring
reports although sometimes delayed, proved a very usual strategic management tool to monitor
program implementation progress. An improved focus on monitoring of program component and
activity outputs and evaluation of program achievements at an outcome level would have
improved this process. The key outcomes agreed for the program were basically achieved.

ProvinciaUCityEntities

While the provincial entities were not as closely involved in the Program design as central
authorities, because of the emergency nature and speed with the program was prepared and
appraised, two factors helped ensure implementation success despite some initial confusions: (a)
the establishment of high level inter-agency coordination mechanisms at the provincial level able
to give authoritative guidance and provide an avenue for cross-agency dialogue; and (b) the use
of detailed annual plans as the basis for funding and national monitoring of the programs being
implemented. This also enabled province-specific needs within the overall program to be met.
The Program management units in provinces often became the focal point for the day-to-day
oversight of the overall GOC program as well as the program specific activities thus enhancing
overall coordination. They oversaw the development of the annual plans. This was feasible
because these units were well staffed and capable. These units also worked well with technical
health agencies in each province and thus ensured inputs needed were in place and were able to
interact and coordinate with FLO. They have also worked to help ensure sustainability of
program achievements. On the other hand it is well recognized that there remains a vast agenda,
despite the Program achieving its goals and targets, to continue to enhance capacity and improve
quality.

 (c) Justificationof Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

For the reasons outlined above, the overall performance of the borrower is rated satisfactory.


6. LessonsLearned

GeneralApplicability:to All projects.

     Strong ownership and commitment from the highest levels of Government is critical to
     program success     - in this case it created clear and unambiguous signals in the system at all
     levels to: (a) initiate evidence-based action to the crisis; (b) create space for policy discussion
     and debate as a basis for policy development and action; (c) enhance staff capacities (at all
     levels) to respond to the emergency; (d) improve the level of transparency and openness and
     involve the general public in epidemic response; and (e) mobilize resources to support the
    national response.

  Designed appropriately, projects provided a very good platform for sound dialogue between
  international technical assistance, national expert panels and local institutions which also
  enhances local capacity and ownership of outcomes.
  A well-prepared Program Implementation Plan (PIP) improves understanding of program
  objectives, activities and ownership. It also smoothes program implementation and helps
  clarify implementation responsibilities when many agencies are involved.
  The joint donor financing arrangements resulted in improved coordination which assisted in
  ensuring good outcomes. Joint donor financing of one GOC program made it easier for
  government to make effective use of available funds.
  Program training can contribute to capacity building and institutionalization of management
  systems when conducted systematically over the life of the program.
  Ensuring active involvement of responsible government department and officials in
  operational studies succeeded in translating findings and recommendations from operational
  research into policies.

General Applicability:to Health Sector Projects.

  Establishing national expert panels is a sound way to: (a) harness nationals skills to deal with
  technical issues; and (b) enhance individuals and institutional capacity.
  Behavior change is a long-term process that requires targeted, effective and sustained health
  promotion messages delivered in multiple and innovative ways. Evaluation of what is and is
  not working is a critical element of health education initiatives.
  Exemptions, particularly of the poor, to health service charges for infectious disease
  prevention, diagnosis and treatment is important. While the user financing principle for
  private goods is appropriate, there is a strong case for public financing of activities with
  strong public good characteristics - including those with positive externalities.
  The assumption of the responsibility for repayment of the IDA credits from provinces by
  MOF on a "special case basis" was a critical signal of the seriousness with which the GOC
  took the SARS crisis. It provided a strong financial incentive for the provinces to implement
  the Program. The strong public good characteristics of investments in public health functions,
  and the historically low level of public investments in these hnctions in China, the case for
  grants to provinces, particularly the poorer provinces may have a wider applicability in the
  future.

General Applicability:to EmergencyProjects.

  Bank willingness to be responsive and innovative to meet client needs, particularly in an
  emergency program, is critical. In this case Bank management demonstrated this in the
  application of Operational Procedures, including those applying under Emergency
  Procedures: OP 8.50. Critical to program design, implementation arrangements and, its
  timeliness were the decisions to: (a) open two closed and amend six existing programs and
  extend them where necessary to finance the emergency response; and (b) absolve the program
  preparation phase of the need to meet environmental safeguards provisions ex ante and
  allowing them to be dealt with (appropriately) during implementation.
  The use of annual implementation plans as a basis for annual agreements for program
   financing can be a critical tool (for the client and the Bank) for: (a) assisting with program
  monitoring; (b) creating a basis for policy dialogue on next steps; and (c) (critical flexibility
  in program design and implementation while maintaining a focus on both short- and medium-
  term objectives.

    Emergency projects, as in other projects, need to focus on outcomes both at the project
    preparation and implementation stage (both the client and the Bank).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing AgenciesPartners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

There is agreement that the program has largely met its objectives. Three points raised by
government are commented upon. First, the delays in final agreement on the program extension in
significant part arose from slow and incomplete reporting of the program outputs and outcomes
and the considerable time it took to finalize proposals for the extension period. However, the
work achieved in this period was significant and the wait for an adequate plan for the extension
period paid off.

Second, it is unfortunate that the overspending on the non SARS component of one program
resulted in reduced allocations for the SARS program (approximately SDR 400,000). This
should have been prevented by the mother program unit and by the Bank disbursement system.
Ultimately it was a GOC decision on whether overspending would be charged to the credit under
the SARS component rather than to the other components. MOH was not responsible in any way
for the overspending. This only arose because of the special nature of the financing arrangements
for the program.

Third, there is a need to improve the management of technical assistance by government, which
made such a critical contribution to the program outcomes, particularly at lower levels of
government. WHO was a critical partner in the supply of technical assistance under the program.
More timely processing of consultants by WHO is desired to ensure that such desirable
partnership can be enhanced.




This evaluation concurs with CIDA and DFID that the Program was successful in meeting its
core objectives. It also concurs with the views of these agencies that separate stand-alone
programs did not make sense in the context of the emergency response.

Including WHO in the partnership was a basic condition for CIDA and DFID participation in the
Program because they believed the technical expertise they could bring to the Program was
critical. The Bank concurred and facilitated sole source procurement of WHO services under the
Program. The need for this type of partnership in the future means that innovative ways need to
be made to facilitate partnerships in the future.

There is also agreement that:
         An improved focus on monitoring and evaluation during supervision by both the Bank
         and government could have improved implementation.
         While health promotion efforts were significant, that a greater focus on measuring
         behavior change would have better shown how well it worked.
         More work will be needed to ensure that the laboratory network is fully developed and
         protocols are being subject to quality assurance reviews.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Partnership arrangement, rather than a parallel technical assistance program managed by WHO
(their preferred option) was the correct way to go in these circumstances. One donor program
supporting one GOC effort enabled the marshaling of resources, including technical assistance, in
a coordinated manner.

Moreover, it is agreed that: (a) flexibility in the Program was essential to outcomes and was
responsive to client needs; (b) the program created a good platform for dialogue between agencies
and with donors; (c) achievements with establishing the laboratory network was a successful
program element - beyond the original objectives of the program - despite the challenges
remaining; and (d) establishing the web-based infectious disease monitoring system was also an
achievementthe beyond original program scope.

WHO acknowledgedthe administrativeburden associated with managing the technical assistance
program with consequent delays in contracting (as did GOC). While the technical assistance
achievements were very significant every effort should be made by all parties to improve this
essential aspect of this critical partnership.

 Annex 1. Program Costs and Financing

(a) Program Cost by Comqonent~inUSD Million equivalent)
                                       - --                         --                            --

                                               Appraisal Estimate Estimate
                                                                   AetuavLatest      Percentage of
                                                (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                                     millions)
1.Program Planning,
Coordination and Policy
!Development
 2. Clinical Management of SARS
'Patients




Physical Contingencies




      Total Financing Required.....
         .........
                    ..........-..--.....--.-.




                                                                 Appraisal I,ActuaVLatesti
                                                 :  Type of                   Estimate Percentage oE
                Source of Funds
                                                                  (OSD          (IISD     Appraisal

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Recognizing the complexity of the overall program the Government adopted overarching
program indicators given the PDO of Strengthened Capacity for Infectious Disease Prevention
and Control in all program provinces and cities. These are summarize indicators, base line and
program achievements and are presented in Part F of Basic data sheet.

Table A documents the original indicators, base line and the program achievements by program
components formally agreed for monitoring the program. Table B presents the modified (revised)
and new indicators formally agreed at the time of program extension which capture the slightly
revised focus given the SARS virus had abated.




                                                                           L
1. Program             1.1 Eight provinces that have   No program              All program
                                                                              1
    Planning,          developed or revised protocols  provinces had           provinces (less
    Coordination       for emergency response to       protocols relating    I developed in
    and Policy         SARS outbreaks according to     to SARS or other        (Inner Mongolia)
    Development        the recommendations from        infectious diseases     and National
                       SARS response preparedness                              Government
                       assessments by September 30                             developed
                       2003.                                                   protocols based on

                                                                             I program
                                                                             I operational
                                                                             I research &

                                                                              1international best
                       1.2 see revised Table line 1.2                         1practice.
                       below

                       1.3 Program annual plans are
                       developed and shared with       No system in
                       World Bank by every             place.                  Annual Plans
                       November 30, and integrated                             developed and
                       in a timely manner with                                 monitored on basis
                       existingnational plan for                               of annual funding
                       SARS response.                                          agreements
                                                                               consistent with
                                                                               evolving national
                                                                               and provincial
                       1.4 Lessons learned and best                            plans.
                       practices in addressing SARS    No systematic
                       epidemic are analyzed for       processes in place.     National level: 9
                       wider public health                                     reports; provincial
                       applications, and are                                   8 focusing on
                       disseminatedby December 31                              lessons for
                       2005.                                                   treatment and
                                                                               control of SARS

                1.5 Key SARSrelated policies Limited policies on
                are reviewed and revised both   infectious diseases
                for their implicationsfor       in place.           76 policies
                SARS and other infectious                           developed or
                diseases by June 30 2004.                           reformulatedbased
                                                                    on operational
                                                                    research,review of
                                                                    best international
                                                                    practice and
                                                                    seminarsincluding
                                                                    implicationsfor
                                                                    other infectious
                                                                    diseases.

2. Clinical     2.1 Designated SARS             Virtually no        Within 3 months
Management of   hospitaldwards with a           hospitals,          of program start all
SARS Patients   capacity of providing quality   particularly at     program provinces
                SARS clinical management for provincial level,      designated SARS
                at least 200 probable and 200   had any wards/      hospitals with
                suspected SARS cases set up     capacity for        target capacity.
                in 8priority provinces within   appropriate         Upgraded capacity
                the 3 months after program      isolation of highly now completed.
                effectiveness                   infectious diseases
                                                such as SARS.

                2.2 No. of hospitals and fever No standards set     All designated
                clinics meetingMOH and          prior to program.   hospitals and clinic
                WHO standards for hospital                          capacity reported
                infection control.                                  to meet new MOH
                                                                    standardsrules on
                                                                    prevention and
                                                                    control of
                                                                    infectiousdiseases
                                                                    developed under
                                                                    the program (based
                                                                    on WHO
                                                                    standards).

                2.3 No. and % of health         No cases reported   No cases. SARS
                workers in any designated                           incidencebecame
                SARS hospital infected by                           zero; thus not
                SARS and any similar                                applicable.
                infectiousdiseases.

                2.4 No. and % of staff          No guidelines       Training
                recruited and trained according related to SARS or  guidelinesfor
                to national guidelineson        other highly        SARS, A1and
                SARS diagnosis, treatment,      infectiousdiseases. other infectious
                and transportationof SARS                           diseases
                patients.                                           developed. 58
                                                                    trainings covering

                                                  I                    )15,700people

                                                                        of total staff not
                                                                        reported.

3. Disease         3.1 No. and % staff recruited   No capacity          27 workshops
   Prevention and  and trained for SARS/                                involving 34,900
   Control, with a infectiousdiseases                                   staff, 35% female.
   focus on SARS   surveillanceand reporting.
   and other
   Infectious      3.2 Laboratoriesfor SARS        No equipped          Capacity
   Diseases        surveillanceat eight program    laboratoriesat       developed in each
                   provinceswill be set up and     provincial level.    program province.
                   accreditedby MOH and WHO                             Paper prepared on
                   by December 31 2005                                  national laboratory
                                                                        network and
                                                                        adopted.Also
                                                                        established
                                                                        quality/standards
                                                                        benchmarks for
                                                                        laboratorytypes
                                                                        based on
                                                                        international
                                                                        standards.Staff
                                                                        training program
                                                                        developed and
                                                                        implemented.

                   3.3 % of knowledge and          No behavior          Research in 2
                   behavior change among           change programs      provinces
                   targeted populationswith        for SARS or          indicatedsome
                   respect to SARSand other        infectious diseases. behavior change
                   infectiousdiseases.                                  in targeted
                                                                        vulnerable groups
                                                                        for hand-washing:
                                                                        before meals
                                                                        increased (40% to
                                                                        54%); and after
                                                                        using bathroom
                                                                        increased (43% to
                                                                        59%). Overall
                                                                        increase estimated
                   3.4 % of any new SARS cases No new SARS              at 25%.
                   and other infectiousdiseases    cases after
                   with unknown transmission       program              A1emerged but
                   route(s) reduced                effectiveness.       transmission route
                                                                        known.

1. Program       1.1 No. of provinces that have  No program           All program
  Planning,      developed or revised protocols provinces had         provinces (less
   Coordination  and regulations for             systematic laws,     developed in Inner
   and Policy    SARStmajor infectious           protocols or         Mongolia), and
   Development   diseasestpublic health          regulations relating National
                 emergencies response based on   to SARS or other     Government
                 lessons learnt and best         infectious diseases. developed 76 new
                 practices.                                           rules/protocols (68
                                                                      at provincial level)
                                                                      and an additional 4
                                                                      existing rules
                                                                      reformulated
                                                                      strongly
                                                                      influenced by
                                                                      program research
                                                                      and international
                 1.2 Program provinces that      No system existed    best practice.
                 have prepared critical stock    at either national or
                 and protocols for use of SARS   provincial level.    7 of 8 provinces
                 and other infectious diseases                        set up emergency
                 related supplies with which to                       reserve in the
                 mount a first wave response to                       provincial CDC.
                 SARS or a similar infectious                         Emergency
                 disease threat.                                      response offices
                                                                      and protocols for
                                                                      action developed.
                                                                      Hospitals have
                                                                      country level
                                                                      emergency
                                                                      supplies. Still
                                                                      grappling with
                                                                      management and
                                                                      replenishment of
                                                                      stocks.
2. Clinical      2.1 Designated SARS             Virtually no         Within 3 months
   Management of hospitals1wards with a          hospitals,           of program start
   SARSPatients  capacity of providing quality   particularly at      all program
                 SARS clinical management for    provincial level,    provinces
                 at least 200 probable and 200   had any wards1       designated SARS
                 suspected SARS cases set up in capacity for          hospitals (49) with
                 8 program provinces and cities  appropriate          target capacity.
                 within the 3 months after       isolation of highly  Upgraded capacity
                 program effectiveness.          infectiousdiseases   now completed.
                                                 such as SARS.

                 2.2 No. of policies/regulations Very limited

In hospital infection control    policies/regulations Policies and
:hat have been developed or      in place.           regulations (based
:evised in light of lessons                          on best practice)
learnt and study of best                             implemented in
practice and implementation.                         each province.

2.3 No and % of designated
hospitals and fever clinics meet                     All designated
the MOH and WHO standards                             hospitals and
for hospital infection control                        clinic capacity
for SARS and AT.                                      reported to meet
                                                      new MOH
                                                      standards for
                                                      SARS and AI.
                                                      Standards
                                                      developed under
                                                      the program
                                                      (based on WHO
                                                      standards).


                                                                       -

3. Disease         3.1 A national alert and        There was no         Established web-
   Prevention and  response network for public     national             based real time
   Control, with a health emergencies set up, built computerized        national disease
   focus on SARS   around an integrated early       disease reporting   reporting system
   and other       warning surveillanceand          system. Disease     covering 100%of
   Infectious                                       reporting took      provincial
   Diseases                                         over 12 days and    facilities, 95% of
                                                    rate of under-      country facilities
                                                    reporting was 8%    and 76% of
                                                    (national sample    township level
                                                    data).              facilities. Average
                                                                        disease reporting
                                                                        delays reduced to
                                                                        3.6 days and
                                                                        under-reporting
                                                                        reduced to about
                                                                        3%. It is estimated
                                                                        that about 50% of
                                                                        disease outbreak
                                                                        identifiedby the
                                                                        system.

                   3.2 No. and % CDC staff          No capacity for     34,936 staff
                   trained for SARS and other       SARS and limited    trained in CDCs
                   infectiousdiseases surveillance capacity for         and hospitals
                   and reporting (male and          infectious diseases representing a
                   female).                                             large share of
                                                                        relevant staff in
                                                                        program
                   3.3 Protocols for establishing   No systematic       provinces.
                   and evaluating a national        standards based
                   pathogenic microbiological       system in place.    Protocols for lab
                   laboratorynetwork developed.                         network
                                                                        (accordingto bio-
                                                                        safety levels)
                                                                        established
                                                                        according to
                                                                        internationalbest
                   3.4 No of provinces              No capacity at      practice.
                   implementedFETP and No. of       program initiation
                   trainees                                             All program
                                                                        provinces,& 3,441
                   3.5 Positive knowledge and       No behavior         trainees
                   behavior* changed among          change programs
                   targeted populations,especially for SARS or          Research in 2
                   the poor and vulnerable.         infectious diseases provinces
                                                                        indicated some
                                                                        behavior changes
                                                                        in targeted
                                                                        vulnerable groups

                                                                        I for hand-washing:
                                                                         before meals
                                                                         increased (40% to
                                                                          54%); and after
                                                                          using bathroom
                                                                          increased (43% to
                                                                          59). Overall
                                                                          improvement
                                                                          estimated at 25%.
'A
* Means understanding key- transmission routes of key infectious diseases such as SARS and
                     -
Avian Influenza, ways to prevent spreading, and improved hand hygiene, etc. and changing
behavior accordingly.

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic rate of return was not estimated for the program at the time of appraisal, nor was it
calculated after its closure.

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation SupportlSupervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility1
          Names                              Title                     Unit
                                                                                Specialty
                                                                        -
Lending
       n

L. R~chardMeyers            Task Manager                              EASHD
Yukon Huang                 Country Director                                           -
 - --             - - - -  -                                         -EACCF-
                                                                       - --  -
Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun        ~ o a~ie ~ a r t h e n t ~ l v l sManager LOAG3
                                                              l o n
Xiaoping LI                 Sr. Procurement Specialist                EAPCO
Lingzhi Xu                  Sr.Procurement Speclalist                 EASHD
Haiyang Wang                Finance Officer                           LOAG1
Shiyong Wang                Health Specialist                         EASHD
Dong YI                     Finance Management Speclalist             EAPCO




L. Richard Meyers           Task Manager                              EASHD
                            Health Specialist and Task
Shiyong Wang                                                          EASHD
                            Manager
Jeffrey Koplan              consultant
Karen Shaw                  Consultant
Teresa Ho                   Task Manager                              EASHD
Shlyong Wang                Health Sepcialist                         EASHD
Xiaoping LI                 Sr. Procurement Specialist                EAPCO
Haixia LI                   Financial Management Specialist           EAPCO
Jian Hou                    Team Ass~stant                            EACCF
                                                                            Communicable
Angus Nicoll                Consultant                                      Disease
                                                                            Surveillance
                                                                                     - - --
Andrew cottam-   -          Consultant                                      Blo Safety
Meredlth Bradbury           Consultant                                      Lab Specialist
Xiaowei Guo                 Senior Procurement Specialist             EAPCO
Haixia Li                   Financial Management Specialist           EAPCO

@),Staff Time and Cost
               .. .-  .

                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                             -----          --                              -
'Stageof Program Cycle                               USD Thousands (including
                                                    I
                                   Ofstaff
                                                     travel ?nd eonsultsntcosts).




                        Total:




                        Total::      66.14                  264.822.47

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
($any)
N/A




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(ifany)
N/A

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR andlor Comments on Draft ICR

The FLO commissioned a major evaluation report of the program (468pp). The following is a
summary of Sections 3 and 4 of this report entitled (summary) "Program Evaluation" and "Data
Annexes" (73pp). The following summarizes: (a) key long-term program achievements; (b) key
outcomes/achievements by program component; (c) program experiences and its role; (d) lessons
learned; (e) program extension issues and (f) program fund shortage.

Overall the program achieved its major objectives and contributed to the national program to
develop a national emergency response capacity. Almost 179 million people were covered by the
program (48% women, minorities 12% and the poor 14%) in five provinces (with 411 counties
and 58% classified as poverty counties) and the cities of Beijing, Tianjin and Guangdong.

Key Long-term Effects (Outcomes) of the Program Include:

        Helping establish a national public health emergency response system and infectious
        disease prevention and control system have been built and improved - operational at both
        the national and program province levels in accordance with the Regulation on Public
        Health Emergency Response promulgated by the State Council.
        Assisting program provinces/cities establish: (a) budgets to for public health emergencies
        including a special fund for material and technical reserves; and (b) public health
        emergency response institutions to prepare and regularly update materials for emergency
        prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
        Accelerated reform of the disease prevention and control system though establishment of
        a two-tiered disease prevention and control network covering: (a) medical institutions;
        and (b) health service stations at the village (community) level.
        Improved urban and rural health service network and treatment system -- specifically the
        medical service system now includes a system of emergency centres (stations) and blood
        stations at all levels of the system.
        Enhanced quality and skills of staff throughout the public health system through training
        of doctors, nurses, disease control and other health care professionals.
        Enhanced health education and promotion capacities. Specific activities were conducted
        in program provinces including among minorities, the poor and vulnerable.
        Developed operational research results and capacity for research which will provide
        continued input for the country to formulate health policy, laws and regulation, and to
        improve the rural health system and urban service system. Operational research activities
        were many and varied and were applied in many fields (e.g., "Rulesfor Hand Hygiene of
        Medical Staff" in medical institutions and "Technical Guideline on Prevention and
        Control of Hospital Infectionfor Surgery Department" were developed and subsequently
        adopted by MOH.

Component I : Program Planning and Coordination & Policy Development.

Overview: During program implementation the provinces developed and amended 60
comprehensive contingency plans and 76 rules, policies and regulations. All program provinces
have established a 2-tier supply system for normal times and reserves for (public health)
emergencies and a reserve fund, to enable prompt response in the outbreaks of SARS or similar
infectious diseases. Program offices at national and provincial level prepared annual work plans
on a timely basis, submitted the plan to the World Bank (for review and comment) and
subsequently integrated the approved activities into their routine health programs. Technical
assistance from WHO enabled program lessons and experiences in SARS prevention and control

to be systematically reflected and summarized. The program launched a series of measures to
enhance communication and cooperation with international organizations such as WHO on the
prevention and control of infectious diseases. These measures included appointing contact
persons in relevant MOH departments, regular meetings, short-term position rotating and joint
training workshops.      The program substantially improved information exchange and action
liaison among departments concerned (at all levels of government) by setting up a
multidisciplinary leadership group on public health emergencies which jointly issue policy
documents, conducted joint exercises, and organized joint training courses. On the basis of these
activities, the expert team prepared 9 investigation reports including a strategy document Choice
of China's Public Health.

Speczjic Points -- TheProgram:

     The MOH established an emergency response office (HERO) in March 2004, which
     organizes and coordinates response to public health emergencies across the country and with
     program support in the program provinces.
     The program supported transfer of knowledge through workshops, domestic and
     international study tours and trainings at national and provincial level helped ensure the
     technical appropriateness of the public health emergency response command system and
     emergency response management network.
     The emergency response system at national and local level was strengthened by input from
     World Bank experts during supervision mission and advice from international experts
     establish agency capability at all levels in handing public health emergencies and other
     emergency events.
     Program provinces also set up emergency response task forces, health emergency response
     expert database and training bases for the emergency response task forces. This enhanced the
     capacity of provinces to respond to outbreaks or suspected outbreaks of infectious diseases.
     One national study: "Study of Standardized Equipment on Public Health Emergency
     Response" supported by the program, assisted in preliminary policy recommendations on
     construction of emergency response infrastructure, a mechanism for equipment management
     and identification of new equipment options. These policy recommendations will shortly be
     finally considered by HERO.
     Program provinces developed management rules at all levels on the production, supply and
     reserve of materials for SARS prevention and control, and regulations on the utilization of
     SARS-focused funding and materials. An emergency reserve was established and a number
     of pharmaceutical enterprises were also accredited to promptly mobilize emergency drug
     supplies and production once an outbreak occurs.
      National level operational research projects were launched, including the Study of Public
     Health Response System and Operating Model and the Contents and Evaluation Indicators
     for Public Health Emergency Response System. As a consequence of national operational
     research concrete policy recommendations were delivered on: (a) enhancing comprehensive
     planning of public health system and strengthening government's role in the field of public
     health; (b) legal institutional framework for public health; (c) consolidating the construction
     of public health emergency response system and mechanism; (d) improving the efficiency of
     public health service delivery. These policies recommendations will be disseminated and
     applied in program areas.
     The State Council formulated and issued the National Overall Contingency Plan for Public
     Health Emergency in 20.5. In line with the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infectious
     Diseases, the Rules of Emergency Response to Public Health Emergency and the National
     Overall Contingency Planfor Public Health Emergency, the State Council and MOH mapped

   out the National Contingency Plan on Public Health Emergency. The NDRC took the lead in
   a program financed operational research program on "Medical Treatment System on Public
   Health Emergency". This resulted in the "ConstructionPlan for Medical Treatment System
   in Response to Public Health Emergency", which was promulgated for implementation by
   the General Office of the State Council.
   On the basis of national contingency plan, program provinces have all developed their own
   comprehensive contingency plans and earmarked plans for SARS, HPAI and rat plague.
   Funded by the program, experts in Shanxi completed the Schemefor Construction of Public
   Health Emergency Response Mechanism in Shanxi, based on which the province issues 7
   schemes/guideline/plans including the Contingency Plan of Shanxi Province on Public
   Health Emergency. During the program implementation, all program provinces worked out
   13 comprehensive contingency plans and 47 earmarked plans covering a number of areas
   such as public health emergency, major acute infectious diseases like SARS and HPAI, other
   infectious diseases and safety accidents. Valuable technical support was provided on the
   development of these plans by the program supported workshops, domestic and international
   study tours, trainings, as well as input offered by the World Bank and program financed
   WHO consultants.
   Through program financed training, international study tours and operational research,
   capacity was enhanced in the field of prevention and control of infectious disease as well as
   public health emergency response system. During its implementation, the program delivered
   233 training events for 47,863 persons, (60%) men and 40% women. Among program
   supported trainings, nearly half of the trainings were tailored for the poor areas, and 90% of
   trainings went through a review and evaluation process. Generally positive results were
   achieved.
   The program launched a series of measures (contacts in MOH departments, short-term
   rotating positions, meetings and workshops etc.) to enhance communication and cooperation
   with international organizations including the WHO on the prevention and control of
   infectious diseases. To enhance technical exchange and cooperation in relevant fields, WHO,
   with program finance, regularly send experts to CDC to work with domestic experts. MOH
   and WHO co-organized international workshop on SARS and HPAI, as well as international
   workshop on bio-safety of pathogenic microorganism laboratories. Domestic and
   international experts (including US CDC director and EU CDC experts) shared latest
   development, experiences and lessons in relevant fields in the workshops. The
   multidisciplinary leadership group on public health emergencies, financed by the program,
   was able to issue policy documents, conduct joint exercises, and organize joint training
   courses and substantially improve information exchange and action liaison among
   departments concerned.
   The program supported operational research on the "Study of Inter-department Cooperation
   Mechanism on the Prevention and Control of Animal Borne Infectious diseases". The study
   raised policy recommendations such as setting up coordination team on the prevention and
   control of animal borne diseases, developing inter-department cooperation policies,
   establishing regular meeting system, ensuring effective communication of information,
   conducting joint supervision, sharing resources and carrying out scientific and research
   cooperation.

Component 2: Clinical Management of Patients with SARS/otherInfectious Diseases.

Overview: All program provinces, within 3 months upon program validation, designated SARS
hospitals with capacity of 200 cases and hospitals/wards to house 200 suspect cases. In Hebei,
Henan, Shanxi, Guangxi and Inner Mongolia, infectious disease hospitals/wards in provincial

capital, selected regional hospitals/wards, as well as medical waste/wastewater/solid waste
treatment facilities were upgraded. Among all upgrading activities, 10 were for ventilation
facilities in infectious disease hospitals/wards with a total area of 10896 M2, 6 for medical
waste/wastewater/solid waste treatment facilities including 3 new facilities, and 1 in other areas.
All hospitals above secondary level in program provinces have set up fever outpatient department
during the SARS period. Upon basic containment of the epidemic, the provinces adjusted and put
further regulations on such department. In principle, each county (citytdistrict) had 1 fever
outpatient department. Site investigation by the evaluation team shows that, key departments of
provincial infectious disease hospitals such as disease infection department, infectious disease
ward, internal respiratory department and ICU, have all met the MOH requirement on "standard
prevention". The program mapped out 54 policies and rules related to internal infection control, 8
at national level, 23 in Henan, 10 in Tianjin and 6 in Beijing. In addition, outcomes of a program
supported operational research on internal infection control, namely the hand Hygiene Guidelines
for Medical Workers in Medical Institution and the Technical Guidelines on the Prevention and
Control of Hospital Infection in Surgery Department, have been adopted by the Ministry of
Health, and will be integrated into the technical guideline at national level and distributed to the
whole country as instructions.

Specific points:

     All program provinces, within 3 months upon program validation, designated SARS hospitals
     with capacity of 200 cases and to deal with 200 suspect cases.
     In Hebei, He'nan, Shanxi, Guangxi and Inner Mongolia, infectious disease hospitals/wards in
     provincial    capital,   selected     regional   hospitals/wards,    as   well    as     medical
     waste/wastewater/solid waste treatment facilities were upgraded. All program provinces gave
     priority to poor areas for hospital renovation and other civil works.
     The program helped establish and consolidate information exchange mechanisms between
     medical institutions and CDCs and to report information.
     The program assisted in mobilizing training, workshops, study tours and operational research
     programs covering technical training for medical professionals including clinical diagnosis
     and treatment, radiation diagnosis, lab diagnosis, nursing, patient transport, hospital infection
     control and pre-admission first-aid. Fifty eight training events (50% on SARS and A1) were
     conducted in this area for about 15,700staff.
     Developed and revised relevant policies/regulations in response to the fact hospital infection
     were a main contributor to SARS spread in its initial stage. Provincial health departments put
     into place relevant MOH policies/regulations, established or consolidated the functions of
     quality control for hospital infection management. Some 54 policies and rules related to
     internal infection control, 8 at national level, 23 in He'nan, 10 in Tianjin and 6 in Beijing
     were developed.
      Supported operational research on internal infection control, including the "Hand Hygiene
     Guidelinesfor Medical Workers in Medical Institution" and the "Technical Guidelines on the
     Prevention and Control of Hospital Infection in Surgery Department". These have been
     adopted by MOH and are being integrated into the technical guidelines at national level and
     distributed nationally as guidelines.
     Established and strengthened designated hospitals in provincial capitals and selected
     localities which comply with internal infection control criteria. Investigation and statistics
     revealed that, all hospitals have intensified their efforts in compliance and implemented
     relevant measures although evaluations show 50% of hospitals still don't comply with "hand
     hygiene" (washing) standards.

    Supported operational research on internal infection control for respiratory system diseases
    which included development of the "Hand Hygiene Guidelines for Medical Workers in
    Medical Institution" and the "Technical Guidelines on the Prevention and Control of
    Hospital Infection in Surgery Department ". These have been adopted by the MOH and will
    be integrated into the national technical guidelines after a period allowing for solicited
    feedback from the public via MOH Web-site and circulated nationally as the national
    guidelines.
     Procured necessary self-protection equipment and as a consequence of training are utilizing
    the equipment -a significant change in behavior of medical workers.

Component 3: Disease Prevention and Control Targeting SARS/Infectious Diseases.

Overview: In parallel with program implementation, the national disease prevention and control
system designed and established online surveillance and report system targeting infectious
diseases. On the basis of this system, the program developed 25 indicators of 3 categories to serve
as national indicator system for public health emergency, and proposed policy recommendations
on optimizing existing disease surveillance system, and developing real-time data collection,
transmission and storage system. The program conducted 124 trainings workshops on disease
surveillance and report at national and provincial level for 34936 persons; With several
operational research projects, the program drafted construction plan and evaluation methods for
pathogenic microorganism emergency response laboratory network related to public health
emergencies; and proposed measures and strategies for mass health education in case of public
health emergencies. Upon receiving trainings on health education and necessary equipment, all
provinces are now more capable in developing health education materials. SARS was under
effective control in program areas in 6 months upon program implementation, with no new case,
no death case and no case export. 25 trainings on field epidemiology were delivered for 3441
persons at national level and in provinces. With program support, national and provincial
program implementers procured 24 types of disease surveillance equipment (274 pieces), 65
categories of equipment related to laboratory tests (795 pieces) and 48 categories of equipment
related to health education (48 pieces). On the basis of existing infectious disease early warning
system in China, and international experiences in setting up such system, the program developed
5-year plan to facilitate construction of early warning and response system.

Specific Points --Theprogram.

        Assisted in the establishment of a disease surveillance and early warning and report
         system. China formally mobilized an information report management system for
        infectious diseases on the basis of case reports in January 2004. From 2005, the national
        CDC initiated proactive surveillance on 22 major infectious diseases (established with
        WHO technical support) in key areas in China. WHO, through program financing, and in
        cooperation with national experts developed a 5-year development plan for an early
        warning and response system which set out a plan for its implementation. The program
         financed training and key equipment in program provinces to support this.
         Supported pilot syndromic surveillance in Dongcheng District of Beijing and Wuhan City.
        A preliminary organizational framework for a systematic syndromic surveillance system
        was established and is being implemented in other cities.
         Assisted with the online direct report system through 27 training workshops and
         operational research. A national level operational research program, the "Data Analysis
         of Online Direct Report System on Infectious Diseases and its Utilization Study", was
        mobilized to analyze and improve how the system was working. The coverage of online

reporting has improved overtime - fiom over 2 weeks to 3.6 days in Shanxi and CDCs at
all levels take less than .5of a day to analyze reports.
Supported training in technologies for preventing and testing infectious diseases,
information system for disease prevention, SARS online reporting, and prevention and
control of AI.
Supported an MOH team visit to US to study its monitoring system for infectious
diseases and operation of its symptoms monitoring system. Importantly it established
professional and institutional contacts with US institutions.
Significantly upgraded laboratory equipment in CDCs in prefecture cities and counties
significantly improving testing capacity (speed of diagnosis has been increase 80% on
average).
Supported operational research on "Network Building for Pathogenic Microorganism
Laboratoriesfor Public Health Emergency". This proposed the establishment of a Public
Health Laboratory Network based on international experience. Supported the
development of quality control recommendations for laboratories through: "Researchon
Quality Control Indicators and Assessment Methoak for Pathogenic Microorganism
Laboratories in ChinaS CDC System". Based on US-CDC systems the report proposed
relevant quality control indicators and assessment methods, which are being implemented
and tested.
Improved bio-safety. Bio-safety training was established together with adoption of strict
operational regulations.
Program provinces are now malung efforts to: establish health monitoring system for
laboratory staff, set up the disease infection emergency response plan, enforce strict
operational regulations and technical standards and constantly improve safety and self-
protection awareness to minimize possible infection among laboratory staff and
environment.
 Supported the review and formulation of strategies in health education and health
promotion relating to "SARS" and other infectious diseases. Undertook health education
and health prevention activities designed to inform the public. All program areas have
carried out many kinds of mass health education, especially for rural areas and farmers in
poor remote areas.
Supported the production of the "Infectiousdiseases-How Much Do you Know About
It?" a book on general knowledge of communicable disease prevention and control
targeted at low income and low educational background population, and distributed it
freely to every cultural office in the administrative villages of nation-level poor counties
in program provinces.
 Supported a study of the barriers to and needs of communicable disease prevention and
control for poor and vulnerable people -- "Study of 'SARS' on Vulnerable Group" --
which analyzed treatment seelang behavior, financial burdens and quality of received
medical services by poor and vulnerable people (including women) during the outbreak
of SARS (and together with provincial based operational research) can now underpin
policies and its administration to poor and vulnerable people in future possible public
health emergency.
 Enhanced capacity by procurement of key equipment for health education to make and
print publicity materials. Field investigation showed high utilization rate of this
equipments.
"Changes of Health Behaviors of the Public after SARS" has been researched at national
level and a few program provinces (including Guangxi and Inner Mongolia). These show
that health education programs achieved some positive outcomes. The opening of

      hotlines and other forms of publicity and education have contributed to healthy behaviors
      of the public.
      Emergency response exercises have been undertaken in a number of provinces including
      response to the A1 epidemic, simulation of respiratory infectious diseases and SARS
      prevention, control and treatment technologies.
      Capacity improvement of field epidemic investigation has also been undertaken. CDCs at
      all levels to strengthened their capability of field epidemic investigation and public health
      emergency response, and strengthened knowledge and slull training of the human
      resources. Training for this has been supported by WHO financed under the program.

Program Experiences and its Role. TheProgram:


      Greatly assisted with consolidating resources, bringing better control on the SARS
      epidemic in program provinces by funding equipment needed, civil works, training
      programs, health education and promotion activities and operational researches. This
      assisted in controlling the disease
       Strengthened the communication and cooperation among national and provincial medical
      institutions, CDCs and health supervision agencies. It also helped them more effectively
      cope with any public health emergency by clearly defining their responsibilities and
      establishing an information-sharingplatform.
      Enhanced capacity for clinical diagnosis and treatment in program provinces through
      training a large number of professionals in different fields. This also enhanced program
      provinces capacity to better manage and better capacity for clinic diagnosis and treatment
      of infectious diseases.
      Exposed Chinese officials to international experts and enabled the introduction of many
      advanced technologies to program provinces, which broadened the views of the
      management personnel and professionals in the regions.
      Supported the initial development of a network of pathogenic microorganism laboratories.
      The program organized experts to discuss the importance and demands for a network of
      pathogenic microorganism labs in response to public health emergencies in China. The
      drafting of the "Plan for Establishing Pathogenic Microorganism Lab Network in
      Response to Public Health Emergencies" and the "Methodsfor Evaluating Pathogenic
      Microorganism Lab Network in Response to Public Health Emergencies" will facilitate
      further improvement of the laboratorynetwork.

   Sustainability of the Program: A number of factors suggest sustainability of outcomes:

      Policy Sustainability: GOC at all levels have: (a) recognized the importance of public
      health; (b) increased public health input; and (c) strengthened health cooperation between
      agencies. With policies, rules, regulations and a responsibility system put into place, the
      work of public health emergency response is guided by the rule of law.
      Human Resource Sustainability: Training activities have improved the capacity of the
      medical and disease control staff at all levels to deal with public health emergencies and
      produced a huge pool of professionals for the medical and disease control institutions in
      program provinces.

      Sustainability of Program Achievements: Driven by the program, governments at all
      levels made comprehensive and detailed emergency response plans and put in place a
      single command system, a system for disease prevention, control and treatment, an
      effective information-sharing system and a legal responsibility system. The program-

       funded planning, training and management network is operating effectively and the
       technologes used are getting more mature. Institutions and mechanisms set up during the
       program implementation can be included into the regular management system and
       merged into relevant agencies, which makes the program deliverables transplantable and
       sustainable.
       Sustainability of Public Health Budgets: Government has funded RMB 10.9 billion for
       national disease prevention and control programs, and RMB 11.4 billion for medical
       treatment programs for public health emergencies - the poorer western region of China.
       An additional RMB 4 billion has been dedicated for AIDS, tuberculosis and hepatic B
       and other prevalent infectious diseases.

   Lessons Learned
        Strong government ownership (at all levels) is critical for providing a framework withn
        which implementation can operate - particularly the government leadership teams and
        program offices established to guide implementation of the program and appropriate
        inter-departmental coordinating mechanisms where cross agency cooperation is required.
        Program flexibility is critical (even with appropriate program objectives and a clear
        program structure) to ensure enough flexibility is built in to enable adjustments to be
        made as circumstances change (e.g., the epidemic waned, other needs evolved as
        knowledge increased and new threats in form of AI emerged).
        Annual work plans were developed at national level and in each province in line with
        national priorities on infectious disease prevention and control. They were finalized after
        comment by the World Bank and other stakeholders. In general, these annual work plans
        were well implemented. Local areas often took action to meet local needs from disease
        outbreaks. These extra activities enhanced program effect, and demonstrated flexibility
        and target-oriented principles in the program.
        International experience provided by experts (e.g. from WHO under the program) and
        from the World Bank (in preparation and via supervision arrangements) are critical to
        knowledge development and dissemination of international practice.
        Pay attention to procurement capacity development and training at the provincial level,
        particularly for consulting services, because of limited experience at this level. Need to
        ensure consultants fully perform their obligations. Future procurement of consulting
        services shouldpay attention to this.

Program Extension and Adjustment

The FLO applied for program extension and to adjust categories of funds in early 2005 because:
(a) a need to focus more on long-term capacity building, in particular the establishment of an
emergency response system for public health events and a system for disease prevention and
control and (b) exchange rate gains malung an additional $1.lmillion available. The Bank wanted
a more detailed program to demonstrate that it's necessary to extend the program and adjust its
funding. The FLO held two worlung meetings for program provinces in April and July of 2005 to
prepare a revised proposal. An action plan was also formulated for the late stage of the program
together with detailed reports on program progress. Finally after one year of preparation the
program extension and fund adjustment was finalized. Program extension and hnd adjustment
helped us make better use of the program fund and realize program objectives.

Program Financing Shortage/Overspendingof Non-SARS Component.

While program legal documentsclearly spell out the approved loan amount of the SARS program
financed as components of six separate IDA program, the over expenditure by these projects on
non-SARS program related activities meant the SARS program became under-funded by SDR
400,000. Thus the funds available for the program were suddenly and unexpectedly reduced at a
late stage.This was unprecedentedin the projects of the World Bank. Our recommendationis that
if a project is threatened by such risks, the World Bank should point out such risks in legal
document. Otherwise,project legal document would lose part of its binding power.

Annex 8. Commentsof Cofinanciersand Other PartnersIStakeholders


The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDC) and the United Kingdom's Department
for International Development (DFLD) were joint financiers of the program program (via a World
Bank administered Trust Fund) and provided the following (summarized) comments to the ICR
preparation team at a meeting in Beijing to discuss the program and the Government's evaluation
report on the program. The ICR team did not have the opportunity to discuss the program with
Japanese authorities responsible for the Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) which was
administered by the Bank.

Comments on the program derived from a meeting with the World Health Organization (WHO)
Beijing are also summarized below. The comments of WHO are included here even though they
were, strictly spealung, a contractor under the Program. As discussed below however, the
contracting of WHO was done to ensure a strategic partnership with WHO was created,
particularly as regards moving forward on the key technical public health issues at the center of
developing an adequate SARS and infectious disease response capacity in China.

CIDA views the program as being successful in meeting its core objectives. At the outset, CIDA,
at a corporate level, conducted a "due diligence" review of the program documentation as it was
prepared take a "hand-off' approach to program design and implementation and to ask the Bank
to manage its funds via a Trust Fund. They concluded the Bank could develop the program faster
than they, as a bi-lateral agency, could. They recognized the Bank had: (i) a capacity to dialogue
across agencies and at the highest levels of Government; and (ii) facilitate political supportlwill
power to move forward on the program on an emergency footing. The joint financing design of
the program overcame many of the partnership/coordination issues and risks that could have
arisen withoutjoint financing of a single program.

In finalizing the strategic agreements underpinning their support of the program it was critical to
CIDA (and DFID) that WHO became a strategic partner in the emergency response effort and
was involved in the detailed design and implementation of the program. However, WHO as a
technical agency without significant discretionary funds able to be immediately deployed to the
emergency effort, needed funding. A mechanism was developed to enable funding of WHO
technical support under the program with full agreement of the Bank and of the Government.

DFID viewed the program as being successful in meeting core objectives. Institutionally DFID
wanted to demonstrate a clear and appropriate response to the SARS epidemic. It made no sense
to try and run a stand alone DFID program but recognized the need for good global technical
assistance to be blended with local expertise. The World Bank had capacity to develop a program
to respond to the crisis with the Government of China (GOC) and had in place mechanisms to
ensure financing and implementation capacity at the provincial level. In this context it made
sense to join with program financing with WHO being financed under the program.


Key specific points made by both CIDA and DFID included:

a    MOH, at both national and provincial levels, have worked very hard and diligently in short
     period of time to: (a) establish public health emergency response policy and regulatory
     framework, (b) build an infectious disease management capacity in the program provincial
     hospitals; and (c) develop a system to identify and respond infectious disease emergencies. In
     short, a response capacity was substantially increased.

   MOH exhibited a positive and genuine change in attitudes to openness, transparency and a
   willingness to seek both international and local expertise and technical support in responding
   the SARS crisis - at both the national and provincial level. This contrasted somewhat with
   the Ministry of Agriculture, a critical partner in generating a really effective national public
   health response capacity. It was noted that the Ministry of Finance on occasion mediated
   coordinated cross agency actions and the involvement of WHO.

   The monitoring and evaluation focus on outcomes, rather than just capacity development, by
   both MOH and the Bank could have been improved. It was noted that the MOH evaluaibn
   report, while very large and extensive in its coverage, also lacked a clear focus on outcomes.

   The program has been relatively successful in establishing a core architecture for a policy
   based emergency health response system in a short period of time (the core objective of the
   program) but it still important to recognize there are many qualitative aspects of the system
   and its capacity which need much further development.

   While acknowledging significant work on establishing a system for health promotion and
   behavior change it is not clear how successful behavior change has been.

   Work on establishing a laboratory network and associated protocols under the program was
   significant but there are concerns whether all appropriate protocols developed are in place
   and whether a fully sustainable laboratory staff capacity is in place.

   Concerns expressed about the financial capacity of the poorer provinces to sustain
   components of the program.

   While recognizing the Bank team supervising the program did a soundjob under considerable
   pressures a view was expressed that longer lead times on mission timing would have enabled
   increased participation by development partners and perhaps increased focus on monitoring
   and evaluation of the program. Aide memoires were important monitoring instruments but
   focused a little too much on management issues and not enough on outcomes.

WHO views the collaboration under the program positively and the outcomes achieved
significant and sound. While institutionally WHO believes the development partners could have
given the funds for the technical assistance program directly to it to administer there was explicit
recognition of both the desirability of donors support a single program and the role the World
Bank, and in particular Bank country management, in assisting with the development of a core
coordinated program and a capacity to implement the program - particularly at the provincial
level.

Key points made by WHO include:

   The program enabled WHO to deliver technical assistance on a timely basis and the support
   enabled critical changes in legislation, regulations and policy to be developed and
   implemented. WHO believes it was able to get very well qualified staff to work on the
   program.

The design of the technical assistance on a "program" basis enabled flexibility in
implementation, enabled the effort to respond to evolving demands by GOC for assistance in
the agreed areas, and as a consequenceoutcomes were improved. .

The strong commitment of GOC to developing an appropriate response to the SARS
epidemic, in part as a consequence of a need for China to be responding to international
concerns about the potential global impact of the emergency, created a very positive
environment within which to implementthe technical assistance program.

The approach adopted to implementation of the technical assistance program under the
program enabled a linlung of China and Chinese experts with the rest of the World - in
particular Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, Netherlands and the United States -
particularly the Center for Disease Control. Specifically, the program created a formal
mechanism for international technical assistance to talwwork with China at both the national
and provincial levels.

The positive efforts made under the program to improve Bio-safety in laboratories was
significant and should be seen as both a significant contribution to development in China but
also as a global good.

The rationale for the development of a Chinese Laboratory network arouse from work under
the program and is a significant outcome which will take years to institutionalize.

While acknowledging the major achievement of MOH of establishing the Web-based
infectious disease monitoring system expressed concern that the system remains fragile and
in need of sustainedqualitative improvement over the next 20 years..

That WHO was able to establish and sustain a good working relationship with Bank staff
under the program.

Finally, WHO acknowledged the significant administrative burden in implementing the
technical assistanceprogram. CIDA and DFID also noted this seemed an issue for WHO.

Annex 9. List of SupportingDocuments

      The following is a list of the key documents relating to the China SARS and Other
      Infectious Diseases Response Program.

      World Bank: "A SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program Supported By
      International Assistance: Program Description and Implementation Framework;" 2003.
      (served as program appraisal document), 2003.

      Amendment to Development Credit Agreements for :
          Environmental Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2522-CHA)
          Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2616-CHA)
          Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project (Cr. 2710-CHA)
          Southwest Poverty Reduction Project (Cr. 2744-CHA)
          National Rural Water Supply Project (Cr. N027-CHA)
          Basic Health Services Project (Cr. 3075-CHA)
          Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Cr. 3233-CHA)
          Enterprise Reform Project (Cr. 3271-CHA)

      Mutli-donor Trust Fund Grant Agreement between People's Republic of China and IDA

      JSDF Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TF 052892) for China Prevention and Control of
      SARS

      Letter Agreement on Program indicators

      Foreign Loan Office, Ministry of Health (China): "Program Implementation Plan on
      SARS and Other Infectious Diseases Response Program Co-Financed by World
      BankIDFIDl CIDNJSDF" (2003).

      Foreign Loan Office Coordinated "Annual Implementation Plans" and World Bank
      Mission Carnments on Such Plans (various years)

      The World Bank: "Supervision Aides Memoire, Back-to-office Reports 2003-2006.

      Foreign Loan Office, Ministry of Health (China): "Final Evaluation Report on China
      SARS and other Infectious Diseases Response Program Co-financed by WBDFIDI
      CIDNJSDF;" (2007) 468pp.

      Foreign Loan Office, Ministry of Health (China): "Program Indicators, Base line and
      Target Achievements Matrix;" (2007).

      WHO Technical Reports
          A set of "Technical Reports Analyzing the SARS experience in China."
          "Strengthening Early Detection of Infectious Disease Outbreaks;"
          "Strengthening Public Health Response to to Infectious Disease Outbreaks;"
          "Strengthening Health Care Facility Response o Infectious Diseases;"
          "Strengthening Bio-saftey in Laboratories;"
          "Prevention and Control of Influenza A (HSNI) in humans;"

Note: A wide range of reports fiom technical assistance and from Operational Research are
documented~summarizedin (10) above and provide significant information on different program
activities and informed program implementation and this ICR.






