Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: T-7338-TU
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR AN
EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$252.53 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
October 27, 1999



Turkey - Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan
Currency Equivalents
(Exchange Rate Effective October 4, 1999)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
TL I = US$ 0.0000022
US$ 1 = TL 459,516
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Wei2hts and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BAG-KUR   -  Bagimsiz Calisanlar Kurumu
CAS         -  Country Assistance Strategy
CBT         -  Central Bank of Turkey
EERL        -  Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan
EIB         -  European Investment Bank
ES          -  Eniekli Sandigi
EU          -  European Union
GDF         -  Support and Development Fund
GDP         -  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD        -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         -  International Development Association
IFC         -  International Finance Corporation
IMF         -  International Monetary Fund
MEER        -  Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
OECF        -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PMR         -  Project Management Reports
SME         -  Small and Medium-scale Enterprises
SDR         -  Special Drawing Rights
SIS         -  State Institute of Statistics
SSF         -  Social Solidarity Fund
SSK         -  Sosyal Sigortalar Kurumu
UNDP        -  United Nations Development Program
UT          -  Undersecretariat of Treasury
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Sector Leader: Ataman Aksoy
Team Leader: James Parks



TECHNICAL ANNEX FOR AN
EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Table of Contents
A. THE MARMARA EARTHQUAKE .........................................1
COUNTRY BACKGROUND ................,,.,.1
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF THE EARTHQUAKE              .I
THE GOVERNMENT'S RspoNsE                          .4
B. TURKEY'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM .11
C. THE BANK'S RESPONSE AND STRATEGY .12
THE BANK'S OvERALL REsPONSE .12
PROJECTOBJECTIVES ............. 13
D. PROJECT DESCREPTION .14
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .14
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .14
IMPLEMENTATioN ARRANGEMENTS .14
PROCUREMENT ......................,.,,,,,....       ,. 15
DiSSEMENT...    17
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING .17
SUPERVISION ,..,...,                                                        19
DONOR COORDINATION .19
F. ACTION PLAN .20
EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS .20
ATTACHMENT 1 .21
ATTACHMENT 2 ............                                                     23
ATTACHMENT 3 .24
ATTACHMENT 4 .30
ATTACHMENT 5 .31
ATTACHMENT 6 ............                                                      34






A. THE MARMARA EARTHQUAKE
Country Background.
1.   On August 17, 1999 a severe earthquake, rated by the U.S. Geological Survey as
7.4 on the Richter scale, produced extraordinary damage to the northwestern area of
Turkey bordering the Marmara Sea. The epicenter of the earthquake was near Golcuk in
the country's industrial heartland. The quake has been followed by more than 1,000
aftershocks, some as high as 5.5-6.0 on the Richter scale. The earthquake hit just as
Turkey's economy was recovering from a sharp downturn in the wake of the Russia
crisis. From July 1998 to June 1999, GNP contracted by 1.6 percent relative to the same
period a year earlier. Starting in the second quarter of this year, however, there was clear
evidence that the economy was emerging from the slump. Aside from endangering this
nascent recovery, the earthquake (and additional fiscal burden that it will impose) came
as the Government was implementing essential economic reforms including development
of an ambitious macroeconomic stabilization program requiring strong fiscal adjustment.
Economic and Social Impact of the Earthquake.
2.   Bank staff have prepared a preliminary estimate of the earthquake's impact on the
Turkish economy in a reported entitled: "Marmara Earthquake Assessment" dated
September 14. The key findings, updated on the basis of more recent information which
indicates more extensive damage to the housing stock than initially estimated, are
presented in Table 1 and summarized below. The earthquake will have serious short-
term economic consequences, but these can be managed provided that the Government
continues to implement its economic reform program and sufficient external support is
forthcoming to help finance the emergency recovery and reconstruction effort. The area
most severely hit by the earthquake accounts for about seven percent of GDP. Extensive
damage to electricity power lines and a key refinery has entailed some disruption to
economic activity, albeit temporary, across a large swath of an economically important
region.  Small- and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs) and micro-enterprises have
suffered greatly. However, early indications are that the damage to larger industrial
enterprises has been limited and it is likely that part of the output loss in the affected
region can be made up by factories located elsewhere in Turkey.
3.     Bank staff estimate that economic growth in 1999 will be 0.6.percent to 1.0
percent lower as a result of the earthquake. The economy is now projected to contract by
some 1.6 percent for the year. The earthquake is expected to have a negative impact on
private absorption in 1999 on the order of 1.5 percent of GNP. This would be made up in
part by an increase in public absorption of about 1.0 percent of GNP due to increased
public spending in response to the quake, funded in part by an inflow of foreign savings
of some 0.5 percent of GNP. Provided that it can be financed, reconstruction activity
related to the earthquake is expected to boost output by about one percent in 2000
resulting in projected growth of 5-6 percent. End-year CPI inflation is now projected to
be 64 percent (57 percent for WPI), exceeding the 50-55 percent target set under the SMP
in July. However, this is only partly attributable to the earthquake. Increased demand
pressures arising from reconstruction could have an impact on inflation in 2000,



2
particularly if external financing falls short. Increased demand pressures arising from
reconstruction could have an impact on inflation in 2000, particularly if external
financing falls short.
Table 1: Impact of the Marmara Earthquake
1999        Share         2000        Share       Total      Total
Economic Indicators 11  SUS bn       of GNP        SUS bn       of GNP     SUS bn    GNP (%'SL_
Direct Costs
Wealth Loss              4 to 7    2.0% to 3.5%                             4 to 7   2.0% to 315%
Indirect Costs
Impact on Output       -2.0 to -1.2  -1.0% to -0.6%  1.4 to 2.4  0.6% to 1.1%
Emeigency assistance      0.4         0.2%           0.2         0.1%
Secondary Effects
Current account balance   -1.0        -0.5%          -2.0       -1.0%        -3.0      -1.4%
Fiscal impact           2 to 2.3    1.0% to 1.2%   1.8 to 2.3  0.8% to 1.0%   3.8 to 4.6  1.8% to 2.2%
Social Indicators
AvPMer       Rangalf
Crude death rate     (per 1000)      11.9       2.5 to 21.2
Injury rate          (per 1000)      29.6       8.3 to 50.8
Displaced persons                             300,00-600,000
Job losses          % of labor force    30.9    20.4 to 48.1
11 Updated estimates based on the most recent data including final damage estimates for housing prepared by the Minisi ry
of Public Works and Reconstruction.
21 Range across affected provinces.
Source: World Bank staff estimates.
4.    The total fiscal burden arising from the earthquake is estimated to be in the range of
US$ 3.8-4.6 billion (1.8-2.2 percent of GNP), including remedial actions to better prepare
for large-scale natural disasters in the future. The largest direct cost to the bud} et,
estimated to be in the range of US$ 740 million to US$ 1.2 billion, will be throuigh
reconstruction and repair of damage to the housing stock of the region. Costs from
infrastructure replacement and rehabilitation are estimated to add a further US$ 1150
million to the budget. Total damage (wealth loss) from both items significantly excef d,
this amount, but the burden of reconstruction is expected to be shared with the privaIte
sector. Revenue losses and credit programs represent one third of total estimated fis,al
costs of the earthquake, totaling US$ 1.3 billion. These arise from four principal sourc -s:
(i) reduced tax revenues from the region due to the negative output shock, (ii) losses fro:mn
a tax payment deferrall for the region announced by the Government, (iii) credit subsid e;
for loan refinancing and new loans to enterprises which sustained damage in the regioin,
and (iv) postponed non-tax revenues from public enterprise privatization. Additionial
costs are expected from emergency assistance to the population and associa:ed
compensation for loss of life and disability totaling an estimated US$ 540 million. This
includes costs for temporary shelter for the people left homeless by the quake.  The:se
figures assume that large-scale relocation of the damaged towns will not be required.
5.    The current account deficit is expected to widen by some US$ 900 million in 19 )SI
under the immediate impact of the quake and by some US$ 2 billion (one percent olf
GNP) in 2000 as reconstruction intensifies. The decline in production in the affeci:ecd
region and disruption to the Izmit port is expected to lower exports by around US$ 500



3
million relative to the baseline scenario in 1999 and a more modest US$ 250 in 2000. An
expected drop in tourism revenues could magnify this loss by around US$ 200 million in
1999.1 Imports, on the other hand, are projected to increase quite sharply in 2000,
reflecting the positive stimulus to domestic demand from reconstruction activity.
Cumulatively, these developments are projected to widen the current account deficit by
0.4 percent of GNP in 1999 and 0.8 to 1 percent of GNP in 2000. This would imply a
current account deficit in the range of 2.6 percent of GNP next year assuming that the
required additional external financing will be available. Otherwise, further policy actions
will be needed to contain the current account deficit which would slow the reconstruction
effort and possibly short-circuit the projected recovery of the economy. Provided that the
Government's economic reform program stays on track, the widening of the current
account deficit is expected to be temporary and concerns about sustainability should not
arise. With regard to the capital account, most components are expected to remain
broadly unchanged with the exception of privatization revenues which are projected to be
US$ 150 million lower relative to the baseline.
6.   The additional external financing required in 1999-2000 to maintain reserve
accumulation as projected under the baseline is estimated at over US$ 3, billion. At some
US$ 23 billion, the CBT's gross reserves are adequate to deal with most types of current
account shocks, but less adequate in the event of a major capital account shock. It is
expected that the additional external financing will come from official creditors and that
the Turkish Lira counterpart of these funds will be used by the Government for its
earthquake recovery program.
7.   The Social Dimension.   Although all of the earthquake victims are facing
traumatic losses, including the loss of loved ones, injuries and disabilities, and the loss of
homes and businesses, certain groups are more vulnerable than others. Logically, those
who were poor and vulnerable before the earthquake will be the least likely to have
financial assets after the earthquake. The poor in Turkey, who rely on labor as their
primary asset, will be especially vulnerable to job losses in the self-employed, micro-
enterprise and SME sectors. Those who are not enrolled in one of the three Government
social insurance programs are particularly vulnerable to lost breadwinners and disability.2
During visits to tent cities in Adapazari, victims identified uncertainty about their future
as their heaviest psychological burden. This uncertainty about the future is well-merited,
since it is unclear at this time how many jobs will be permanently lost owing to the
earthquake. The labor market in the Marmara earthquake is more formalized than in
many areas of Turkey, and more employees are likely to be covered by social insurance
than is average for Turkey. However, there were vibrant self-employed, small and
micro-enterprise sectors in Marmara where social insurance coverage was presumably
I The Bank team has not attempted to estimate the impact of the earthquake on worker's remittances which
may in fact increase in response to the disaster.
2 The World Bank report "Turkey: Economic Reforns, Living Standards, and Social Welfare Study"
under preparation will provide a detailed description of Turkeyts social assistance programs and an
overview of social insurance.



4
limited. A certain portion of these jobs may be lost irretrievably, particularly in Yalova
which is unlikely to regain its appeal for local tourism.3
8.   Before the earthquake, the Marmara region was one of the better-off areas in
Turkey. Now, several hundred thousand persons have been displaced and many have lost
their job or business. While a substantial share of these people have already emigrated to
other parts of Turkey, a survey by the State Institute of Statistics found over 181,000
homeless people remaining in the region. Certainly, there will be a temporary increase in
poverty in the affected region, but how long this will endure depends on the number of
workplaces which are permanently lost. To some extent, the increase in poverty in
Marmara will be offset by the increased economic activity associated with the
reconstruction efforts, particularly in the year 2000. Information on deaths and injuries
has been disseminated by the Government's Crisis Center through the press and worldl-
wide web. The mosit recent internet information available is as of October 18, 19959.4
Deaths numbered 17,127 and injuries were 43,953. An estimate that 30 percent of the
injured will suffer disability would imply about 13,000 disabled individuals. No
information was available on the age and gender distribution of deaths and injuries, so to
estimate lost breadwinners, the age structure of the Turkish population was superimposed
on the number of deaths. Assuming 60 percent of the adult deaths were breadwinnrers,
this gives a total of some 4,900 estimated breadwinner losses.
The Government's Response
9.   The Initial Macroeconomic Policy Response. While the performance of the
national emergency management system in the days immediately following the
earthquake has been criticized, the Government's initial macroeconomic policy response
was appropriate and' effective. Central Bank intervention in the days following the
earthquake helped calm markets and prevent a financial panic. The Governn ent
submitted to Parliament in the days after the disaster a supplemental tax package to h elp
meet the fiscal burden of the quake which signaled its intent to maintain fiscal discipl ne.
The subsequent adoption and enactment of major pension reform legislation hel] ed
confirm Turkey's commitment to stabilization and reform. The Government has mc ved
quickly with its international partners to mobilize substantial external financing for
emergency relief and reconstruction. The Government is also working to organize the
reconstruction effort including defining the institutional arrangements and organizational
structures to support implementation of the program. Going forward, it will be cril ic;l
for the authorities to sustain the momentum for stabilization and structural reform.. 1'his
will provide confidence to financial markets that the increased spending needecl to
support recovery and reconstruction efforts will be temporary and that the budget de[icit
will return to a sustainable path.
3 Estimated job losses are given in Table 1. Available data indicate that firms with less than 10 worker;
accounted for 95 percent of manufacturing establishments and 35 percent of the workforce in Kocaeli
province which highlights the importance of small and micro-enterprises in the region.
4 Website of the Turkish government: http://www.deprem.gov.tr/kocaeUWinfo-izmit-l.httn



5
10.   Relief Efforts. After some initial hesitation, relief efforts are now in full swing.
The Government has established a crisis center in the Prime Ministry which is
coordinating relief efforts. The Government is activating public and private sector
capacities to respond to pressing needs for food, shelter and health care including
psychosocial counseling for trauma victims. Major efforts are underway to clear the
rubble. Large tent cities have been set up and emergency social services are being
provided. The General Directorate for Children has staff in the tent cities who are
working on the immediate needs of approximately 1,000 highly vulnerable children
(especially orphans). Many governments, local and international agencies, and NGOs
moved quickly to support relief efforts immediately after the quake and humanitarian
assistance to the affected population has also been forthcoming.
11. The Government's Earthquake Recovery Program. The focus of the
Government's efforts is now moving from relief to recovery as the components of its
earthquake      recovery               Table 2: Earthquake Recovery Program
program are put in place.
At this stage, the top                                               Total   Total      %
priority  is to  mobilize                                             Cost   Cost       of
social        protection   Name of Proaram                           TL trl   $ mil   GNP
mechanisms   to   help  Social Assistance                               177     344   0.18
displaced  persons  and    Accomodation assistance                      108      198   0.10
other vulnerable groups    Repair assistance                             51     108   0.06
recover from the impact    One-time lump sum assistance                  18       38   0.02
Social Insurance Benefits 1/                  13      24   0.01
of the disaster and return OteSoilPgrm
toproductiveli1Other Social Programs          I5      29   0.02
toonas pociv lie.  sha   Enterprse Support                              118    260   0.13
soon as possible.  The    Tax deferral                                  105    233   0.12
recovery  program   also    Direct micro-enterprise assistance           11      23   0.01
includes       additional    Credit programs 2/                           2        4   0.00
social programs, notably   Reconstruction and Disaster Mitigatfon      1,030   1,972   0.88
longer-term    care   for    Housing                                    576   1,103   0.46
trauma victims and job    Land management and code enforcement            19      36   0.02
training;5   support  to    Infrastructure                              235    450   0.22
affected enterprises; and    Disaster insurance                         143    273   0.15
a          medium-term       Emergency response system                   57     110   0.05
reconstruction       and  Total                                        1.353   2.629   1.22
disaster      mitigation  Source: Treasury and staff estimates.
program. The elements of 1/ Covers payments through end 2000. 2/ Includes only actual disbursements from GDF to
date for the credit program through the state banks.
the recovery program are
summarized in Table 2. To supplement external support for the program, the Government
intends to implement a series of revenue measures to help finance earthquake-related
costs.
12.  Accommodation.  The most pressing social protection need is to assist the
displaced population in moving out of the tent cities and into more adequate
SThe trauna programs are described in the documentation for the MEER project and the reallocation under
the Basic Education project (Loan No. 4355-TU). The job training programs are described in the
documentation for the reallocation under the Employment and Training project (Loan No. 3541-TU).



6
accommodation as winter approaches. The authorities are following a sequenced
approach to this issue with a view to relying on a mix of options that takes into account
the preferences of the affected population, which are clearly in favor of moving out ofthe
tent cities to a house or apartment as soon as possible. There are five major sources of
information on eari,;hquake victims' preferences: mission site visits, a rapid sccial
assessment done by a team from Koc University, a survey by the State Instituti of
Statistics, an enterprise survey which included a household information block and another
rapid survey done by a Turkish marketing firm. The Bank team made three site visi:s to
the earthquake zone. In these site visits, earthquake victims identified uncertainty all:out
their future, where they will live and work, as their greatest problem. Conditions in the
tent cities are stark--the sanitation is primitive and many people have nothing in their
tents but a few blankets and articles of donated clothing. A rapid social assessment,
commissioned during preparation of the MEER project, confirmed these initial
impressions from site visits. In this rapid social assessment, about 70 percent of
respondents said that they planned to stay in the earthquake zone. A third source of
information is a survey by SIS of the displaced population remaining in the region to
determine their needs and preferences. The survey, covering over 43,000 families,
indicates a strong preference for rental allowances (58 percent of respondents), a lesser
demand for prefabricated housing (41 percent) and a limited preference for public
buildings and recreational facilities (0.3 percent). A survey of micro- and small-to-
medium enterprises was conducted by Turkish consultants with support from the Bark
which included a block of questions on household information. In this survey, 90 percent
of the people polled reported that they wanted to continue to live in the affected region.
A separate survey was done by the Turkish marketing firm IBS where 76 percent of
respondents indicated that they wanted to stay in the earthquake region.
13. In response to the preferences of earthquake victims to leave the tent cities and
move to a house or apartment as soon as possible, the Government has announced an
accommodation allowance program for displaced households who suffered heavy or
medium damage to their homes of TL 100 million (approximately US$ 200) per month
for up to one year. It is estimated that this program, to be managed through the Soeial
Solidarity Fund (SSF), will cost TL 108 trillion (about US$ 200 million) through the year
2000. Displaced families will be able to choose to receive this cash assistance or accept
free accommodation in public facilities or pre-fabricated housing as this becormes
available. The Government has also announced a repair assistance program to help
families who suffered light damage to their homes. Under this program, eligible families
will receive a one-tirne grant of TL 600 million (about US$ 1,250) to help carry lu)t
repairs. This progranm, which will also be administered by the Social Solidarity Fund is
estimated to cost TL 51 trillion (about US$ 108 million). Additionally, the Ministry of
Public Works has contracted for 26,000 pre-fabricated units. However, the number of
units contracted exceeds the apparent demand and these contracts are subject to a low
price cap which raises concerns about quality and delivery.
14.  Implementatioin Arrangements.  The processing centers of the SSF for ihe
accommodation and repair allowances in Izmit, Adapazari, and Golcuk were visited by
the mission and found to be operating with an impressive degree of organization. l:he
central SSF had sent computers- to each of the processing centers (located in public
buildings such as auditoriums and gymnasiums) and the local SSF had recruited a staff



7
primarily of volunteers as well as some temporary employees. Client waiting time was
short and processing of clients was efficient. Information from the local SSF affiliates is
entered into a computer system and checked for consistency and duplications, then sent to
the central SSF headquarters. The SSF is in discussions with Ziraat Bank to determine
whether an additional check for duplication at the payment level can be conducted.
15. Death and Disability Benefits. The Government is preparing a complementary
package of social assistance benefits for the longer-term vulnerable among the
earthquake victims, in particular families that have suffered breadwinner deaths or
disabilities. As a first step, the pension legislation was amended to reduce the period of
required contributions for earthquake victims in terms of their survivor benefits and
disability pensions under the three social insurance programs.6 However, there will be
survivors and disabled who still do not qualify for social insurance benefits. The
Government has announced a program to offer one-time lump-sum payments for each
death and permanent disability regardless of social insurance coverage as was done
following the 1992 Erzincan earthquake. The Government is proposing that each death
be compensated by a payment of TL 750 million (US$ 1,600) and disability of the first
degree (most disabled) be paid at TL 500 million, while disability of the second degree be
compensated at TL 300 million. This lump-sum benefit for death and disability will be
administered by the Social Solidarity Fund. Bank staff estimate that this program will
cost approximately US$ 38 million. A one-time payment may not be enough, especially
for households which have lost not only their home, but their self-owned business or their
workplace and are unable to reintegrate into the labor market. Supplementary social
assistance benefits could be considered for those victims and the need for supplementary
social assistance will be assessed during the mid-term review (see below).
16. Social Assistance Payment Levels. The most important numeraires for assessing
the level of social assistance payments are Turkey's per capita GDP (US$ 3,150) and
average wage for September 1999 (US$ 270 per month). Turkey is a middle-income
country and social assistance payments should reflect the general level of income and
prices facing the affected population.   For the accommodation allowance, the
Government considered the rental market before the earthquake, and forecast the
projected decline in supply (due to destruction of housing stock) and increased demand,
settling on a projected rental cost of around TL 100 million per month. This forecasted
amount may not be sufficient to offset rental price increases actually incurred as the
rental market adjusts to the lowered supply and heightened demand. This issue will be
revisited during the mid-term review with an eye to assessing the adequacy of the
benefits. For the repair allowance, the level of TL 600 million (US$ 1,200) is well below
the estimated unit cost for the repair of light damage given in the Earthquake Assessment
of US$ 3,000. The established level takes into account that per capita incomes in the
earthquake zone are higher than average in Turkey and that most households having
suffered light damage will be able to contribute to the cost of repairs. On the lump-sum
death allowance of TL 750 million, this amount represents a compromise between the
projected loss of earnings over the lifetime of the victims as well as the government's
6 Preliminay data suggest that the total fiseal cost for social security institutions (SSK, ES and Bag-Kur)
would be TL 13 trillion (about US$ 24 million).



8
ability to afford compensation. The death allowance is US$ 1,500 or less than six months
of the average wage, so it covers only a small fraction of the lost income resulting from
death. The death allowance is less than one-half of average annual per capita income. In
particular, the amotunt may not be high enough for families who have lost their
breadwinner and potentially 10-30 years of earning capacity. The disability allowance
proposed by the Government is lower than the death allowance (US$ 600-1,000) and will
likely not cover anything more than the immediate costs of the disability (prothesis,
medical care, etc.). :[t should.be noted for both the death and disability allowances, the
Government has followed past precedent in extending these benefits to all victims, and
the amounts are approximately equal in real terms to those given after the 1992 Erzincan
earthquake. The appropriateness of the death and disability allowances will also be
monitored in the mid-term review.
17. Emergency Child Protective Services. SHKEK is the Government agency
responsible for 18,000 children at risk in Turkey. It runs a system of orphanages and
boarding schools, as well as homes for the elderly and training centers. SHCEK staff
were quickly mobilized to help following the earthquake, and there are currently about
100 staff volunteers in the 22 largest tent cities in the earthquake zone where they are
helping to establish kindergarterns and play centers for children, as well as food for
vulnerable children.7  SHCEK estimated that approximately 1,000 children will be
orphaned or at high risk due to the earthquake. The Government intends to provide
special social benefits to these highly vulnerable children.
18. Social Solidarity Fund. The Social Assistance and Solidarity Encouragerierit
Fund (SSF) was established in 1986 as an urnbrella organization and financing entity for
934 regional affiliate foundations. The SSF is an extrabudgetary fund financed by
earmarked taxes and administered by a State Minister. The regional affiliate foundatimns
provide a variety of social assistance programs (usually in kind) to the needy. The neAdy
are determined at the discretion of the regional affiliates. The SSF together with its loca,l
affiliates is the largest program of social assistance in Turkey in terms of number of
beneficiaries (4.2 million from 1 July through 26 March 1999). The SSF finances :he
efforts of local affiliates in several areas: assistance to the needy for periodic needs
health, small-scale employment generating projects, feeding centers, education
(scholarships), food & clothing, heating, and natural disaster assistance. The small scalf
employment generating projects are in small businesses and small agri-business,
including greenhouses, poultry, carpet and tapestry-making, confectionary, snmall
handicrafts, milk, fis,hing, bee-keeping, fruit, livestock breeding, vineyards, culturingi
mushrooms, crops, and for disabled persons. The SSF is planning to expand its
employment generating activities in the earthquake region.
19. Support to Enterprises. The Government has announced three programs lbir
supporting enterprises damaged by the earthquake: a tax deferral scheme, a subsidized
credit program channeled through the three main state banks: Halk Bank, Ziraat Bank ancl
Emlak Bank, and a direct program of micro-enterprise support. Details of the tax defer-al
and credit subsidy program have not yet been fully clarified, although the basic elemelits
7 SH(;EK staff costs (salary and other costs, including transportation) are estimated as TL 320 billion and
TL 960 for 2000.



9
have been announced.8  The tax scheme grants tax deferrals to businesses (and
individuals) affected by the earthquake. The scheme is estimated to cost the budget TL
209.3 trillion (US$ 463.7 million) over the 1999-2000 period as only a small portion
(about one-fourth) of the lost revenues are expected to be recoverable due to the loss of
tax records and losses arising from severely damaged businesses.9
20. The credit program features: (i) rescheduling of existing debt owed by enterprises
damaged by the earthquake and outstanding to the three state banks of three years with
one year grace on principal and interest, and (ii) new subsidized credits (Halk Bank and
Ziraat Bank only). Both the rescheduled loans and new credits are at subsidized rates
equal to no more than half the applicable rate (which is already subsidized in most cases)
for rescheduled loans and a flat 20 percent rate for new loans. The state banks will charge
the interest rate subsidy for rescheduled loans to the budget through the duty loss system.
The funding for new loans will be provided through the General Development Fund
which is a budgetary fund. To date, the Government has allocated only TL 2 trillion from
the budget to the credit program, although the total cost is expected to go substantially
higher.1 The high level of subsidy is a cause for concern. However, the banks are
putting into place operational procedures for the new credit component of the program to
ensure access by small and micro-enterprises thereby channeling part of the subsidy to
them. EIB is considering funding a targeted credit scheme for small and micro-
enterprises in the earthquake zone which would complement resources provided through
the Government's credit program. The direct program of micro-enterprise support
consists of lump-sum grants to micro-enterprises graduated on the degree of damage
suffered ranging from TL 200 million (US$ 400) for light damages to TL 350 million
(US$ 700) for medium damages to TL 500 million (US$ 1,000) for heavy damage. The
direct program of micro-enterprise support is modest in scope, with an expected cost of
US$ 23 million in total. It will be administered by the SSF. The authorities recognize the
importance of ensuring coordination between the credit programs and the direct support
program and they intend to take the amount provided under the direct support program
into consideration when determining the credit needs of individual micro-enterprises.
21. Reconstruction and Disaster Mitigation. The Government's medium-term
reconstruction and disaster mitigation efforts will be supported by the reallocations from
existing projects and the MEER project under preparation. With regard to reconstruction,
the main elements are: (i) construction of new permanent housing, (ii) rehabilitation of
housing stock which suffered medium damage, and (iii) repair and reconstruction of
damaged or destroyed public infrastructure. The housing construction program covers
both urban and rural areas. Construction under the program will be designed to meet
Turkey's seismic and environmental standards. The cost of reconstruction is estimated to
8Provisions for debt rescheduling are provided in Council of Ministers' Decision No. 99/13233 of August
20, 1999. Provision on tax deferrals are provided in the Ministry of Finance circular dated September 1,
1999.
9Tax liabilities on business that have lost one-third or more of total assets are to be entirely forgiven
according to Tax Procedure Law, Article 1 15.
10 The GDF has been allocated TL 50 trillion in the 2000 budget, but the share which will go to the credit
program has yet to be determined.



10
be approximately US$ 20,000 per housing unit. There are two elements of cost recovery
under the program: repayment of zero interest loans to beneficiaries and beneficiary
contributions. The housing reconstruction program will operate under the Disaster La'u1
which limits eligibiliity to homeowners residing in zone affected by the earthquake who
do not own another undamaged residence in the same district. Assistance is provided only
for the least damaged unit if the family owns more than one unit in the district.
Beneficiaries must have clear title to the property. The Government is working to
determine precisely how many homeowners will be eligible. The housing rehabilitation
component covers buildings which suffered medium damage, defined to be structures
which can be repaired for 30-50 percent of total replacement cost.  The cost of
rehabilitation is estimated to be US$ 9,000 per housing unit. Given the structural nature
of medium damage, r epair work will have to cover the entire building in most cases. The
Government is working to determine cost recovery mechanisms for the rehabilitation
program. The infrastructure repair component of the program covers power,
telecommunications, transport, water and sewerage, health facilities and schools damaged
by the earthquake.
22.  Disaster mitigation efforts encompass: (a) upgrades to the national emergency
management system, (b) introduction of a compulsory disaster insurance scheme to
replace outdated provisions of the Disaster Law, (c) land use planning and enforcement
of construction codes, and (d) cadaster renovation and land management. Actions to
improve the national emergency management system aim to support the establishment of
a comprehensive emergency management agency equipped with an operations center and
communications and data networks, and a national earthquake mitigation plan. The
national disaster insurance scheme is based on successful models in New Zealand and
California. Under the scheme, a Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool will be established
to make liquidity readily available to real estate tax paying owners of resideritial
dwellings destroyed or damaged by an earthquake for the purpose of repair cr
replacement. This w'ill reduce the fiscal exposure of the Government and the risk to the
national economy of major earthquakes. The land use planning and code enforcemr rt
component will support: (i) review of ongoing modifications in the current legal systern
and additional modifications as required, and (ii) strengthening of municipal capacity to
regulate, plan and implement disaster resistant development. Improvements to ;he
cadaster and land management systems in the Marmara region will help provide curreInt
and reliable land information to cope with the post-earthquake situation, and update mnd
improve obsolete registers and maps. This will also facilitate land supply operations, uiith
emphasis on housing schemes and the overall improvement of the land market.
23. Funding the Recovery Program. To cope with the fiscal burden imposed by the
earthquake, the Government is trying to mobilize external financing and raise domestic
revenues. The authorities recognize that domestic borrowing to meet the costs of the
earthquake would be very costly given the extremely high real interest rates on T-bills
and resulting crowding out of private investment at a time of high credit dema rid.
Approximately US$ 3 billion in exceptional external assistance has been tentativwly
identified including the World Bank, IMF, and other institutional and bilateral donors. At
Law No. 7269 of May 15, 1959 as subsequently amended.



I1
the same time, the Government has decided to impose temporary taxes on a broad range
of activities to boost public revenues. The revenue package currently before Parliament
includes: an additional five percent surcharge on personal and corporate income based on
the declared income for 1998; one- time motor vehicle and real estate taxes; an additional
25 percent tax on cellular phone use until June 2000; and a new stamp tax on check
transactions. This package is estimated to generate up to US$ 1.2 billion in additional
revenue. The Government is also in the process of introducing a military service waiver
scheme under which individuals born before 1973 could pay a DM 15,000 fee in order to
limit their compulsory service to two months. This scheme could raise up to US$ 600
million. In summary, these two packages would generate total revenue of some US$ 1.8
billion or close to one percent of GNP.
B. TURKEY'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
24. The Government is formulating its response to the earthquake in the context of a
broader economic reform program. This program builds upon and expands on the earlier
framework supported by the IMF under a staff monitored program (SMP) initiated in
mid-1998. The Government agreed with the IMF on the framework of a new
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform program during Article IV discussions
and review of the SMP in early July. The Government's economic reform program
combines tighter macroeconomic policies, designed to lower inflationary expectations,
with a package of structural reforms to underpin the fiscal adjustment, sustain a decline in
real interest rates and restore growth. The program targets a decline in inflation to 25
percent by the end of 2000 and to 10 percent by the end of 2001. The program also
targets a steep decline in real interest rates.
Table 3: Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Pre-Earthauake    Post-Earthauake
actual       prelim.  proiected  prelim.  proiected
______________________________   _ 1997    1998     1999     2000     1999    2000
GNP growth (%pa)                   8.2      3.8    (0.8)      4.7    (1.6)      5.8
Inflation (%CPI eop)              99.1    69.7    58.7    25.0    64.0    25.0
Inflabon (%WPI eop)               91.0    54.3    56.3    20.0    57.0    20.0
PSBR (% of GNP)                    9.0    10.0    11.9    13.2    14.2    12.0
Primary Budget Balance (%GNP)      -        3.9      2.1      5.7      1.1     5.4
Budget Interest Payments/GNP       7.8    11.7    11.4    14.7    12.8    16.9
Domestc Debt/GNP                  21.4    21.9    26.7    26.4    26.0    25.5
Current Account Balance ($ mio.)    (2,750.0)  1,872.0  (1,075.0) (3,630.0) (2,008.0) (5,663.0)
Current Account Balance (% of GNP)  (1.4)   0.9    (0.6)    (1.7)    (1.0)    (2.6)
fRER Index (1987=100)             113.6   120.6   125.3              125.3
Source: Treasury, SPO and staff estimates.
25. Before the earthquake hit, the Government was attempting to use the remainder of
1999 to regain ground lost to looser fiscal policies during the first half of the year and
initiate implementation of structural reforms. Following approval of the 1999 budget in
late June, the Government announced a 20 percent increase in civil service wages for the
second half of the year in line with the agreed fiscal and inflation targets. In early
August, the Government increased,the stamp tax by 25 percent. At the same time, there



12
have been some slippages, notably a stimulus package approved in late July after heavy
lobbing by the business community which revises certain provisions of the 1998 tax law.
Following the earthquake, the 1999 budget targets are being adjusted on the grounds that
the resulting fiscal burden represents a one-time temporary shock. The consolidated
central government budget is now targeted to generate a primary surplus of 1. 1 percent of
GNP, rather than the 2.1 percent originally programmed under the SMP (Attachment 5).
The authorities plan to meet this target through approval of the revenue package currentlty
before Parliament an(d the additional set of revenue measures detailed in paragraph .21.
All told, these actions are expected to generate approximately one percent of GNP in
additional revenue in 1999.
26. Fiscal adjustment is expected to continue in 2000 in an effort to achieve an
underlying primary surplus for the consolidated public sector which is the level estimated
to be consistent with stabilization of the public sector debt ratio in the absence of the
inflation tax. Taking into account the fiscal impact of the earthquake, the authorities are
now targeting a primary surplus for the consolidated central government of 5.4 percent of
GNP which would be consistent with a primary surplus for the consolidated public sector
of 4.8 percent of GNP. Achieving these targets will require a very substantial fiscal
adjustment involving a combination of revenue measures and expenditure reductions.
27.  To underpin its stabilization effort and restore growth, the Government is
undertaking a major structural reform program covering tax policy and put lic,
expenditure management, social security, financial sector reform, agricultural policies,
and deregulation and privatization. In substance, the specific reform measures foreseen
by the Government are in line with the recommendations provided by the Bank and the
Fund over the past several years. Importantly, given the history of aborted economic:
reforms in Turkey, the Government's program is front loaded and builds on recenl:
achievements. The core component of the tax reform was adopted already last year. IThe
new banking law, which provides for independent regulation of the financial sector, mias
approved by Parliame,nt in June. Parliament adopted major new legislation to overh,lul
the public pension system only days after the earthquake struck. While the pension
reform is not as ambitious as originally proposed by the Government, it will reduce t ie
annual deficit of the social security system over the near term by about one percent of'
GNP. In agriculture, the Government has accepted the principle of replacing the existilig
inefficient system of price and credit subsidies with a unified program of direct incoimie
support. With respect to deregulation and privatization, the Parliament has approved a
set of constitutional amnendments to allow for international arbitration which is expecti-d
to revitalize Turkey's privatization program.
C. mHE BANK'S RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
The Bank's Overall Response
28. Immediately after the earthquake struck on August 17, the Bank received a requcst
from the Government of Turkey for emergency assistance. The Bank's response is beir.g
closely coordinated with the IMF. On October 13, the Fund's Board approved in
emergency drawing for Turkey of SDR 361.5 million (approximately US$ 500 millioii)
equivalent to 37.5 percent of quota. The Bank is also assisting the Government ;o
coordinate the broader financial response of the international community to the crisis.



13
Bilateral donors and other multilateral agencies are already delivering humanitarian aid
and pledging financial assistance for reconstruction. The international community as a
whole is stepping forward to assist Turkey.
29. The Bank is implementing a four-part emergency assistance program to help
Turkey respond to this crisis. The program consists of:
Preparation of an Earthquake Assessment, circulated to the Board on September
15, which provides a preliminary assessment of the material damage, social costs
and the impact on the economy.
*    Reallocation of up to US$ 300 million in uncommitted funds from selected
ongoing IBRD operations to redirect project activities to areas and infrastructure
needs most affected by the earthquake. On September 24, the Board approved
amendments of eight loan agreements reallocating a total of US$ 267.26 million
under existing loans in six sectors to immediate priorities of the recovery effort
(Memorandum of the President No. R99-181, dated September 17, 1999).
*    Ouick-disbursing financial assistance of US$ 252.53 million through financing of
critical imports and budgetary needs provided under the proposed Emergency
Earthquake Recovery Loan.
i    New project financing for reconstruction and disaster mitigation of US$ 505
million through the proposed Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction
Project (MIEER) which has been prepared in parallel with the Emergency Recovery
Loan.
30. In developing the emergency assistance program in response to the Marmara
earthquake, Bank staff have drawn on lessons learned from the experience of previous
emergency assistance to Turkey. This previous assistance includes the US$ 285 million
loan for an Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction project in response to the
Erzincan earthquake in 1992 and the US$ 369 million loan for an Emergency Flood and
Earthquake Rehabilitation project in 1998 in response to flooding in the Western Black
Sea region of Turkey and the subsequent earthquake in the Adana region. Staff have also
drawn on the experience of emergency projects across the Bank including other quick-
disbursing emergency loans.
Project Objectives
31. The proposed Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan, following OP/BP 8.50 on
Emergency Recovery Assistance; will assist Turkey to respond quickly and effectively to
the impact of the earthquake. The main benefits will be to provide financing for
incremental private sector import needs resulting from the earthquake and for budgetary
expenditures related to the recovery effort including social protection. A key objective is
to ensure that displaced persons and other groups made vulnerable by the earthquake
receive adequate and immediate protection, particularly during the upcoming winter
months, while longer-term reconstruction efforts get underway. By providing external
financing for the exceptional requirements of the Government's recovery program in
concert with the IMF and other international partners, the proposed operation will help
the authorities keep Turkey's underlying stabilization and structural reform program on
track. While this type of operation does not include conditionality linked to



14
macroeconomic policies, monitoring of economic developments by Bank staff in close
collaboration with the IMF will help ensure adequate macroeconomic diligence on the
part of the Government.
D. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
32. The proposed Emergency Recovery Loan will provide quick-disbursing support to
finance a positive list of import requirements linked to the earthquake, while assisting the
Government to implement its earthquake recovery program and achieve its
macroeconomic objectives. The proposed loan would be quick-disbursing in order to help
meet the immediate requirements arising from the earthquake and recovery effort. The
loan will provide financing for a broad range of imports by the private sector, especially
fuel, construction materials, construction equipment, production inputs and capital
equipment, which are expected to be in demand as the recovery effort proceeds. No
disbursements will be made to cover used or luxury goods, military equipment, or nuclear
reactors. The Government will use the Turkish Lira counterpart of the loan funds to
finance priority components of its earthquake recovery program which emphasize social
protection for earthquake victims. These components, which have been agreed with the
Bank, are described in Attachment 1. The loan will include limited funding for technical
assistance related to implementation of the project. The proposed loan is part of a larger
US$ 1 billion assistance package from the Bank which takes into account the assistance
expected from the IMF, EU, and other donors (see Attachment 4 for details of the
projected external support). It is designed to complement project financing for medium.-
term reconstruction from the reallocations under existing projects and the MEER project.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIO'N
Project Organization and Management
33. The Project will be implemented by the Undersecretariat of Treasury in close
collaboration with the Central Bank of Turkey. The Treasury will open a US dol.ar
Special Account in the CBT for the loan, which will finance 100 percent of the foreig;n
exchange costs of private sector imports on the positive list agreed with the Governmeni.
Implementation Arrangements
34.  Consistent with the emergency nature of this recovery loan, implementation
arrangements have been simplified. To ensure due diligence and sound governance, tl'te
arrangements would seek to ensure: (i) that the loan proceeds are used only to financ: e
imports of items contained in the list of imports permissible under the loan (Attachmelit
1), (ii) that proper procedures are established for procurement and accounting and tlie
complete documentation of transactions; and (iii) that adequate management informati(on
is provided using suitable monitoring and audit tools.  Detailed arrangements fir
accounting, financial management, and auditing were agreed during negotiations.
35. The Treasury and the Central Bank will sign an Implementation Agreemenr:,
satisfactory to the Bank, defining the assistance to be provided by each organization. The
Treasury will:



15
*  authorize the Central Bank to administer and execute the Project;
*  approve quarterly financial management and progress reports and submit
these to the Bank; and
*  appoint independent auditors to carry out the final audit at completion of the
project.
The Central Bank will:
*  manage and operate the US Dollar Special Account (including preparing
withdrawal applications), as well as a corresponding "Special Account" in
Turkish Lira, and the sub-accounts for the recovery programs supported by
the project;
*  manage project accounts using appropriate financial management system and
providing accountable and timely financial information on project financing
and expenditures;
*  prepare and submit quarterly financial management reports and progress
reports to the Treasury for approval and submission to the Bank;
*  maintain documentation in connection with eligible imports and make this
documentation available to independent auditors; and
*  facilitate independent audit activities.
Procurement
36.  The loan proceeds will finance private sector imports against documemtation
evidencing that the imported goods were on the positive list of imports listed in
Attachment 1. Loan proceeds will be limited to goods from eligible countries under the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January
1999). No more than 50 percent of the loan will be used in the aggregate for the import
of any single item on the positive list of imports. To avoid high overhead transaction
costs for the Bank, financing will be restricted to contracts of US$ 100,000 or above.
37.  In addition to the foregoing, the loan will finance consulting services related to
implementation of the project in accordance with procedures presented in the table
below.



16
Table 4: Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Category                    Procurement Method
Through established commodity markets,
Commodities for private sector contracts    or simplified ICB as defined in Clauses
valued at or more than US$ 5 million    2.64 and 2.65 of IBRD Procurement
Guidelines
Commodities for private sector contracts    Based on established commercial practices.
valued at less than US$ 5 million.
Goods for private sector contracts valued at  Simplified ICB procedures under Clause
or more than US$ 5 million              2.64 of IBRD Procurement Guidelines
Goods for private sector contracts valued at Based on established commercial practices
less than US$ 5 million_
Consulting services related to          Based on Consultant Selection, Least-cost
implementation of the project           Selection as described under Clause 3.6,
Guidelines, Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
Note: Imports valued at less than US$ 100,000 will not be eligible for financing.
38.  A Country Procurement Assessment report for Turkey was prepared in Novembar
1996. For private sector procurement, there are no national restrictions, preferences or
counter-trade agreements regarding the source of imports. The private sector is free l i
import almost all goocds and services, and total imports last year exceeded US$ 45,)
billion.  Turkey entered into a customs union with the European Union in 199c.
Commercial practices of private sector firms are based on open competition and ai -
generally consistent with a competitive marketplace. Typically, firms obtain multipl,
quotations from traditional suppliers of the items and base their purchase decisions on the
principle of best value for money. Because of this judgment that private sector importingr
is generally profit-oriented and therefore efficient, Bank staff have determined thalt
current commercial practices would be acceptable without any additional stipulation
This is consistent with the decision to accept commercial practices for private sector
contracts for goods up to US$ 5 million under the Export Finance Intermediation Projeci
approved by the Board in July 1999. The thresholds for IBRD prior review are based or
typical contracts of medium and large companies.
39. For technical assistance to support implementation of the project, consultink;
services will be procured based on the "Guidelines, Selection and Employment oxl
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, issued in January, 1997, revised in September,
1997 and January, 1999. The method of selection will be based on Least-Cost Selection,
as described in para. 3.6 of the Guidelines.



17
40. The Central Bank, which in collaboration with the Treasury is the executing agency
for the proposed Project, has prior experience in coordinating disbursements against
imports and is capable of ensuring compliance with the agreed procurement
arrangements. The Central Bank will retain all procurement documents to ensure easy
retrieval for auditing or for the Bank's review.
Disbursement
41.  The proceeds of the loan will be disbursed against: (i) 100 percent of the delivered
cost of imports by the private sector, excluding imports duties and taxes, subject to the
agreed positive list; and (ii) 100 percent of the cost of consulting services to support
project implementation activities. Disbursements in respect of expenditures under private
sector contracts for goods costing less than US$ 5 million equivalent and for commonly
traded commodities such as petroleum, fuel products and coal will be made against
Statements of Expenditures for which supporting documentation will be retained by the
Central Bank and made available for review by Bank financial management and
procurement specialists and project auditors. The project will be implemented over a one
year period and the disbursement against imports is expected to be completed by June 30,
2000. The Closing Date for this Loan will be December 31, 2000.
42. Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing in the amount of US$ 50 million,
approximately 20 percent of the loan amount, will be provided to finance expenditures
incurred up to four months before loan signing, which will cover the entire period since
the earthquake hit on August 17.
43. Special Account. The Borrower may request disbursement through a US Dollar
Special Account to be established in the Central Bank of Turkey, with an initial
authorized allocation of US$ 50 million, approximately 20 percent of the total loan
amount. The Special Account would be replenished as and when needed to ensure timely
disbursements of funds to cover eligible imports.
Financial Management and Monitoring
44. Project Accounting. The Central Bank's Foreign Relations Department and the
Accounting Department have in place an adequate financial management system to
record, monitor and report on financial transactions pertaining to this operation. The
financial management system would cover all project components, including project
supported activities (Social Solidarity Fund and social security institutions' programs)
and project expenditures on imports per agreed positive list. A Chart of Accounts was
designed for the project at appraisal with the Accounting Department. The Chart of
Accounts will provide consistency in the classification of financial and accounting
transactions. It will also ensure sources and uses of project funds are readily matched, and
that the accounts are maintained in a complete and consistent manner with respect to
participating entities against which expenditures need to be accounted for in the reporting
requirements established for the project. The Accounting Department will be responsible
for' consolidating project financial and accounting data. The Foreign Relations
Department, working closely with the Accounting Department, will be responsible for the
administration of the Special Accounts in US Dollars and Turkish Lira, and Sub-accounts



18
for each program supported by the project. All the bank accounts will be opened at the
Central Bank. This arrangement will facilitate a common set of financial policies and
procedures, and a common system of data classification for the project, as well as
facilitate consolidation of financial data across implementing agencies. Accounting and
administrative internal controls for the project are in place. To strengthen existing
controls in lieu of the size of the program, accounting for the project has been centralized
and flow of funds procedures streamlined. A protocol which establishes procedures for
managing the flow of funds and internal reporting for the project and project supported
programs has been prepared by the Borrower. The entities implementing the project and
managing the project have in place adequate and qualified staff experienced in managing
World Bank projects (Technical Annex, Attachment 3).
45. Accounting and Auditing Standards. The accounting and auditing standards in
Turkey are based on Tax Procedure Law No. 213 and Turkish Trade Law No. 6762. Ihe
Central Bank is also obligated by The Central Bank Law No. 1211. Where national
standards are used, the Bank requires financial statements to disclose any material
departures from the Intlernational Accounting Standards, and the impact of such departure
on the financial statemnents. The Treasury and Central Bank use double-entry accrual
basis accounting.
46. Financial Reporting. The Foreign Relations Department will prepare consolidated
Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) and Progress Reports for Monitoring
Indicators and submit such reports to the Undersecretariat of Treasury within 15 days of
end of each calendar quarter for review. Preparation of such reports will be carried out in
close collaboration with the Accounting Department to ensure consistency with
accounting records and establishment of an audit trail. After review and verification of
the PMRs and the Progress Report, the Treasury will submit such reports to the Bank 415
days after end of each calendar quarter. The Progress Report will assess progress towarcls
meeting project objectives on the basis of the agreed monitoring indicators (Attachmenit
2). The quarterly reports contained in the system and agreed during negotiations are '.s
follows (formats in Project File):
(a)  Project Sources and Uses of Funds (Report 1-A)
(b)  Project Sources and Uses of Funds (Report 1-A(2)
(Turkish Lira - Project Supported Programs)
(c)  Uses of Funds by Project Activity (Report 1-B)
(d)  Project Cash Withdrawals (Disbursements) (Report 1-D)
(e)  Special Account Statement (Report 1-E)
(f)  Summary of Project Progress (Report 2)
47. The transitional reporting requirements do not include procurement managemen:
reports because procurement of goods and commodities will be carried out by the private,
sector based on imports from a positive list. While procurement arrangements for
contracts above US$ 5.0 million have been specified, no contracts above US$ 5.0 millior
for goods and US$ 5.0 million for commodities are envisaged.
48. Auditing Arrangements. The Undersecretariat of Treasury will select independeni
auditors acceptable to the Bank before the commencement of project activities. The term,



19
of reference (TOR) for the audit were discussed and agreed with the Borrower during
negotiations, and include the following: (a) assessment of adequacy and reliability of
procedures used to prepare customs certificates or similar certificates; (b) examination of
customs certificates comparing the eligible expenditures (imports) to the customs
certificates issued by the Turkish authorities for imported goods and commodities from
the agreed positive list; (c) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are
eligible for IBRD financing, and identification of any ineligible expenditures; (d) project
financial statements including total, cumulative disbursements and expenditures for the
Loan; (e) financial statements documenting the transfer of loan proceeds by the Central
Bank of Turkey to the accounts of the agreed programs under Government's earthquake
recovery program; (f) review of PMRs to provide the necessary degree of reassurance
with respect to reporting requirements; and (g) assessment of the adequacy of accounting
and internal control systems to monitor project expenditures and project supported
programs.
Supervision
49. The Bank will conduct a mid-term review of the EERL during a supervision
mission scheduled for February 2000. Particular attention will be paid to the monitoring
of the social assistance benefits, including the accommodation and repair allowances and
the lump-sum social assistance payments for death and disability. As part of the mid-
term review, a beneficiary assessment will be conducted by an independent agency which
will include the critical information of how the clients themselves feel about the program
and to monitor the timeliness of their payments. Particular attention will be paid to the
monitoring of the social assistance benefits, including the accommodation and repair
allowances and the lump-sum social assistance payments for death and disability, with a
view towards assessing whether the most vulnerable are adequately covered by these
programs. As part of the mid-term review, a beneficiary assessment will be conducted by
an independent agency which will provide critical information on how the beneficiaries
themselves feel about the program and to monitor the timeliness of payments. The Bank
will work with the agency selected to ensure that the interview guide will elicit the
monitoring information needed. The mid-term review will also include an operational
review of the earthquake recovery programs supported by the project. The objective of
the operational review is to verify and assess the adequacy of procedures and systems
used by the Social Solidarity Fund and social security institutions to deliver social
protection to earthquake victims.
Donor Coordination
50. Since the onset of the disaster, the Bank has been working with the Government
and Turkey's international partners to ensure coordination of international support. The
Earthquake Assessment prepared by Bank staff has been distributed widely among
multilateral and bilateral agencies, and is serving as an important reference. Several
agencies, including the IMF, IFC and UNDP, collaborated in the preparation of the
assessment, and a number of donors have expressed interest in co-financing or parallel
financing in the framework of the Emergency Recovery Loan (in the case of balance of
payments and budgetary support) or the MEER project (in the case of project financing
for reconstruction). The Bank will continue to support the Government in coordinating



20
international assistance during the implementation phase of the Emergency Recovery
Loan and MEER project.
F. ACTION PLAN
51. During negotiations, the Government delegation and Bank representatives reached
agreement on the remaining details of financial management, reports, and auditing, of
procurement thresho'lds, and disbursement procedures to be followed.  A set of
performance monitoring indicators was agreed (Attachment 1), selected to allow the
Bank to track the impact of the project without being unduly burdensome to the
Government. The Bank will conduct a mid-term review of the project with a supervision
mission in February 2000. During the mid-term review, the Bank and the Borrower will
assess whether the social protection programs for earthquake victims are adequate.
Effectiveness Conditiions
52. Execution of the Project Implementation Agreement between the Undersecretariat
of Treasury and the Central Bank of Turkey is a condition of effectiveness for the loan.



21
ATTACHMENT I
Republic of Turkey
Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan
Part I
POSITIVE LIST OF IMPORTS
Tariff code                                                Items
25                 Salt, sulfur, earths and stone, plastering materials, lime and cement
26                 Ores, slag and ash
27                 Mineral fuels, mineral oils and products of their distillation, bituminous substances and mineral
waxes
28                 Inorganic chemicals
29                 Organic chemicals
30                 Pharmaceutical products
32                 Tanning or dying extracts; tannins and their derivatives; dyes, pigments and other colouring matter;
paints and varnishes; putty and other mastics; inks
34                 Soap, organic surface-active agents, washing preparations, lubricating preparations, artificial
waxes, prepared waxes, polishing or scouring preparations, candles and similar articles, modeling
pastes, "dental waxes" and dental preparations with a basis of plaster
35                 Albuminoidal substances; modified starches; glues; enzymes
38                 Miscellaneous chemical products
39                 Plastics and articles thereof
40                 Rubber and articles thereof
41                 Raw hides and skins (other than furskins) and leather
44                 Wood and articles of wood; and wood charcoal
47                 Pulp of wood or otler fibrous cellulosic material; recovered (waste and scrap) paper or paperboard
48                 Paper and paperboard; articles of paper pulp, of paper or paperboard
51                 Wool, fine and coarse animal hair, horseliair yarn and woven fabric
52                 Cotton
54                 Man-made filaments
55                 Man-made staple fibers
56                 Wadding, felt and nonwovens; special yams; twine, cordage, ropes cables and articles thereof
59                 Impregnated, coated, covered or laminated textile fabrics; textile articles of a kind suitable for
industrial use
68                 Articles of stone, plaster, cement, mica, and asbestos or similar materials
69                 Ceramic products
70                 Glass and glassware
72                 Iron and steel
73                 Articles of iron and steel
74                 Copper and articles tlereof
75                 Nickel and articles tlereof
76                 Aluminum and articles thereof
78                 Lead and articles thereof
79                 Zinc and articles thereof
80                 Tin and articles tlereof
81                 Other base metals; cennets; articles thereof
83                 Miscellaneous articles of base metal
84                 Boilers, machinery and mechlaical appliances; parts thereof I/
1/ Excluding nuclear reactors and their parts



22
Tariff code                                          Items
85               Electrical machinery and equipment and parts thereof; sound recorders and reproducers,
television image and sound recorders and reproducers, and parts and accessories of such
articles
86               Railway or tramway locomotives, rolling-stock and parts thereof; railway or tramway track
fixtures and fittings and parts thereof; mechanical (including electro-mechanical) traffic
signaling equipment of all kinds
87               Vehicles other than railway or tramway rolling-stock, and parts accessories thereof
90               Optical, photcgraphic, cinematographic, measuring, checking, precision, medical or surgical
instruments and apparatus; parts and thereof
94.01 - 94.02    Medical and surgical furniture
94.06            Prefabricated constructions
96.01 - 96.13    Office equipment
PART II
Priority Programs under the Government's Earthquake Recovery Program which
are Supported by the Project
1.   accommodation assistance program  for families in the affected region whose
dwellings have collapsed or have suffered heavy or medium damage in accordance with
the decision (No. B09.D.AIS.0. 13.00.07/10465) of the Ministry of Public Works dated
September 14, 1999 and as modified by the subsequent letters of the State Minister
responsible for the Social Solidarity Fund (Nos. B 02.0 SYF/ -100-18360, 17880, arid
18303) dated September 27, 1999. In accordance with this decision the accommodation
assistance program will be administered by the Social Solidarity Fund;
2.   repairs assistance program for eligible families in the affected region whose
dwellings have sufferedl light damage in accordance with the above decision. The repairs
assistance program wil]l be administered by the SSF;
3.   payments made by the three social security institutions (Sosyal Sigortalar Kurumiu,
Emekli Sandigi and Bag-Kur) to beneficiaries in the affected region on account of dealh
benefits, survivor pensions and disability pensions which  are attributable to the
earthquake;
4.   payment of lump-sum death and disability benefits to all families in the affecte1
region which have suffered a death or disability (A Government decision to introduce this
program will be issued before the end of October). The program will be administered t y
the SSF.



23
ATTACHMENT 2
Republic of Turkey
Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan
Monitoring Indicators
The objective of the Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan is to assist Turkey to
respond quickly and effectively to the impact of the earthquake while keeping the
Government's economic reform program on track. The main benefits will be to provide
financing for incremental private sector import needs resulting from the earthquake and
for budgetary expenditures related to recovery efforts including social assistance and
other priorities.. The following indicators will be used to monitor the effectiveness of the
project:
* Gross reserves of the Central Bank of Turkey not to fall below five months of
imports of goods and services.
* The primary surplus of the consolidated Central Government not to be less than
1.0 percent of GNP in 1999.
3 Accommodation assistance and Repair assistance payments to be made to all
eligible recorded beneficiaries in accordance with the decision (No.
B09.D.AIS.0.13.00.07/10465) of the Ministry of Public Works dated September
14, 1999 and as modified by the subsequent letters of the State Minister responsible
for the Social Solidarity Fund (Nos. B 02.0 SYF/ -100-18360, 17880, and 18303)
dated September 27, 1999.
* Lump-sum death and disability payments to be made to all eligible and
registered beneficiaries in accordance with the Government decision to be issued
by October 31, 1999. This program will be administered by the Social Solidarity
Fund.
*  Payments to be made by the three social insurance funds (SSK, Bag-Kur, and
ES) to all eligible beneficiaries on account of death benefits, survivor pensions and
disability pensions which are attributable to the earthquake.



24
ATrACHMENT 3
Republic of Turkey
Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan
Financial Management Assessment
Objectives and Project Description
1.   Objective of Financial Management Assessment.  The objective of the financial
management assessmernt was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate
financial management system, including acceptable financial management and
accounting controls as required by the Bank in OP/BP 10.02.
2.  Project Objectives and Project Description. The proposed Emergency Earthquake
Recovery Loan will assist the Government of Turkey to respond effectively to the August
17 earthquake in the northwestern Marmara region while keeping its economic reform
program on track.
Sources and Flow of Funds
3.   The proposed IBRD Loan of US$ 252.53 million will finance 100 percent of
delivered cost of general imports by the private sector, excluding import duties and taxes,
and subject to an agreed positive list. The IBRD Loan will be channeled through Special
Accounts in US dollars and Turkish Lira to opened in the Central Bank of Turkey (the
Central Bank). The Central Bank as a representative of the Undersecretariat of Treasury
will have the responsibility of administering the Special Account. It will be responsible
for submitting withdrawal applications for advance payment and replenishments of the
Special Account to cover the IBRD Loan share of eligible imports. Upon receipt Af
written transfer payments order from the Undersecretariat of Treasury, the Central Ba&dk
will transfer the IBRD funds to a Special Account in Turkish Lira held at the Central
Bank. The Undersecretariat of Treasury will provide the Central Bank with names f
authorized signatories with authority to sign withdrawal applications.
4.   Under the Special Account in local currency, Sub-accounts for the emergen,:y
earthquake recovery programs will be established within the same depository bank, arid
managed by the Foreign Relations Department. The Sub-accounts under the Soci;al
Solidarity Fund will service programs for families in affected regions and will support:
(a) accommodation assistance;. (b) repair assistance; and (c) one-time lump suin
assistance for death and disability. The Sub-accounts under Social Security Institutioris
will support payments made by the three social security institutions (Sosyal Sigortatl r
Kurumu, Emekli Sandigi and Bag-Kur) to beneficiaries in the affected region on accournt
of death benefits, survivor pensions and disability pensions attributable to the earthquake.
To streamline flow of iunds and enhance transparency, all bank accounts will be held at
the Central Bank and project accounting centralized. The Treasury has prepared a
protocol which establishes procedures for managing the flow of funds and internal
reporting for the projeclt and project supported programs (Attachment 6).



25
5.   Statements of Expenditure (SOE).  Under the SOE withdrawal procedure, the
Central Bank will forward to the Bank an application for reimbursement of payments
already made and eligible for IBRD financing. Relevant supporting documents including
customs certificates and invoices as evidence of payment will be retained by the Central
Bank and made available for inspection by Bank representatives and the independent
auditors.
6. Retroactive financing. Payments made after the emergency occurred and within
four months prior to the expected date of loan signing are permissible for payments; to a
cumulative maximum of US$ 50 million, approximately 20 percent of the loan amount.
Implementation Arrangements
7.   The Project will be implemented by the Undersecretariat of Treasury in close
collaboration with the Central Bank. Both the Treasury and the Central Bank will sign an
'Implementation Agreement'.  The parties' obligations under the Implementation
Agreement will be as follows:
(a) Undersecretariat of Treasury
(i)  authorize the Central Bank to administer and execute the Project;
(ii) comply with all the contractual provisions of the Loan Agreement;
(iii) establish a Special Account in the Central Bank of the Republic of
Turkey for the Loan;
(iv) approve Quarterly Financial Management Reports and Progress
Reports on Monitoring Indicators for the Loan, prepared by the Central
Bank, and submit such reports to the World Bank within 45 days after
end of each calendar quarter; and
(v) appoint independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank to carry out the
Loan final audit.  The final audit will cover total, cumulative,
disbursement and expenditures for the Loan. The audit will also cover:
(i) financial statements documenting the transfer of the loan funds by
the Central Bank to the accounts of the programs under the
Government's earthquake recovery program as agreed with the Bank,
and (ii) a review of the internal controls of each of the programs to
which such funds are transferred.
(b) Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey (Department of Foreign Relations!
(i)  prepare disbursement requests including replenishment of the Special
Account, prepare records for disbursements made on basis of
Statements of Expenditures;



26
(ii)  sign and submit the disbursement requests under the Loan at least
monthly;
(iii) maintain records and accounts for the Special Account (US Dollar and
Turkish Lira), and open sub-accounts for each program that will be
supported by the project;
(iv) establish and maintain appropriate records reflecting the transactions
financed under the Loan, including all documentation in connection
with eligible imports and transfer of the funds from the loan to the
accounts of the programs under the Government's earthquake recovery
program as agreed with the Bank, and allow access to such information
to the independent auditors and representatives of the Bank whenever
required;
(v)  confirm the eligibility of import documents supporting disbursements
under the Loan based on the positive list agreed with the Bank;
(vi) prepare Quarterly Financial Management Reports (PMRs) per agreed
format, and Progress Reports of Monitoring Indicators and submit the
reports to the Undersecretariat of Treasury within 15 days of end of
each calendar quarter for review and submission to the Bank; and
(vii) facilitate independent audit activities including provision of records and
docutnentation covering the import of eligible goods and commodities,
and the transfer of funds from the Loan to the accounts of the programs
under the Government's earthquake recovery program as agreed with
the Bank.
(c) Undersecrerlariat of Treasury and the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey
(i)  Undersecretariat of Treasury approves quarterly reports prepared by thb
Central Bank of Turkey and subnmits said reports to the Bank within 4:i
days after end of each calendar quarter.
(ii)  Undersecretariat of Treasury and the Central Bank of Turkey jointl"r
prepare and submit to the Bank the Implementation Completion Report
for the Loan after completion of the Project.
Financial Management: and Reporting
8.   Project Accounting. The Central Bank has in place adequate financial managemeni
system to record, monitor and report on financial transactions pertaining to this operation
The financial management system would cover all project components, including projeci
supported activities (Social Solidarity Fund and social security institutions' programsl
and project expenditures on imports per agreed positive list. The centralized Accounting
Department in the Central Bank will be responsible for consolidating project financial
data. A Chart of Accounts was designed for the project at appraisal, with the Accounting



27
Department. The Chart of Accounts will provide consistency in the classification of
financial and accounting transactions. It would also ensure sources and uses of project
funds are readily matched, and that the accounts are maintained in a complete and
consistent manner with respect to participating entities against which expenditures need
to be accounted for in the reporting requirements established for the project. The
reporting and maintaining of records and accounts for the Special Account, the Turkish
Lira Account and associated Sub-accounts for the programs under the emergency
recovery program will be the responsibility of the Foreign Relations Department. The
bank accounts will be established at the Central Bank. This arrangement would facilitate
common set of financial policies and procedures, common system of data classification
for the project, and facilitate consolidation of financial data across implementing
agencies.
9.  Reporting. The Quarterly Project Management Reports and Progress Reports will
be prepared by the Foreign Relations Department and submitted to the Treasury for
review within 15 days of end of each calendar quarter for review. Preparation of such
reports will be carried out in close collaboration with the Accounting Department to
ensure consistency with accounting records and establishment of audit trail. After review
and verification of the reports, the Treasury will submit the reports to the Bank within 45
days after end of each calendar quarter. The Progress Report will assess progress towards
meeting project objectives on the basis of the agreed monitoring indicators (Attachment
2). The quarterly reports contained in the system and agreed during technical discussions
are as follows (formats in Project File):
(a)  Project Sources and Uses of Funds (Report 1-A
(b)  Project Sources and Uses of Funds (Report 1-A(2)
(Turkish Lira - Project Supported Programs)
(c)  Uses of Funds by Project Activity (Report 1-B)
(d)  Project Cash Withdrawals (Disbursements) (Report 1-D)
(e)  Special Account Statement (Report 1-E)
(f)  Progress Report (Report 2)
The transitional reporting requirements do not include a procurement management report.
Procurement will be done by the private sector based on imports from a positive list and
any contracts above US$ 5.0 million for goods and US$ 5.0 million. for commodities will
follow simplified procurement procedures.
Internal Controls
10. Accounting and administrative internal controls for the project are in place. To
strengthen existing controls in lieu of the size of the program, the flow of finds
procedures have been streamlined and managing the Special Account for the project and
all related subaccounts is centralized at the Central Bank. Project accounting has been
centralized and a protocol prepared which establishes procedures for managing the flow
of funds and internal reporting for the project and project supported programs. The
operational guidelines and procedures will be documented in the operational manual, in
the format agreed with the Borrower during negotiations and included in the Action Plan.



28
Staffing
11. The Foreign Relations Department (PIU) and the Treasury have in place adequate
and qualified staff experienced in managing World Bank projects. The project team
includes a staff of eight with segregated duties.
Accounting and Auditing Standards
12. The accounting and auditing standards in Turkey are based on Tax Procedure Law
No. 213 and Turkish Trade Law No. 6762. The Central Bank is also obligated by The
Central Bank Law No. 1211. The national standards are not fully in compliance with
international standards. Where national standards are used, the Bank requires financial
statements to disclose any material departures from the International Accounting
Standards, and the irnpact of such departure on the financial statements. The Central
Bank and Treasury use double-entry accrual basis accounting.
Auditing Arrangements
13.  The Treasury will select independent auditors acceptable to the Bank before the
commencement of project activities. The terms of reference (TOR) for the audit were
discussed and agreed during negotiations and a requirement for appointment of
independent auditors included in the agreed Action Plan. The final audit will cover:
(a)  total, cumulative disbursements and expenditures for the Loan;
(b) financial statements documenting the transfer of loan proceeds by the Cent ral
Bank of Turkey to the accounts of the programs under Governmer:t';
earthquake recovery program as agreed with the Bank;
(c) review of internal controls of each of the programs to which such funds ;Irc
transferred.;
(d)  Project Management Reports to provide the necessary degree of reassurar ve
with respect to reporting under PMRs;
(e)  assessment of adequacy and reliability of procedures used to prepare custorris
certificates or similar certificates;
(f)  examination of customs certificates comparing the eligible expenditurSs
(imports) to the customs certificates issued by the Turkish authorities for
imported goods and commodities from the agreed positive list;
(g)  verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank, including thoi;e
submitted in the PMRs, are eligible for IBRD financing, and identification of
any ineligible expenditures.
14.  In addition to the financial audit, an operational review  and a beneficiaiy
assessment of the recovery programs supported by the project will be carried out i y
independent reviewers during the mid-term Review. The operational review will
determine whether the institutions' procedures and systems are adequate to providle
reasonable assurance thiat objectives will be achieved effectively and efficiently.



29
Conclusion
15. Review of financial management system, including internal controls, project
accounting, quality of staff implementing and managing the project, and financial
reporting capacity of the Central Bank's Foreign Relations Department indicate the
project has satisfied the Bank's financial management requirements as required under
OPJBP 10.02.  An Action Plan to strengthen such systems was agreed during
negotiations. Loan disbursements will be based on traditional disbursement procedures
and not PMR-based disbursements. PMRs will be used for reporting purposes. This is in
accordance with the agreement reached between the Bank and the Borrower.



30
ATTACHMENT 4
Republic of Turkey
Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan
Balance of Payments, 1997-2000
Baseline                   Post-Earthquake
1998         1999          2000            1999          2000
Current account ba4lnce                               1.872        -1,075       -3,630           -2,008        -5,663
(percent of GNP)                                     0.9         -0.6          -1.7             -1.0          -2.6
Trade Balance                                    -14,332       -12,413      -16,628          -13,113      -18,010
Exports                                          31,220       29,078        30,281           28,567       30,031
Imports                                         -45,552      -41,491       -46,909          -41,680       -48,041
Services (net)                                   10,477        5,476         6,899            5,243        6,24U
of which interest (net)                         -2,342        -3,209        -3,066          -3,242        -3,170
Private transfers                                 5,568         5,480        5,707            5,480         5,707
Ofricial transfers                                 159           382           392             382           392
Capital account balance                                545          7,535        7,799            7,535         7,649
Direct investment                                   573           545           645             545           645
Portfolio investment (excl. Pri vatization)       -6,057          450          -500              450          -500
Public Sector (incl. Central Bank of Turkey)      -1,221         1,895        5,680            1,895         5,530
Privatization                                      250           500         1,500              500         1,350
Borrowing (net)                                  -1,933         1,225        3,600            1,225         3,600
Bonds (net)                                      -261         1,979         4,500           1,979         4,500
Loans (net)                                    -1,672          -754         -900             -754          -900
Central Bank of Turkey (net)                       462           170           580              170          580
Domestic Money Bank (net)                          1.935         2,272          631            2,272          631
OtherPrivate Sector(net)                           5,315        2,373         1,343            2,373         1 i3
ErroraandOmissions                                   -2,197          131             0              131            0
Overall Balance and Change in Grass Reserves           220          6,591        4,169            5,658         1,S 16
Projected fmancing gap relative to the baseline         ..            ...          ...             933         2,113
Cumulative gap                                                                                              3,1: 6
Exceptional Foreign Financing                                                                       800         2,3! *
Wold Bank                                                                                       300           7!0
of which EERL                                                                                   100           1!2
IMF                                                                                             500
European Fund and BIB                                                                                         9:! 1
Islamic Development Bank                                                                                      300
Japan                                                                                                         20D
Others                                                                                                       1lt
Cumulative Exceptional Foreign Financing                                                                        3,1 2
Memorandum items:
Gross reserves                                    19,893       26,484        30,653           26,484       30,6 3
in months ofimportAsofG&NFS                        3.9           5.5           5.7             5.3           5 t
Gross Reaerves (in percent) 1/                      51.4         60.9          70.4             59.4          704
Short-tem debt/foreignreserves                       137          116           107             119           10'
1/ Central bank foreign reserves divided by the end-period short-tenm debt plus MLT debt repayments falling due in the year.



31
ATTACHMENT S
Republic of Turkey
Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan
Table AS-1: Consolidated Central Government Budget, 1997-2000
Without Quake 2/      With Quake
f % of GNP)                              1997      1998      1999      2000      1999      2000
Total Revenue                                     19.2     21.5      22.5       26.2      22.1      26.1
Tax Revenue                                      16.2      17.4      17.8      19.3      17.4      19.2
Direct                                           6.6        8.1      7.9        7.9       7.8       7.9
Indirect                                         9.6       9.3       9.9       11.4       9.6      11.3
Non-tax Revenue                                   3.0       4.1       4.7       6.9       4.7       6.9
Expenditure                                      26.9      29.3      33A        37.2      33.8      37.6
Non-interestExpenditure                          19.2      17.7      20.5      20.3      21.0      20.7
Personnel                                        7.1       7.3       8.4       8.0       8.4        8.0
Other Current                                    2.3       2.5       2.9       3.0       2.9       3.1
Transfers                                        7.8       6.0       7.7       7.5       8.0       7.7
Investment                                       2.0       1.9       1.6       1.8        1.7       1.9
Primary Balance                                   0.0       3.9       2.0        6.0       1.1       5.4
Interest Payments                                 7.8      11.7      12.8       16.9      12.8      16.9
Overall Balance                                   -7.7      -7.8     -10.9     -10.9    -11.8      -11.5
Memorandum items
Consolidated public sector primary surplus I/     0.1       2.5      -0.3        5.9      -I.4       4.8
PSBR                                              6.7       9.2      13.1      10.8      14.2      12.0
Source: Treasury, SPO and staff estimates.
I/ Housing investments and social assistance programs will be financed by extra-budgetary funds, included in
consolidated public sector accounts.
2/ "Without Quake" budget figures do not correspond with "Pre-Earthquake" figures in Table 3 as underlying GNP and
inflation estimates differ.



32
Attachment 5
Table A5-2: Fiscal Cost of Accommodation and Repair Assistance
Number of Eigibitty   Monthly  Total Cost Total Cost Total Cost Total Cost Total Cost Total Cost
Recipients per family    Cost  1999      1999       2000      2000      99-00     99-00
._________________  TL mil.    TLbil    TL bil  S mil    TL bil  S mil   TL bi      S miL
Accomodation Assistarkce
Collapsedd/Heavydamage              90,000.0     100.0   9,000.0  27,000.0      57.1   81,000.0    141.4   108,000.0    19&4
Light Damage Repair Assistance
Light damage                         85,000.0    600.0            51,000.0     107.8                        51,000.0    107:8
Grand Total                         175.000.0                     768000.0     164.9   81.000.0    141.4   159000.0    306.3
Source: Social Solidanty Fund and Staff estimates.
Table A5-3: Fiscal Cost of One-Time Lump Sum Social Assistance
Victims    Eligibilty  Allowance  Allowance   Total Cost  Total Cost
(person)    (ratio)   per person  per person        1999          1999
TL million       (5)        TL bil       (S miol-
Lossoflife                                         18,000        10096          750       1,586      13,500.0          2K.5
Disabilities compensation [first degree]            6,000        100%           500       1,057       3,000.0            m .3
Disabilities compensation [second degreel           5,000        1 00%1o        300         634       1,500.0            :.2
Total                                              11,000                                             4,500.0           'i.5
Grand total                                       29.000                                            18.000.0           3tL.1
Source: Social Solidarity Fund and Staff estimates.



33
Table A5-4: Fiscal Cost of Social Insurance Benefits
Number of Etgibifty   Monthly  Total Cost Total Cost Total Cost Total Cost Total Cost Total Cost
Recipients per famiiy   Cost  1999      1999      2000     2000      99-00     99-00
.___________________________  TL mil.   TL bil    TL bil      nmil    TL bil  S nil    TL bi  S il
Disabiityandsurvivorpensionpaym.      7,971               368.2  1,464.9       5.0   10,792.0    1&8    12,258.9    23.8
SSK                                  4,643     66.6    309.4  1,237.6        26    6,312.0     11.0    7,549.6    13.6
ES                                   2,050     108.0    221.4    885.6       1.9   3,321.0      5.8    4,206.6      7.7
Bagkur                               1,278     44.5      56.8    227.3       0.5    1159.0      2.0    1,386.3      2.5
Funeral Payment                       3,852                        305.5       0.6                         305.5     0.6
SSK                                  2,650     60.0              159.0       0.3                         159.0      0.3
ES                                    558     228.0              127.2       0.3                          127.2     0.3
Bagkur                                644      30.0               19.3       0.0                          19.3      0.0
Total                                 11=823                     1,7704        5.6   10792.0    1&8    12562.4    24.4
Source: Social Security Institutions and Staff estimates.
Table A5-4: Fiscal Cost of Eligible Social Programs
Number of Total Cost Total Cost Total Cost Total Cost  Total Cost Total Cost
Recipients   1999        1999       2000        2000       99-00       99-00
Name of Proaram                                       TL bil      S n-il    TL bil       S nil       TL bi       S nril
Accomofidation assistance                   90,000   27,000.0         57.1   81,000.0       141.4   108,000.0     198.4
Repair assistance                           85,000   51,000.0        107.8                           51,000.0     107.8
One-time lump sum social assistance         29,000   18,000.0         38.1                           18,000.0      38.1
Social insurarice benefits                   11,823    1,770.4         5.6  10,792.0         18.8    12,582.4      24.4
Total                                     215 823   97,770.4       208.6  91,792.0         160.2   189.562.4     368.8
Source: Social Security Institutions, Social Solidarity Fund and Staff estimates.



Pe////l ~~/   I'! \ #/S    l:
SYD 1|| n . 0   i i A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
$W1   g /'''i ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6    0
k   X   D  A   w ____ '  {~~~~~~~~~I
ifit tts0d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
si~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6
'I  t~~*  0



