                                                                                                            91797
Rebuilding After Disaster Struck Turkey                                                                     September 17, 2002
                          On August 17, 1999, a massive earthquake devastated Turkey's Marmara region.  Seventeen thousand people
                          were killed in the quake, which measured 7.4 on the Richter scale.  Hundreds of thousands more lost their homes
                          and livelihoods.  Turkey's industrial heartland was extensively damaged. 

                          The international community reacted swiftly. The World Bank provided $252 million for emergency recovery
                          assistance.  Another $505 million was provided for the construction of 11,502 new homes in eight different sites
                          throughout the devastated region.

Thousands of people were involved in the rebuilding effort.  Fourteen contractors built low concrete buildings that were designed and
constructed to withstand future tremors.  Duzce, in Western Turkey, was the first of the affected communities to rise again, being rebuilt
around a combination of new apartment buildings, a new school for 240 students, and a new health center.  More than 8,000 housing
units have been built for survivors of the quake. 

Together, the World Bank and Turkish authorities also are taking steps to safeguard people against any future quakes. Two million
earthquake insurance policies have been issued through the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool, and the Turkish Emergency
Management Agency has been established to respond effectively to future crises.

"I wish never to live again with the fear that my house might collapse on top of me," says Havva Cosar, a Turkish woman who received a
key to a new house.  Kenan Karadeniz, an accountant in the rebuilt town of Duzce, also moved into a new home built with funds from the
World Bank. "I can't recognize this as the same place I walked through after the earthquake when the streets were destroyed," Karadeniz
said. "The city is being rebuilt."


Related Links:
  Turkey
  Disaster Management Facility
  Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan
  Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project

Updated: September 2002
