Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7919-LC 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Economic and Social Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 24, 2010                                      
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 24, 2010, entered into between SAINT LUCIA (
“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of : (a) the 
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macroeconomic policy framework.  
 
The Borrower has also requested the International Development Association (“Association”), to 
provide additional assistance in support of the Program, and by an agreement of even date 
herewith between the Borrower and the Association (“Financing Agreement”), the Association is 
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to five million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,3,000,000).  
 
The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of four million Dollars ($4,000,000), as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
2.04.  
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Page  3
-2- 
 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.   
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with 
the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period shall be 
changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such 
amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of 
the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM  
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the Borrower
’s macroeconomic policy framework and the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower
’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent with 
the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action listed 
in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any event 
specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
Page  5
-4- 
 
(a) 
The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out 
the P
rogram and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
 
(b) 
The Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
thereunder (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement), have been fulfilled.  
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
3
rd
 Floor Financial Center 
Bridge Street 
Castries, Saint Lucia 
 
Telephone:  
 
Facsimile: 
1-758-468-5502  
1-758-452-6700 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
-5- 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
By /s/ Michael Louis 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Yvonne Tsikata 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the
Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
Improving Business Environment, Competitiveness, and Strengthening the Financial Sector
1. 
The Borrower has, submitted to its Parliament an Insurance Bill. 
2. 
The Borrower, through its High Court, has appointed a judicial manager to perform a 
review of BAICO within the Borrower’s territory, with a view to recommending an 
orderly resolution in connection with the insolvency of BAICO. 
Improving Public Sector Governance and Economic Management
3. 
The Borrower has established a cap on public service employment to hold the size of 
funded positions at the FY 2008/2009 levels (6884 funded positions), and stopped the 
funding of vacant approved positions as outlined in the FY 2009/2010 budget (7603 
approved positions) in said sector. 
4. 
The Borrower has merged its Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Planning 
and National Development to create the Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and 
National Development under the administration of a single Permanent Secretary, 
pursuant to its Cabinet Decision No. 989 of 2009. 
5. 
The Borrower has: (a) submitted to its Parliament a Value Added Tax Bill; and (b) has 
established a VAT Implementation Unit and made said unit functional with adequate 
staffing and resources.  
6. 
The Borrower has commenced the implementation of ASYCUDA World program in its 
customs department as follows: (a) allocated an amount of approximately EC$1.5 million 
for the implementation of said program in the FY 2009/2010 budget; (b) launched a 
training program for its customs administration personnel; (c) completed a prototype 
software for ASYCUDA World program; and (d) developed a corporate strategic and 
business plan outlining a sequential implementation of said ASCYUDA World program 
for the next three years.   
Improving Effectiveness and Efficiency of Social Safety Nets
7.  
The Borrower has: (a) completed a Social Safety Net Assessment; and (b) conducted 
subsequent stakeholder consultations on the results of said assessment.  
8. 
The Borrower has established a Social Safety Net Steering Committee to spearhead 
reform efforts of its Social Safety Net System. 
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make 
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end 
is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan] 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
 
3,990,000 
(2) Front-end Fee 
 
10,000 
(3) Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement  
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
4,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by 
 
the Bank into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable 
 
to the Bank; and 
2. 
 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount 
 
of the Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted 
 
for in the Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
1. 
have the account referred to in Section C.1 of  this Section II audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months of the 
date of the Bank’s request for such audit, or such later date as the Bank may agree, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request; and  
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the  account, and audit in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning July 15, 2015 
 
through January 15, 2040 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
Page  11
-10- 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
Page  12
-11- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions
1. 
“ASYCUDA World” means the Automated System for Customs Data provided by 
UNCTAD (as hereinafter defined). 
 
2. 
“BAICO” means the British American Insurance Company, which operates across the 
Caribbean region (including the territory of the Borrower), and currently under judicial 
management in the Borrower’s territory.   
 
3. 
“Eastern Caribbean Dollar” and “EC” mean the currency of the Borrower. 
 
4. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Page  13
-12- 
 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
5. 
“Financing Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the Association 
in support of the Program, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement may be 
amended from time to time.  “Financing Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules 
and agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on April 1 of each 
year and ending on March 31 of the following year. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
8. 
“High Court” means “the court established pursuant to the Borrower’s Eastern Caribbean 
Supreme Court (Saint Lucia) Act, Supreme Court Order Cap2.01 of the 2006 Revised 
laws of the Borrower. 
 
9. 
“Insurance Bill” means the Borrower’s proposed Insurance Bill which is intended to be 
enacted into law to govern, 
inter alia
,
the regulation of the insurance business in the 
Borrower’s territory. 
 
10. 
“Parliament” means the legislative assembly of the Borrower. 
Page  14
-13- 
 
11. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated April 29, 2010, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
 
12. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Social Safety Net Assessment” means the Borrower’s social safety net assessment dated 
August 2009.  
 
14. 
“Social Safety Net Steering Committee” means the Borrower’s inter-ministerial 
committee established pursuant to the Borrower’s Cabinet Conclusion No. 248 of 2010. 
 
15. 
“Social Safety Net System” means the Borrower’s social protection system consisting of 
noncontributory transfer programs designed to provide support to the poor or the 
vulnerable groups. 
 
16. 
“UNCTAD” means The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.
 
17. 
“Value Added Tax” and “VAT” mean the Borrower’s levy or charge on goods and 
services to be established pursuant to the enactment of the proposed Value Added Tax 
Bill (as hereinafter defined). 
 
18. 
“Value Added Tax Bill” means the Borrower’s proposed Value Added Tax Bill, which is 
intended to be enacted into law to govern the application and collection of the Value 
Added Tax.  
 
19. 
“VAT Implementation Unit” means the unit to be established within the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance, with the responsibility for administration of the Value Added Tax. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is 
modified to read as follows:  
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and 
Interest 
Page  15
-14- 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association
 (“Preparation 
Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan 
Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan 
Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  
The Bank shall pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may 
be, and shall cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
Page  16
-15- 
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”  
 
