Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5735 
Operation Name 
Economic and Social Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);General public 
administration sector (35%);General industry and trade sector 
(15%) 
Project ID 
P117016 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ST. LUCIA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance 
2nd Floor, Financial Centre 
Bridge Street 
St. Lucia 
Tel: (758) 468-5520 
Fax:  (758) 451-9231 
minfin@gosl.gov.lc 
Date PID Prepared 
May 10, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 20, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
June 8, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
 
The proposed DPL/DPC supports policies and reforms that will assist the Government of St. Lucia in 
dealing with the emerging short term economic challenges and further advancing the country’s longer 
term development agenda. After growing 3.6 percent annually on average during 2003-2007, economic 
activity slowed down sharply as the country was hit by multiple external shocks in recent years.  Starting 
with the Hurricane Dean in August of 2007, the external shocks continued with an earthquake in 
November 2007, and the food and energy price hikes in 2007-2008.  The growth rate fell to 0.7 percent in 
2008 and the real GDP is estimated to have contracted by 5.2 percent in 2009 due to adverse impacts of 
the global crisis.  The economic contraction has increased the unemployment rates—which may worsen 
an already high level of poverty
1
.
St. Lucia’s vulnerable groups are expected to be significantly affected 
by the global crisis.  Given the rigidity of the budget due to high debt servicing and wage bill, the fall of 
fiscal revenues has further limited the Government’s room for maneuver.  
This DPL/DPC is designed to support the Government program and fits within the framework of the 
Regional Partnership Strategy (RPS) for Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS). The 
Government articulated its program in the budget speech for FY2010/11 on April 19, 2010, which 
focused primarily on generating growth, securing jobs, promoting competitiveness and protecting 
vulnerable citizens in the face of global recession. The new RPS FY10-14, scheduled to be discussed by 
the Board on June 3, 2010, rests on two pillars (i) Building Resilience and (ii) Enhancing 
Competitiveness and Stimulating Sustainable Growth. The proposed DPL/DPC is viewed in the new RPS 
as the beginning of a multi-year engagement with St. Lucia. It also aims to create a policy platform for 
medium-term reforms to be supported by the Bank or other donors in the future.  
1
Poverty was estimated at 28.8 percent in 2005/06.  
Page  2
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
 
The proposed DPL/DPC seeks to contribute to the following Development Objectives: 
(a) continuous 
sound economic management that put the public debt on a sustainable path; (b) 
improved 
competitiveness and a better business environment through trade facilitation and ease in creating and 
registering companies as well as  a  healthier  financial sector through improved regulation and 
supervision; (c) a more effective and efficient public sector by improving public finances, containing  
wage bill pressures and initiating public administration reforms; (d) a better targeted and more affordable 
system of social assistance that protects the poor.
 
3. 
Preliminary description  
 
The proposed DPL/DPC supports policies and reforms that will assist the Government of St. Lucia in 
dealing with the emerging short term economic challenges and further advancing the country’s longer 
term development agenda. More specifically, the goal of the program is to help the country manage the 
impact of the global crisis, while accelerating the structural transformation of the economy to improve 
public service delivery and social assistance, enhance the country’s competitive position and better 
manage the inherent vulnerability of a small and open economy. The proposed DPL/DPC is organized 
around three pillars, consistent with the Government’s Program. Consequently, the program supports core 
measures to help (a) improve the business environment, competitiveness, and financial sector; (c) 
improve public sector governance and economic management; and (d) strengthen effectiveness and 
efficiency of social safety nets.  
T
he Government’s current program aims at promoting sustained high economic growth, laying the 
ground for private sector development, improving fiscal and debt sustainability, reducing vulnerabilities, 
alleviating poverty and advancing the nation’s social development agenda. The reform policies supported 
under this DPL are selective critical policy actions that contribute to the achievement of longer term 
development objectives. S
upport to 
Government’s fiscal and external financing needs is critical for 
maintaining macroeconomic stability in the face of the global economic crisis and the focus on 
implementing the Government’s program—which will better position St. Lucia for a quicker 
recovery. Better regulation of the banking and insurance sectors supports mitigation of any 
contagion risks from the ongoing global crisis. Improvements in governance and public sector 
service delivery contribute to reinforcing fiscal and debt sustainability through efficient use of 
resources while, at the same time, lay the ground for enhanced competitiveness and growth through 
increased effectiveness of public services. Improvements in the business environment contribute to 
promoting domestic and foreign investment. Increased short term public assistance contributes to 
mitigating the impact of the crisis on the poor and to preventing a potential rise in poverty as a 
significant portion of the population in St. Lucia could fall into poverty in the case of a negative 
external shock. Increased efficiency and effectiveness of the social safety nets contribute to better 
targeting of social assistance programs and more efficient use of limited public resources.
 
4. 
Environment Aspects  
 
Specific actions supported by this DPL are not likely to have effects on the environment, forests, or other 
natural resources. The supported reforms aim primarily at strengthening public financial management and 
budgetary discipline, improving private sector competitiveness, and protecting the poor. At the same time, 
the Government has devised programs and policies to assess and manage potential adverse effects on the 
environment.   
 
Page  3
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: 
 
IDA 
SDR 5.3 million (US$ 8 million equivalent) 
IBRD US$4 
million 
 Total 
US$12 
million 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Zafer Mustafaoglu 
Title: Senior Economist 
World Bank 
Latina American and Caribbean Region 
PREM, Economic Policy Sector 
1818 H Street NW 
Room I 4-011, Mailstop I 4-405 
Washington, D.C. 2044 
Phone: (202) 458-5431 
Fax: (202) 522 2119 
Email: 
zmustafaoglu@worldbank.org
