Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4919 
Operation Name 
LC Economic and Social DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);General public 
administration sector (35%);General industry and trade sector 
(15%) 
Project ID 
P117016 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ST. LUCIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
July 13, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 23, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 17, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
 
The proposed DPL supports policies and reforms that will assist the Government of St. Lucia in dealing with the 
emerging short term economic challenges and further advancing the coun
try’s longer term development agenda. 
After growing 3.6 percent annually on average during 2003-2007, economic activity slowed down sharply as the 
country was hit by multiple external shocks in recent years.  Starting with the Hurricane Dean in August of 2007, 
the external shocks continued with an earthquake in November 2007 and the food and energy price hikes in 2007-
2008.  The growth rate fell to 0.7 percent in 2008 and the real GDP is projected to contract by 2.5 percent in 2009 
due to the adverse impact of the global crisis.  The economic contraction has increased the unemployment rates—
which may worsen an already high level of poverty
1
.
St. Lucia’s vulnerable groups are expected to be 
significantly affected by the global crisis.  Given the rigidity of the budget due to high debt servicing and wage 
bill, the fall of fiscal revenues has further limited the Government’s room for maneuver.  
The DPL is designed to support the program of the government and fits within the framework of the Organization 
of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The government articulated its program 
in the Budget Speech for the FY2009/10
2
.
The government program focuses on private sector development, a 
stronger financial sector, regional integration, mitigation of the social impact of the crisis, and greater 
effectiveness and efficiency of the public service and operations of Government Departments. In addition, the 
vision of the government articulated in this document reflects the dialogue between the authorities and the Bank. 
The OECS CAS supports the sub-region’s development agenda through two main pillars (a) stimulating growth, 
improving competitiveness, (b) reducing vulnerability, and promoting social inclusion. Both the Base Case (IDA 
only) and the High Case (using IDA resources) contemplate a possible DPL for Saint Lucia.  
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
 
The DPL seeks to contribute to the following Development Objectives: 
(a) continuous sound economic 
management that put the public debt on a sustainable path; (b) 
improved competitiveness and a better business 
environment through trade facilitation and ease in creating and registering companies as well as  a  healthier  
financial sector through improved regulation and supervision; (c) a more effective and efficient public sector by 
improving public finances, containing  wage bill pressures and initiating public administration reforms; (d) a 
better targeted and more affordable system of social assistance that protects the poor.
 
1
Poverty was estimated at 28.8 percent in 2005/06.  
2
Delivered by Honorable Stephenson King, Prime Minister & Minister for Finance on April 24, 2009. A statement of 
objectives is also found in European Commission St Lucia Country Strategy Paper and National Indicative Programme for 
the period 2008-2013 (10
th
 EDF).
 
Page  2
3. 
Preliminary description  
 
The proposed DPL supports policies and reforms that will assist the Government of St. Lucia in dealing with the 
emerging short term economic challenges and further advancing the country’s longer term development agenda. 
More specifically, the goal of the program is to help the country manage the impact of the global crisis, while 
accelerating the structural transformation of the economy to improve public service delivery and social assistance, 
enhance the country’s competitive position and better manage the inherent vulnerability of a small and open 
economy. The proposed DPL is organized around four pillars, consistent with the Government’s Program. 
Consequently, the program supports core measures to help (a) maintain an enabling macroeconomic framework; 
(b) improve the business environment and financial sector; (c) improve public sector governance and economic 
management; and (d) strengthen social safety nets.  
T
he government’s current program aims at promoting sustained high economic growth, laying the ground for 
private sector development, improving fiscal and debt sustainability, reducing vulnerabilities, alleviating poverty 
and advancing the nation’s social development agenda. The reform policies supported under this DPL are 
selective critical policy actions that contribute to the achievement of longer term development objectives. S
upport 
to 
Government’s fiscal and external financing needs is critical for maintaining macroeconomic stability in 
the face of the global economic crisis and the focus on implementing the Government’s program—which 
will better position St. Lucia for a quicker recovery. Better regulation of the banking and insurance sectors 
supports mitigation of any contagion risks from the ongoing global crisis. Improvements in governance and 
public sector service delivery contribute to reinforcing fiscal and debt sustainability through efficient use of 
resources while, at the same time, lay the ground for enhanced competitiveness and growth through 
increased effectiveness of public services. Improvements in the business environment contribute to 
promoting domestic and foreign investment. Increased short term public assistance contributes to mitigating 
the impact of the crisis on the poor and to preventing a potential rise in poverty as a significant portion of the 
population in St. Lucia could fall into poverty in the case of a negative external shock. Increased efficiency 
and effectiveness of the social safety nets contribute to better targeting of social assistance programs and 
more efficient use of limited public resources.
 
4. 
Environment Aspects  
 
Specific actions supported by this DPL are not likely to have effects on the environment, forests, or other natural 
resources.   
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: 
 
($m.) 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
12 [tbc] 
 Total 
12
[tbc] 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Zafer Mustafaoglu 
Title: Senior Economist 
World Bank 
Latina American and Caribbean Region 
PREM, Economic Policy Sector 
1818 H Street NW 
Room I 4-011, Mailstop I 4-405 
Washington, D.C. 2044 
Phone: (202) 458-5431 
Fax: (202) 522 2119 
Page  3
Email: 
zmustafaoglu@worldbank.org
