Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6673-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
May 19, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by mcipients only in the performance of
their official duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Brazilian Cruzados (CZ$)'/
US$ - CZ$14.2
CZ$ - US$0.704
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric system
Abbreviations
BADESP           Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sao Paulo
BNDES            National Development Bank
BOD              Nontoxic Organic Pollutants
CETESB           Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental
CONAMA           National Environmental Council
COSIPA           Companhia Siderurgica Paulista
FR               Federative Republic of Brazil
GSPA             Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area
ICB              Internattonal Competitive Bidding
LBC              Central Bank Notes
MDU              Ministry of Urban Development and the Environment
ORTN             Obligations of the National Treasury
PCR              Project Completion Report
PETROBRAS        Petroleos do Brasil
PM               Particulate Matter
POC              Program of Joint Operations with Financial Agents
PROCOP           Special Project Account
SABESP           Companhia de Saneamento Basico de Estado de Sao Paulo
SEMA             Special Secretariat of the Environment
SEPA             State Environmental Protection Agency
SISNAMA          National Environmental Policy and System
SMI              Small and Medium Industry
SOX              Sulfur Dioxide
SPS              State of Sao Paulo
TA               Technical Assistance
1/ Valued at time of appraisal, November 1986.



FOR OFFICL4L UK ONLY
BAZI
SEMOD          A  POUIO  CONTROL PrOJECI
STA8l APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CHAPTER I  Loan and Project SuImary.................................. 1
CHAPTER II Industrial Pollution in Brazil............................ 3
Ao The Problem3........... O  0   *.**.* 3
Other Environmental 4........................ * .............. 4
B. Legislative Paeok..........                                         4
Federal Legis4ttion ........................  .   *                 4
Sao Paulo State Legislation5........................ . .           5
Other State Legislation        .................     ............. 5
Ce Sector Issues.................................... 5
Weak State Agencies .............                                   6
Lack of Incentives.6...........  ................................. 6
D. Experience with Past Lending (Loan 1822-BR)....................... 7
iccomipllshments ........................................... ..., 7
Lessons Learned and Proposed Project.............................. 8
CHAPTER III The Project..........................................      9
B. Project Objectives and Relation to Sector .........................  9
C. Project De      or                 i     p    t    i     o    n   9
D. Project Costs and Financing Paan                                    9
E* Onlending hrrangements.......................  10
F. Subproject Eligibility Criteria and Onlending Rates ..*.*.*.....   11
G. Implementing Agencies and Administrative Arrangements ..... ....  11
CETESB.............................. .......... .. ................. 12
SEMA ....................................................*.**....*** 13
H. Prior Approval Limits                       ..................... W  13
I.                                                                   rcrmn ........... *.**** 13
J* Disbursements............                      ...........         14
K. Accounting and Auditing ........................                   15
L. Benefits and Risks ...... *....................  . . 15
CHAPTER IV Agreements and Recommendation ............................. 15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornce
of their official dutiLa Its contents may not othewis be dbclsed without World Bank auftcimoD



- li -
List of Annexes
ANNEX 1. *uCESB - Institut'onal Description
Attachment I - CETESB Organilational Chart
Attachment II - PROCOP Organixational Chart
ANNEX 2. Characteristics of State Environmental Protection Agencies
ANNEX 3. SEMA - Organization Chart
ANNEX 4. BADESP - Institutional Description
Atteachent I  - Sources of Fundlng - BADESP
II - Historical Balance Sheet
III  Historical Income Statemeut
IV - PROCOP Financial Statement
ANNEX 5. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX 6.  Measure_ents of Environmental Quality
Table I  - GSPA Air Quality 1976-85
Table II - Cubastao Air Quality 1984-86
Table III - Estiate of Pollution Loads and Deterioration of
Water Ways in the GSPA, 1975-2000
Table IV - Water Quality Data for Rio Cubatao Basin
ANNEX 7.* Revised Masterplan for Swage Collection and Treatment in the
GSPA
ANeX 8.  Draft Plan for Development of SEMA Recoemendations on National
Iucentives for Investmet to Control Industrial Pollution in
Br&ai
ANNEX 9. Tomes of Reference for Diagnostic Study on Status of Industrial
Pollution and Environmental Monitoring in Selected States
ANNEX 10. Terms of Reference for Assessment of Brasllae  Training Resources
for Pollution Control.
ANNEX 11.  Project Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 12. Project Performance Indicators
ANNEX 13. Project Cost and Pinancing Plan
ANNEX 14. Selected Documents and Data Available In the Project File
MM: 1. General Map of Brazil (IBRD-15685R)
2. Map of Sao Paulo State and Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area
(IBRD 20414)
3. Map of Cubatao - Santos Area (IBRD 20388)



U"Dz
5U0=iD IDUSUIAL .OLUUTION COn10L. noascr
STAFF APPRAISAL REVOl
CHAPTER I
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrower:                  Federative Republic of Brazil
Intermediaries:            Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico e Social (BNDES)
and for Part A, Banco do Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sao Paulo
(BADESP)
Beneficiaries:             For Part A -  Private and public industrial enterprises in the
State of Sao Paulo and its environmental protection agency
(CETESB)
For Part B - Federal environmental agency (SEMA) and other
State environmental protection agencies (SEPAs).
Amount:                    US$50 million equivalent
Terms:                     Interest at Bank's standard variable rate, plus standard
commitment fee. Maturity 15 years, including three years
grace.
Relending Terms:           Funds for Part A of the project will be onlent by BNDES to SPS
on the same terms as the Bank loan. Subloans by SPS to indus-
trial firms eligible for the credit incentive under Part A
would bear a real rate of interest of not less then 6X per
annum. Other subloans under Part A would bear a real rate of
Interest of not less than 9.5X per annum. The term of subloans
would be up to ten years with a grace period of up to three
years.
Project Description:        Part A of the project is designed to improve public health and
the environment by financing subprojects to reduce industrial
pollution within the state of Sao Paulo and by strengthening
CETESB with technical assistance (TA). About 65X of invest-
ments are expected to occur in Cubatao, the worst source of
pollution in the country. Part B of the project would seek to
strengthen SEMA and the SEPAs through a TA program. SEMA would
also develop national incentives for pollution control invest-
ments. The risk of insufficient demand from enterprises for
financing is small, as BADESP has a pipeline of subDrojecte for
financing equal to about 70X of the loan. Both BADESP and
CETESE have developed a project team with proven capabilities
to implement Part A of the project. The capabilities of SEMA
and the SEPAs to implemert Part B of the project are limited,
so that SEMA would hire the services of an outside agency such
as CETESB to help implement most of this program.



-2-
-       JJS$ mlllio*-- -
Estimated Costs:                             Local     Foreign      Total      K
Part A
Poll-ution control subprojects            62.4       26.4        88.8      89
Technical assistance                       2.6        2.6         5.2       5
Subtotal                                  65.0       29.0        94.0      94
Part B
Technical Assistance to SEM and
SEPAs other than CETESB                  3.0         3.0         6.0        6
Total Estimated Costs                     68.0       32.0       100.0      100
Financing Plan:
Part A
Proposed IBRD loan                        18.0       29.0        47.0      47
Enterprises                               44.4        -          44.4      44
Sao Pawulo State                           2.6        -           2.6       3
Subtotal                                 6. 5U.0                 94.0      w
Part B
Proposed IBhD Loan                         -          3.0         3.0       3
Federal Government                         3.0        -           3.0       3
Subtotal                                   3.0        3.0         6.0       6
Total Financing Plan                      68.0       32.0       100.0     100
3 -- ---Bank FY - US$ millio------
Estimated Disbursements:                     88     89     90      91     92     93      94
Annual                              1.5    8.5   11.5   11.5    8.5    5.5    3.0
Cumulative                          1.5   10.0   21.5   33.0   41.5   47.0   50.0
Rate of Returs: Project benefits cannot be meanlgfully quantified.



-3-
CHAPTER II
Industrial Pollution in Brazil
A. The Problem
2.01      During the last thirty years Brazil has transformed itself from a
largely agricultural export economy into an integrated Industrial society. From
1950-1970 industrial growth averaged about 8X annually. Even higher rates of
growth were achieved in the years that followed,  such that manufacturing repre-
sented 29% of GDP in 1980. This robust growth ended with a severe recession
during 1981-83 which caused industrial production to drop by 16X over this
period. The growth trend for industry resumed in 1984-86, but its share of GDP
has remained about the same since 1980. Brazil's industrial production is con-
centrated in the southeast of the country with almost 602 of it located in the
State of Sao Paulo (SPS). There are also a few heavy concentrations of industry
in the northeast and In Minas Gerais. Until the 1970s most of this growth took
place with little concern for space planning, zoning, or protection of the envi-
ronment.
2.02      The largest concentration of industry in SPS is located in the Greater
Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPA) and in the heavy Industrial complex in the
Cubatao Valley near the port of Santos. Measurements of air quality for major
pollutants in the GSPA, 1976-85, are provided in Annex 6, Table 1. While concen-
trations of sulfur dioxide (SOX) and carbon monoxide have declined significantly
due to the state's pollution control programs and the use of alcohol in fuel for
vehicles, SPS has not succeeded in reducing concentrations of particulate matter
(PM), which averaged (geometric mean) 130 micro grams/i3, during 1983-85. The
maximum daily concentration was more than triple the mean during this period, and
the state's daily air quality standard for this pollutant was exceeded on average
85 times per year. Air quality within the Cubatao-Vila Parisi air basin during
1984-86 was measured above legal standards more than 752 of the time for parti-
cles and ozone (Annex 6, Table II). Standards for fluorides, ammonia and hydro-
carbons were also exceeded on a regular basis and they create serious public
health problems and deforestation in the basin. SPS has developed a pollution
control program with the industries responsible, and dramatic improvements in air
quality for Cubatao are expected by the end of 1987.
2.03      Sewage collection and treatment in the GSPA has not kept pace with the
growth of population and industrial production. A summary table for the period
1975-85 (Annex 6, Table III) shows estimated water pollution loads for the GSPA.
Only about half of its 14.5 million population is served by the sewerage network,
and only 19% of the estimated total domestic sewage receives treatment, most of
it only primary. As a result it is estimated that the GSPA's waterways receive
about 718 tons per day of nontoxic organic pollutants (DOD). About 53% of this
load originates from domestic sources, 292 from industrial and 182 from urban
run-off. Most important rivers have BOD concentrations amounting to about 252 of
that for raw sewage or about fifteen times higher than the maximum considered
acceptable for class 2 waters (recreational purposes). As explained in more
detail in Annex 7, SPS had to slow down implementation of a master plan solution
for its sewage problem during the last five years due to local funding shortages
and the failure of independent municipalities to participate in the program
These municipalities have recently been made eligible for financing from the



- 4 -
Federative Republic (PR); moreover, a revised master plan, which incorporates the
first phase of the previous plan and redesigns the rest, has been approved by the
State's water and sewerage company, SABESP, and presented to the newly elected
Government of SPS for approval. The revised SABESP plan would be carried out in
stages over a 20-year period at an estimated overall cost of $1 billion. The
objective is to increase sewerage connections from the current 48% of SPS
population to 64% by 1991 and 88X by 2005.
2.04      Water quality data for the Cubatao basin during the period July 1984-
July 1986 are shown In Annex 6, Table IV. A recent inventory of water pollution
sources shows that Industry is primarily responsible.   The variations in water
quality are probably due to industrial dumping of chemical wastes, which have
destroyed all aquatic life in the water basin below industrial sources. The so-
lution to this problem will require the control of 44 industrial sources and the
treatment of domestic sewage from 70,000 inhabitants. A program to do this with
the cooperation of the industries responsible is scheduled for completion by the
end of 1988.
2.05      Other states such as Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Bahia and Minas
Gerais have similar though generally less severe Industrial pollution problems.
They have been slower than SPS in establishing effective programs to reduce
industrial pollution in a comprehensive manner, choosing to concentrate their
efforts on reacting to public nuisance complaints. Diagnostic studies to define
the extent of industrial pollution in these states and to propose strategles for
dealing with them are needed as a first step. At the same time, the state envi-
ronmental protection agencies (SEPAs) should develop the capacity to implement
these strategies.
2.06      Other Environmental Issues.  The Government has strengthened its
efforts to address environmental issues associated with non-industrial sources.
These problems involve depletion of renewable resources, soil erosion, resettle-
ment issues associated with power sector investments and pollution due to use of
agro-chemicals. While the environmental policy framework at the federal level is
considered adequate, the Government recognizes that its institutional capacity to
implement existing policy must be strengthened. Under the Power Sector Loan
(Loan 2720-BR, signed July 15, 1986) the Bank is assisting the Government to deal
with the environmental and social Issues associated with its investments in the
power sector. The Bank is also working with the Government to prepare projects
which would support reforestation efforts, build up the capacities of state and
federal environmental agencies, develop and maintain conservation units (e.g.
ecological stations, biological reserves, etc.), prevent soil erosion and reduce
pollution due to agro-chemicals, as well as plan and zone for the development of
ecologically fragile areas such as the Amazon, Pantanal and Serra do Mar.
B. Legislative Framework
2.07      Federal legislation.  Decree 73,030 of October 30, 1973 created the
Special Secretariat of the Environment (SEMA) within the Ministry of the Inte-
rior, in order to: (i) rationalize the use of Brazil'a natural resources and en-
vironment; (ii) develop pollution control norms and standards; (iii) coordinate
federal pollution control activities; and (iv) assist state pollution control
agencies. To further strengthen the administration and Integration of environ-
mental protection efforts at federal, state and local levels, Federal Law 6938 of



-5-
August 31, 1981 formulated a National Environmental Policy and System (SISNAMA).
Representatives of all goveroment agencles and public interest groups were Inclu-
ded in a National Environmental Council (CONAMA), chaired by the Minister of
Urban Development and the Environment (1DU), which advises the President of the
Republic on matters of policy. The role of BEM was redefined to make It
executive secretary of CONAMA and the central organ of the system. As such It
also coordinates the efforts of CONAMA member agencies and groups, supplementing
their efforts as necessary to achieve CONAMA objectives. In 1986, BEMA was moved
from within the Ministry of the Interior to MDU.
2.08      In general the federal legal framework Is designed to provide overall
guidance and to set minimum compliance standt.rds for pollutors. The legislation
explicitly recognizes the powers of the states to set tighter pollution control
standards and to issue supplemental legislation. Most of the supervisory and en-
forcement functions including monltoring, llcensing, enforcement and flnes
against violators are left to state action. Yet in cases where a state cannot
assume these responsibilities, 8EMA can. Other federal authorities may overrule
a state decision to close, on pollution grounds, those industries deemed to be of
great importance for the development or national security of the country. This
limitation on state action is not expected to interfere with BPS's enforcement
program as it can create enough presswre by severely fining pollutors. Also the
Bank has the right to suspend commitments under the proposed loan, if the lack Qf
enforcement of pollution controi legislation adversely affects project
implementation.
2.11      Sao Paulo State Legislation.  The development of laws to protect the
environment in SPS more or less paralleled their development at the federal
level. In 1975 the state government merged several state agencies concerned with
public health and sanitation into CETESB (Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento
Ambiental). Water bodies and air basins were appropriately classified according
to their potential use. Adequate emission and effluent standards were esta-
blished by type of industry. CETESB was given the responsibility for operating a
registration and licensing system for all productlve enterprises. It was also
given authority to monitor and flne violators of SPS laws. The national and SPS
legal framework presently provides SEMA and CETESB with sufficient enforcement
powers for them to control pollutors.
2.12      Other State legislation.  In addition to SPS, thirteen other states
have specific legislation to protect the environment and control pollution. This
group includes those states with the largest sources of Industrial pollution
(para. 2.05). The nine states which do not have specific legislation also have
the fewest industrial pollution problems. SEMA is studying present state legis-
lation and plans to recommend changes which would strengthen it as appropriate.
C. Sector Issues
2.13      SEMA. Until recently SEMA gave highest priority to Its public rela-
tions activities in order to increase awareness of environmental Issues. It was
constrained by a lack of more specific objectives and a large enough budget to
achieve them. Although its role as executive secretariat for CONAMA was defined
in 1981, its manageaent priorities were not significantly changed until 1985-86.
SEMA is now pursuing a more activist approach to strengthen SEPAs and to coordi-
nate their act!ons.



- 6 -
2.14      SDMA has 145 professionals with backgrounds in relevant science and
social disclplines. A diagram of SEMA's organization is provided In Annex 3.
Selective strengthening of the organization is needed to guide the conduct of
training programs. In accordance with Brazil's federal system, SEPAs have the
primary responsibility for undertaking laboratory analysis and pollution
monitoring. As only modest increases in SEMA's staff are expected over the next
few years, SEMA's management intends to further Improve staff efficiency by: (i)
Improved personnel management and administration; (ii) training staff; and (lit)
increased use of outside consultants for special tasks. The proposed technical
assistance component of the project would directly support these three actions.
2.15      Weak State Agencies.  In practice only a few states have SEPAs with the
capability to monitor pollution sources, design control strategies and enforce
the law through fines and penalties. These tasks require a staff of highly
trained and motivated professionals, backed up by technically sophisticated labo-
ratory and monitoring equipment. SPS has by far the largest pollution problems
and has built up CETBSB to a staff of 2,100 with an annual operating budget of
US$33 million (Annex 1). As shown in Annex 2, SEPAs in the states of Rio de
Janeiro and Parana have also developed large organizations. States with
relatively few pollution sources cannot justify large budget expenditures for
such purposes. Nevertheless, severe pollution problems of a localized nature
exist in many states which presently lack the capability to deal with them.
2.16      SENA Is working to strengthen the capabilities of SEPAs.  To this end,
during 1986 the PR provided SEPAs with grants (total of US$4 million equivalent)
for the first time. These funds made up about 3X of the budgets of the largest
SEPAs, but in some cases doubled the funds available to the smallest ones. As
shown in Annex 2, SEMA has classified each SEPA into one of four categories for
potcmtial development. Category one (highest) includes SPS and Rio de Janeiro
which are expected to become fully capable in all types of pollution control.
Category two Includes nine SEPAs which have expressed a desire to develop their
general capabilities, with a specialization in the control of certain types of
industrial pollution present in their state. Category three includes five states
which need to develop a minimum capability using only local training resources.
The seven SEPAs in category four (lowest) would not need to develop a control
capa4bility, as they have the least industrial pollution problems. Using
consultants, SEBA would (i) define the extent of local pollution problems by
state; (ii) recommend to SEPAs enforcement strategies for dealing with them;
(iii) judge current operational capability of SEPAs in categories 1-3; (iv)
assess the availability of local training resources; and (v) design technical
assistance programs which will help the SEPAs achieve the objectives of their
category over a realistic period. It was agreed that SEMA would begin such
studies ((i)-(v) above) for at least 12 states by December 1, 1987 and complete
them by December 1, 1989.
2.17      Lack of Incentives.  So far the federal government has not created any
specific fiscal incentives, as are provided in many other countries, to encourage
Industries to undertake Pollution control Investments. Incentives can be justi-
fied in these cases because the investments seldom produce any income. While the
cost may eventually be passed on to consumers, it initially has a negative impact
on the financial situation of the investing companies and leads to strong resis-
tance by polluting industries. Since the society at large is the beneficiary of
pollution control actions, governments often choose to ameliorate some of the



cost of pollution control as an Incentive to abide by environmental lawsa and
regulations.
2.18      Lack of federal Incentives has ied SPS to create an incentive at the
state level. It provides financing to industries for pollution control at subsi-
dized interest rates under the Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project,
Loan 1822-BR, signed April 14, 1980 (hereafter called the First Project). The
Bank accepted minimum subproject lending rates, of 22 plus 65X of monetary cor-
rection for small and modium Industry (SMI) and 22 plus full monetary correction
for large ones. In fact alAost no funds were lent to SNI as the state's enforce-
ment strategy concentrated on the largest pollutors, and the actual rate charged
to the latter was 32 in real terms. The subsldy element arose from the fact that
the cost of official crodit for Industrial investment from the Natlonal Develop-
ment Bank (BNDBS) was 102 In real terms and market rates were higher still,
2.19      Although SENA is empowered under Law No. 6938 to propose guidelines for
incentives at the national ar.d state levels, it has not yet done so. Alterna-
tives to interest rate subsidies, such as grant., have the advantage of being
more transparent, and they need not be linked to borrowing. The Bank has agreed
with SEMA on terms of reference and a schedule (Annex 8) for designing appro-
priate alternatives for national-level Incentives for pollution control Invest-
ments. The Government has agreed that (1) based upon recommendations of consult-
ants financed under the proposed loan and after revlew by the Bank, SEMA would
propose incentives for pollution control to CONAMA by September 30, 1988 and (ii)
CONANA would make a decision on these recommendations by December 31, 1988. The
decision would either be in the form of the issuan^e of a Federal regulation ar a
recommendation to the Federal executive to propose legislation. Once a regula-
tion or legislation is issued, the Sao Paulo interest rate incentive described in
paras. 3.07 and 3.08 below, would be superseded.
D. Experience with Past Lending (Loan 1822-BR)
2.20      The loan for the First Project became effective in January 1981.
During its first four years of implementation little demand for financing from
industrial enterprises materialized. This was due to a combination of factors
including: (i) a severe economic recession which reduced the creditworthiness of
potential borrowers; (ii) potential borrowers' perceptions that loan processing
requirements were onerous and collateral requirements were too rigorous; (ii.)
delays in municipal sewer construction. In August 1984, changes were made to
streamline subloan review procedures and make collateral requirements more
flexible; at the same time the loan was reduced from US$58 mi'lion equivalent to
US$34 million. The introduction of the agreed changes combined with an
improvement in the local economy and stepped up enforcement efforts by SPS have
yielded dramatlc results. The loan was committed by June 30, 1986 and was fully
disbursed by December 31, 1986. A Project Completion Report (PCR) is planned for
completion in June 1987.
2.21      Accomplishments.  In total the Bank financed 119 pollution  control
subprojects implemented by 57 companies. About 632 of the Bank's financing was
used for air pollution control projects with the remainder used for water. Due
to a lack of demand for project funds during the first four years of project
implementation, only 102 of the pollution control projects undertaken by indus-
tries within the original project area (GSPA) was financed by the Bank. Never-



theless5 CETESB was able to achieve the project's objective of reducing particu-
late matter emissions frou Industrial sources In the GSPA by 651 during 1980-86.
Sulphur dioxide emissions from industrial sources, which were added as an addi-
tional objective during project implementation, were reduced by the 60X planned.
About 82 of this reductlon was financed by the project. The reductions In parti-
culate matter emissions, however, have yielded little measurable improvement in
overall particulate matter air quality in the GSPA due to the greater Influence
of non-industrial sources such as dust from roads and open areas. An applied
research project to redefine CETESB's emission control strategy for improving
particulate matter air quality in the GSPA Is included in the Second Project. On
the other hand sulphur dloxide air quality has dramatically improved as industry
was the predoinant source.
2.22      CETESB actions to control industrial water pollutors in GSPA have
yielded a 101 average reduction in organic load flowing into highest priority
water bodies (classes 1-2). CETESB estimates that during 1980-85 industry's dal-
ly water pollution load (BOD) for all classes of rivers in the GSPA increased by
51, but industry's share of the total load has dropped from 33% in 1980 to 29%,
since municipal sources have grown faster.
2.23      Bank financlng played an especially important role In achieving project
objectives in the Cubatao Valley, as the industries there participated In a joint
effort with the SPS government which included financing under the First Project
as an important part of its contribution. About 651 of the Bank loan was used
for subprojects in Cubatao and these investments accounted for 70% of the
reductions in pollution achieved. Particulate matter emissions were reduced by
801 and sulphur dioxide by 402 between 1984-86. As a result of these actions the
number of critical air pollution episodes (alerts or emergencies) during the
worst winter months dropped from an average of six per year to zero.
2.24      Lessons Learned and Proposed Project.  The Second Project has been de-
signed to benefit from the lessons learned from the first one. The latter had
complex and time-consuming subproject review procedures to safeguard against
financing, at below market rates, investments not directly associated with
controlling pollution. The PCR review concluded that these requirements were
unnecessary, given: (i) the economic incentives that enterprises had to adopt
least cost solutions; (ii) the thorough subproject supervision procedures; and
(iii) the relatively small credit incentive involved. Under the Second Project,
therefore, the more onerous loan processing procedures required for investments
involving process change or moving to a new location would be dropped; at the
same time the incentive Interest rate (see para. 3.07) would be made available
only for investments involving direct treatment. On one occasion, the project
financed a private industrial sewage treatment plant which was a lower private
cost alternative to the treatment charges proposed by SPS's sewage treatment
company, SABESP, but which may not have been the lowest social cost solution.
The draft PCR recommends that coordination between CETESB and SABESP should be
improved, to provide for timely exchange of information on proposed water
pollution subprojects to assure that SABESP has ample opportunity to arrive at an
appropriate solution with CETESB and the enterprise concerned. Amendment of the
Cooperative Agreement between these institutions to do this is a condition of
disbursement (para. 3.12) for Part A of the Second Project. The draft PCR also
recommends that specific credit lines for pollution control should not be
presented to the Bank's Executive Directors without a substantial plpeline of



9._
subprojects to assure their timely disbursement. The Second Project meets this
criterion.
CHAPTER III
The Project
A. Origin
3.01      In June 1986, the Goverment requested a follow-on loan to the First
Project to meet unfilled demand In Sao Paulo. Subsequently the Government re-
quested Bank financing for an additlonal component to provlde technical assist-
ance to strengthen SEMA and SEPAs other than CITESB as the first step In prepa-
ring a natlonal industrial pollution control project for future financing. The
project was appralsed in October 1986. Negotiations took place on April 27 -
May 5, 1987 and the Brazilian delegatlon was led by Sra. Betty Antunes, Advisor
in the Ministry of Finance.
D. ProJect ObJectives and Relation to Sector
3.02      The proposed project has two primary objectives.  As in the First Pro-
ject, it would seek to Improve public health by further reducing industrial air,
water and solid waste pollution within the SP8. Lower income groups which tend
to live In areas closest to the worst sources of pollution would probably benefit
the most.  Secondly, the project would seek to strengthen 81HA and the SEPAs in-
cluding CETISB, by developlng these agencies' operatlonal and technical capabi-
lities to design and implement Integrated long-term Industrial pollution control
strategies and programs within their jurisdictions. An additional objective
would be to have SENA and CONAMA develop appropriate incentives for pollution
control Investments.
C. Project Descrlption
3.03      Part A would lnclude:  (i) subprojects by industrial enterprises to
reduce all types of industrial pollution in Sao Paulo and (ii) institutional
strengthening of CITESB, the SIPA of Sao Paulo State. The latter would consist
of: (a) the purchase of specialized monitoring and laboratory analysis equip-
ment; (b) applied research and studies in fields of biological and toxic treat-
ment, hazardous risk assessment and cost-benefit analysis; and (c) training of
staff from industry and CITESB in various pollution control subjects. Part B of
the project would include institutional strengthening for S8MA and the SEPAs
other than CETESB. It would include (a) the purchase of equipment for laborato-
ries and monitoring programs; (b) diagnostic studies to deteemine the nature and
extent of Industrial pollution problems in states other than Sao Paulo, with re-
commendations for control strategies; (c) an assessmnt of local training re-
sources; and (d) training programs to develop the capabilities of SEMA and SBPA's
other than CETESB In pollution control. Part B would also Include assistance to
SIMA for development of appropriate Incentivea for investments In pollution
control.
D. Project Costs and Financing Plan
3.04      As shown In the table in Annex 12, the estimated total project cost is
US$100.0 million equivalent* Pollution control sub-projects under Part A would



- 10 -
amount to US$88.8 million equivalent, and technical assistance (TA) for Parts A
and B would amount to US$11.2 million equivalent. With respect to pollution con-
trol sub-projects, SPS already has a pipeline of such projects from 20 companies
totaling US$70 million. About half of this latter amount would be invested by
COSIPA, the government steel company, to largely complete the control of air and
water pollution from Its original steel making facilities in Cubatao1/. An
additional US$10 million would be used by four petrochemical companies, including
Petroleos do Brasil (PETROBRAS), located in the same area. The remaining
companies which have requested financing are dispersed around the SPS including
the GSPA. For the pollution control subproject component under Part A, the Bank
would finance 50% (US$44.4 million) representing 100% (US$26.4 million equiva-
lent) of foreign costs and 29% (US$18.0 million equivalent) of local costs. This
level of local financing is consistent with the Bank's normal practice for pro-
jects in Brazil which benefit low income groups and improve public health. The
balance of subproject costs under Part A would be financed by the industrial
sub-borrowers. For TA to CETESB Under Part A, the Bank would finance up to the
US$2.6 million equivalent of foreign costs, with the balance provided by SPS.
For TA to SEMA under Part B, the Bank would finance up to US$3.0 million equiva-
lent for 100% of foreign costs or 50% of overall costs, with the balance to be
provided by the Government.
E. Onlending Arrangements
3.05      The proposed loan would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil
for a fixed 15-year amortization period, including 3 years of grace, and it would
carry the Bank's standard variable interest rate. BNDES would act as financial
agent on behalf of the Federal Government. Funds for Part A of the project would
be onlent to SPS on the same terms as the Bank loan, with SPS taking the full
foreign exchange risk. SPS would also pay to BNDES an administration fee of 0.5%
p.a. on the outstanding loan balance.
3.06      At the state level BADESP, the state development bank, would be finan-
cial agent for SPS. It would relend the credit portion to eligible enterprises,
assuming 25% of the credit risk. The technical assistance portion of Part A
would be passed on by SPS as a grant to CETESB. CETESB and BADESP would receive
a quarterly fee equivalent to 0.25% and 0.625%, respectively, paid from PROCOP's
resources and calculated on PROCOP's outstanding subloan portfolio at the end of
each quarter. The small size of CETESB's fee reflects separate funding which the
institution already receives from industry for analyzing pollution control
investments under SPS pollution control legislation. BADESP's fee has been
increased by 0.125% per quarter from the first project to compensate it for
taking 25% of the credit risk on new subloans. Signing of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and SPS is a condition of disbursement for Part
A of the project. Funds for Part B of the project would be provided by the
Government to SE14A for its own institutional strengthening and for SEPAs other
than CETESB.
1/ A newer plant previously financed by the Bank under Loan 1152-BR, signed
in 1976, already has pollution control equipment in operation.



- 11 -
F. SubproJect Eligibility Criteria and Onlending Rates
3.07      Eligible sub-borrowers would be Brazilian owned or controlled enterpri-
ses without limitation on size. It has been agreed that all subprojects would be
designed to achieve reductions in pollution consistent with a CETESB pollution
control solution acceptable to the Bank. So far the Bank has approved -
comprehensive enforcement strategies for water pollution, sulfur dioxide and
particulate matter in the GSPA and Cubatao regions of SPS, all of which are
included in the Project File. Subprojects for controlling sources of particulate
matter or SOX established prior to April 14, 1980, the beginning of the SPS
enforcement program for these pollutants, and subprojects for controlling other
sources of pollutants established before December 31, 1986, would be eligible for
the interest rate incentive mentioned in para. 3.08 below, provided they involve
the direct treatment of pollution. This solution is most likely to have a cost
to the firm with few if any corresponding financial benefits. Other forms of
pollution control involving process changes or moving a plant can be very
effective but often include unrelated investments which are hard to isolate.
These forms of control can also be profitable for the firms undertaking them.
Accordingly, pollution control investments which are not classified by CETESB as
direct treatment would still be eligible for Bank financing, but would not
receive the interest rate incentive. Since SPS legislation requires all new
industrial investments to comply with existing pollution control standards,
subprojects (if any) to control sources established after the above dates, would
not be entitled to the interest rate incentive.
3.08      At the SPS level loan funds would be channelled to ultimate beneficia-
ries through the same special project account (PROCOP) used under the First Pro-
ject. This revolving account is located in and managed by BADESP. Sub-borrowers
would have up to ten years to repay with a grace period of up to three years.
Enterprises not qualifying for the interest rate incentive would pay interest on
Bank-financed subloans for pollution control investments of no lower than 9.5Z
which is the BNDES long-term rate for large borrowers.  Enterprises qualifying
for the incentive would pay interest at a rate no less than 6X. 2'  The principal
of subloans would be adjusted monthly for inflation in accordance uith changes in
the national treasury bond index (OTN). The Government has announced that
effective July 1, 1987 this index will be equal to the cumulative interest rate
paid on Central Bank floating rate notes (LBCs). Although this arrangement does
not create a direct linkage of the monetary correction mechanism to an inflation
index, the Central Bank is expected to keep the interest rate on LBCs at least
equal to the inflation rate in order to maintain public demand for this important
source of its funding. This approach, while not perfect, should provide reason-
able assurance that interest rates will remain positive in real terms. It has
been agreed that, if the OTN index does not keep up with the rate of inflation as
published by the Getulio Vargas Foundation (a private educational and research
institute), the Bank would have the option to stop further commitments.
G. Implementing Agencies and Administrative Arrangements
3.09      BADESP.  As in the First Project, BADESP would act as financial agent
and trustee of PROCOP. BADESP would be primarily responsible for the financial
management of PROCOP's assets and loan portfolio. BADESP would (i) carry out the
2 This incentive could be superceded by the national-level incentives to
be proposed by CONAMA (para 2.18).



- 12 -
credit and financial analysis of sub-borrowers; (li) approve pollution control
subloans; (ill) sign subloan contracts and make disbursements for subloans and
TA; (iv) supervlse and control the execution of approved subprojects and TA
programs; (v) prepare PROCOP's budget annually; and (vi) keep accounting records
of PROCOP's resources,
3.10      A description and analysis of BADESP and PROCOP is provided In Annex
4. BADESP, whlch had total assets of US$434 milllon at the end of 1983 Is a
subsidiary of SPS's bank holdlg company, BANESPA. Although the quallty of
BADESP's loan portfolio has Improved substantlally over the last seven years, it
has been unable to show a net profit after adjustments for inflation during this
period due primarily to narrow margins on offleal credit lines. During 1980-85
its gross spread deteriorated from 7.4% to -3.9% and Its debt rose from 6 to 13
times equlty. Despite these problems BADESP was able to carry out Its
responsibilities under the First Project (para. 3.08) In a fully satisfactory
manner. As of June 30, 1986, PROCOP's loan portfolio was healthy with no arrears
reported beyond ninety days and only one small loan write-off. Nevertheless, in
order to help insure a thorough assessment of the creditworthiness of
sub-borrowers, it has been agreed that BADESP would share at least 25% of the
credit risk on subprojects. This would mean that BADESP would compensate the
PROCOP account for 252 of any losses incurred on new loans. Payments by BADESP
for this purpose would be made nine months after write-off in order to give
BADESP sufficient time to pursue recovery through judicial process. Though the
PROCOP account would benefit from BADESP making up its share of loan losses, SPS
is not looking to this account for repayment of the Bank loan. BADESP's
financial condition would only become relevant for the project in the unlikely
event that its situation becomes so bad that the State would decide to close It
down or merge it into another institution. In such event, the Bank would have
the right to suspend disbursements (and eventually premature the loan) unless the
successor to BADESP is an institution acceptable to the Bank (such as possibly
the State commercial bank) and assumes all the rights and obligations of BADESP
in respect of the project.
3.11      CETESB.  Given the project's technical objectives and the fact that the
demand for PROCOP's financing would depend largely on the enforcement of the
pollution control legislation by CETESB, this Institution vwuld continue to play
the key role it carried out effectlvely under the First Project. A detailed
description of CETESB and its pollution control activities is provided in Annex
T. As PROCOP's technical agent, CETESB would be responsible for (1) designing
and implementing pollution control enforcement strategies; (ii) appraising and
approving the pollution control characteristics of subprojects; (111) implement-
ing training programs for its staff and industry; and (iv) preparing periodic
reports on the achievement of project objectives. In order to maintain its
capabilities, CBTZSB constantly trains Its staff in new technologies and proce-
dures and replaces worn out or obsolete monitoring and laboratory equipment. The
proposed project supports these efforts with financing for technical assistance.
This technical assistance program coneists of 14 subprojects which have been
reviewed and approved by the Bank and are included in the Project File.
3.12      Coordination under the First Project was secured through two inter-
agency cooperative agreements, between CETESB and BADESP and between CETESB and
SABESP, the SPS Water and Sewerage Company. These agreements, which are included



- 13 -
In the project file, spell out in detail for each agency its operational respon-
sibilities for the project Including: (1) Information to be provided to other
participating agencies; (ii) technical and financial appraisal of subprojects;
(Mi) technical assistance to sub-borrowers; and (iv) supervision of subpro-
jects. Both agreements would be continued for Part A of the Second Project. The
SABESP agreement was deslgned to assure that the pollution control solutions pro-
posed by enterprises were compatible with SABESP's master plan for sewage collec-
tion and treatment. The amendment of the CETISI agreement with SABESP (para.
2.24) to provide for timely exchange of information on proposed water pollution
subprojects to assure that cost effective control solutlons are adopted, as well
as PROCOP's Bylaws to reflect changes associated with the Second Project are a
condition of disbursement for Part A of the Project.
3.13      SEMA.  A description of SEMA is Included in para. 2.14 and Annex 3.  It
would have responsibility for implementing Part B of the project with the help of
qualified SEPAs or consultants which would provide assistance for institutional
strengthening and implementation support. The preparatory work for Part B was
carried out by SEMA with full participation of the Governsent's Environmental
Commission in the Secretariat of Planning. A general description of the
component, including objectives summarized In paras. 2.14 and 2.16 above, and
detailed budget assumptions, was reviewed and approved durlg appraisal and Is
Included in the Project File. Terms of reference for the diagnostic studies
(Annex 9) and an assessment of local training resources (Annex 10), which are the
first steps in SEMA's program, have been agreed with SEMA.
H. Prior Approval Ulmits
3.14      For Part A of the project prior Bank approval would be required for all
PROCOP subloans involving more than US$2.0 mllion equivalent In Bank financing.
This limit is expected to result in the Bank reviewing between one-fourth and
one-third of the subloans, corresponding to about half of the loan amount. The
final lists of equipment to be procured under the institutional strengthening
programs would require Bank approval after consultants make their
recommendations.
I* Procurement
3.15      The credit component of the project is expected to finance primarily
civil works, as borrowers can obtain financing from other sources with more
attractive terms for the purchase of domestically produced equipment. Due to the
capability of local civil works contractors, foreign contractors are only
expected to show interest in large contracts. It has been agreed that for
contracts involving machinery or equipment exceeding US$2 million, sub-borrowers
would use international shopping procedures including at least three bids, of
which at least two would be foreign. Otherwise the normal procedures used by the
investing enterprise would be followed and would ensure a reasonable degree of
competition. As financial agent of PROCOP, BADESP would satisfy itself that
goods and services procured for Individual subprojects are acquired at reasonable
cost. Since civil works contracts would not be procured under ICB, such
contracts which are large enough potentially to attract International bidders,
i.e. those over US$5 million, would be ineligible for Bank financlag. Due to the
Government's policy of reserving procurement for locally manufactured vehicles
and computer equipment, such locally purchased Items (expected to be an
Insignificant amount) would be Ineligible for Bank financing.



- 14 -
3.16      Under the institutional strengthening components of the project,
purchases by CETESB and SEZ  of imported laboratory and monitoring equipment are
expected to total about US$1.5 million. Because of their small size and
proprietary nature, such equipment would normally be procured by obtaining
competitive quotations from recognized international manufacturers. Contracts
for equipment purchased by CETESB or SEMA which are not of a proprietary nature
and exceed US$300,000 would be procured using ICB procedures. Below this limit
local government procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used.
SEMA does not presently have the capability to procure foreign equipment or
consulting services or to arrange foreign training. It has been agreed that, as
a condition of disbursement for Part B of the project, SENA would hire, or enter
into appropriate arrangements with, an outside agency acceptable to the Bank
(probably CETESB) under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to provide
these services. Consultant services financed under the institutional
strengthening components will be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.
J. Disbursements
3.17      Disbursements would primarily follow normal reimbursement procedures;
the Bank may be requested to pay directly for procurement under larger subpro-
jects or for the foreign costs of strengthening institutions.
Part A of the Project
(i) for pollution control subprojects, Bank funds would cover 50X of
subproject costs or 100% of foreign costs, not to exceed 100l of
subloans;
(ii)  for institutional strengthening, Bank funds would be disbursed for 100%
of foreign costs by reimbursement or direct payment to suppliers of
consulting services, studies, research, training material, and
laboratory and pollution monitoring equipment.
rt * ohoect
(i)  for institutional strengthening, Bank funds would be disbursed for
1002 of foreign costs or 502 of total costs.
3.18      Based upon the standard disbursement profile for IDF projects in the
LAC region, disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1994 (Annex 5). To
facilitate smooth project execution, a Cruzado Expenditure Special Account with
an initial deposit of US$5.0 million would be established in the Central Bank to
finance the Bank's share of local expenditures for Parts A and B of the Project.
A Foreign Expenditure Special Account with an initial deposit of US$0.3 million
would be established in a foreign commercial bank to finance the Bank's share of
foreign expenditures for Parts A and B of the Project. Withdrawal applications
for both Parts of the project would be submitted by BNDES. Withdrawal applica-
tions would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOB) for subloans
less than US$2.5 million financed under Part A. SOEs would also be used for all
contracts less than US$250,000 financed under Part B. Supporting documentation
for all disbursement requests would be maintained by BADESP, BNDES and SEHA and
made available for review upon request by the Bank. BNDES would be required to



- 15 -
submit to the Bank (periodic) statements of the transactions of the Special Ac-
counts. Because subprojects in Part A of the project must be reviewed by two
state agencies, and this may extend the time needed for subproject processing,
the Bank would reimburse PROCOP for expenditures Incurred no more than one year
prior to the date the Bank receives a subloan for review or authorixation to make
withdrawal. Expenditures by SEMA after March 31, 1987, for diagnostic studies
and an assessment of local training resources (para. 3.14) would be eligible for
retroactive financing up to US$200,000. Expenditures made after June 30, 1986
for pollution control subprojects already approved or authorized by the Bank
under Loan 1822-BR and for which no funds were available due to full commitment
of the loan account, would be eligible for retroactive financing not to exceed
US$4 million. The final date for submission of approval requests would be
September 30, 1990 and the Closing Date would be December 31, 1994.
R. Accountlng and Auditing
3.19      The accounts of BADESP, PROCOP and 30Es have been audited by BADESP's
independent auditors, Revisora Nacional under Loan 1822-BR. Their reports were
for the most part timely and always unqualified. These accounts and the Special
Accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. Audit reports for BADESP including PROCOP and for SEMA, with separate
opinions regarding the supporting documentation for disbursements based on
statements of expenditure, would be submitted no later than four months after the
end of their fiscal year.  In addition BADESP and CETESB will be required to
present semi-annual progress reports.
L. Benefits and Risks
3.20      Justification and Risk.  While project benefits are not readily quanti-
fiable, the health and economic benefits (including Increase In land value)
should be substantial, since about 65% of the investments by enterprises are
expected to occur in the Cubatao industrial center, considered by SEMA to be the
most heavily polluted area in Brazil. The risk of insufficient demand from
enterprises for financing is less than in the first project, as BADESP has a
pipeline of subprojects eligible for financing equal to 70% of the loan.
Enforcement of regulations and other factors which might adversely affect the
utilization of project funds will be reviewed regularly as part of normal super-
vision activities. The Bank has the right to call for an exchange of views with
SPS whenever commitments or disbursements under its component of the project fall
substantially below forecasts (Annex 12). Both BADESP and CETESB have developed
a project team with proven capabilities to Implement Part A of the project. The
capabilities of SEMA and the SEPAs to implement Part B of the project are
limited, so that SEMA would hire the services of an agency such as CETESB to
assist in implementing most of this program.
CHAPTER IV
Agreements and Recommendation
A. Agreement has been reached on the following matters:
(a) With the Government and SEMA on



- 16 -
(1)  Completion by December 1989 of diagnostic studies of local
Industrial pollution probleim and capabilities of SEPAs
(par&. 2.16);
(li) A program for the development of appropriate incentives for
pollution control by December 1988 (para. 2.19);
(iii) Procurement (para. 3.15).
(b)  With SPS and its Agencies (Part A of the Project)
(i) Subproject Uligibility Criteria (para. 3.07);
(ii) Onlending rates and principal adjustment (para. 3.08).
(ILL) BADESP's taking at least 251 of the credit risk for subloans
(para. 3.10).
(iv) Procurement (para. 3.15).
(c) Conditions of Loan Disbursement
For Part A
(i) Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 3.05).
(ii) Amendment of CETRSB - SABISP Cooperative Agreement and PROCOP's
Bylaws (para. 3.12); and
For Part B
SENA to hire outside agency to provide supporting services (para.
3.16).
B. Recommendation
Witb the above agreements, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank Loan of US$50 million to the Federative Republic of
Brazil based upon the terms and conditions outlined In Chapter III.



- 17 -
AN=1
Page I of 4
inmu,ma ~ummc r
CITES!
COMPANH!A DI TS3CDLOGIA DI SMIEANIATO AMBIENTAL
BacX8round
1.        In 1968 the State Secretariat of Publlc Works (SOMA) established
the State Basic Sanitation Fund (FE88) through the mrger of a number of
laboratorles to form a research and trainleg c4nter for sanitary
engineering. The Superintendency of Environmental Sanitation (SUSAM) was
created in 1970 under the State Secretarlat of Realth speciflcally to
control air pollution In the State of Sao Paulo.  In 1973 i-S wa
transformd into an Independent publlc enterprise, the State Basic
Sanitation Technology and Water Pollution Control Corporation (CITESB), and
granted greater flnancial and administrative autonomy. Following Its
merger with SUSAM In 1975, CETESB became the state's onvironmntal
protection control agency. CITE8S's objectives and legal attributes
include, Later alias: () enforement of the state pollution control
legislation; (ii) monitoring of air and water quality levels throughout the
state; (1ii) research and development of pollution control technology; (iv)
establishment of quality standards for pollution control equlpment; and (v)
technical assistance and training for the personnel of agencies in charge
of water and sewerage treatment plants.
Organization
2.         anagemnt.  CETES! has a board of directors composed of the
company's president and six department heads, Including a newly created
position - the Environmental Planning Directorate (see Attachment 1). The
president of CMTESS reports to the State Secretary of Public Works and
Environment. Meeting once a week, the board members establish internal
operation pollcies and procedures, and asaure adequate coordination among
the company's various departments and ongoing pollution control programs.
3.        Staff.  Overall, CITESB has proven to be the most experienced and
technically competent institution of Its klnd In Latin America. Its staff
of 2,107, as of June 30, 1986, included 650 professionals. CETES! has been
able to improve efficiency by shrinking its staff IOX since 1980, while at
the same time establishing a system of new field offices (see para. 6
below). These efficiencies are reflected in a decrease of about 14X since
1980 in CETESB's total budget (see table below). CETEIS's budget is
financed 901 by the State and the remaining 10% is revenue received for
serlces rendered to the private sector and other stat6s.



- 18 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
4.        CETESB has used the technical assistance program financed by the
project to upgrade the techtical capability of its staff. Most middle
managers hbiv advanced degrees from foreign universities, and seminars are
held often to psure adequate diffusion of knowledge relevant to CETESB's
activities. Courses on engineering economics applied to pollution control
and on air, water, and solid wastes pollution control have been conducted
by CETESB; and staff have been tralned in cost-benefit analysis applicable
to pollution control.
CFTeS8's Budget
Actual              Growth
1980         1986         980--86
-4 -(US$ m)                 (X5
Current Expenses           37.9          32.2        -15.1
Investment Expenses          .7           1.1          54.1
Total             38.6         33.3         -13.8
Pollution Control Activities
5.        Two of the operational areas of CETESB-the Control Directorate
and the Regional Coordinator-carry out most of the Company's pollution
control activities. These two units are responsible for issuing licenses
for the installation, expansion, and operation of production activities
that may cause environmental problems. The Control Directorate, through
its Supporting Superintendency, is responsible for the technical evaluation
of projects presented to PROCOP. Under the Control Directorate (see
Attachment 1I) is the PROCOP Coordinating Unit (COP), whose objective is to
coordinate and implement the operational aspects of PROCOP. To ensure
satisfactory technical processing of the large number of subprojects
financed by PROCOP, the Divisions of Financing and Economic Studies on
Pollution and of Technical Assistance and Costs Studies of Pollution
Control have been added to the COP. In the metropolitan region of Sao
Paulo (MRSP), the Superintendency of Environmental Pollution Control-
another division of the Control Directorate-is responsible for the
reduction of pollution sources, and for the follow-up of the PROCOP-
financed projects. Outside the Metropolitan area this is handled by the
Regional Coordinator. The operational procedures normally followed by both
superintendencies of the Control Directorate and by the units of the
Regional Coordinator have proven adequate during Implementation of the
first project.
6.        CETESB's pollution control activities are divided inco responding
to specific citizen complaints, and implementing Control Programs with
clearly defined goals. In order to be more effective as the State's agency
for pollution control, CETESB during the last 3 years, has been
decentralizing as much as possible its activities, opening regional
offices, in the metropolitan area of Sao Paulo as well as in the other
regions of the state, that because of their proximity to the community can
bring about more rapid and effective solutions to community complaints and
pollution source problems. CETESB now has 22 regional offices in the
State.



-19-                           ANNEXI
Page 3 of 4
7.        CETESB operates a continuous telemetric air quality monitoring
system within the GSPA and Cubatao. It has 26 stations in GSPA of which
ten are onlA prtially operating. There are also three stations in
Cubatao, whis dro fully operational. For water quality monitoring CETESB
relies primarily on a manual sampling system of 95 stations ln the GSPA.
It has also established a system of four automatic stations to monitor
water quality at key locations on rivers in the GSPA. The automatic river
monitoring system, which was financed by Loan 1822-BR, is only partly
operational due to breakdowns in the equipment. The problems which CETESB
is experiencing with automatic monitoring systems, are to be studied by
technical consultants with financing from the Second Project. There Is
also a budget included within the TA component to improve and repair these
systems.
8.        The table below illustrates the range of pollution control
activities carried out by CETESB in 1980 and 1986. Its emphasis on
decentralizing is evidenced by CETESB's increase in issuing installment
permits in other regions of the state (2) and in the number of monitoring
visits made by CETESB in enterprises located outside the MRS? (4). It is
also signlficant In terms of CETESB's success in enforcement control that
the number of fines applied by CETESB to enterprises located in the MRSP
(5) has decreased since 1980.
CETESB's Pollution Control Activities
(198, 1986)
Type of Activity                                               1980  1986 a/
1'  Number of installment permits issued by CETESB to b/
the Metropolitan Region of Sao Paulo (MRSP)               4,082   3,077
2. Number of installment permits issued by CETESB to b/
other regions of the state                                4,375   4,859
3. Number of monitoring visits made by CETESB in
enterprises located in MRSP                               2,495   4,623
4.  Number of monitoring visits made by CETESB in
enterprises located outside MRSP                         11,934  14,061
5. Number of fines applied by CETESB to enterprises
located in MRSP C/                                          376     326
6. Number of fines applied by CETESB to enterprises
located outside MRSP                                       421      441
a/  Annualized estimate based on actual figures for the first eight months
in 1986.
b/  It includes industrial and non industrial permits.  About 902 of the
permits are for industrial use.
c/  The fines amounted to US$483,000 in 1980 and to US$843,000 in 1985.



- 20 -
AN= I
Page 4-of 4
9.        CETESS operates large and sophisticated laboratories. They are
staffed with about 140 experitnced tochnlilans and 120 professiouals. This
staff together with high quality equipment, some of it financed from Loan
1822-DR, give CITES! the capability to analyze almost any type of air,
water or solid samples collected and to flngerprint their characteristics
by source of emitter. During 1986 CIES! completed 225,000 chemical or
microbiological analyses In Its laboratories. As part of the first project
It also undertook some applled research on biological treatment of
industrial wastes and new methods for determiaing the toxlclty of samples.



l
I    I  '
~LI
uX1  |1E1
X j
I~ J-
I    *iI*



-_ 
Ii' |i~J rIJfIt{T  
{3 3.|
.--
_ _ _ _                   I ,
1|1~__
T 131



- 23 -
ANNEX 2
Page I of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOME CHARACTERISTICS OF THE STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCIES (SEPAs)
STATES           NAME OF AGENCY          RESPONSIBLE ADMINISTRATIVE ENTITY      STAFF
GROUP I
Sao Paulo  Sanitation Technology and    Secretariat of Public Works and          2,100
Water Pollution Control       the Environment
Corporation (CETESB)
Rio de     State Foundation of Environ- Secretariat of Public Works and           1,050
Janeiro    mental Engineering (FEEMA)   the Environment
GROUP II
Parana     Superintendency of Adminis-  Secretariat of the Interior                316
tration of Water and En-
vironmental Resources
(SUREHMA)
Bahia      Center of Environmental       Secretariat of Planning                    144
Resources (CRA)
Rio Grande Environmental Department      Secretariat of Health                     220
do Sul     (DMA)
Minas      Commission of Environmental  Secretariat of the State's                  100
Gerais     Policy (COPAM)                Science and Technology
Pernambuco Pernambuco Company of En-    Secretariat of Public Works and             100
vironmental Pollution         the Environment
Control and of Administra-
tion of Water Resources
(CPRH)
Maranhao   Secretariat of Natural        Secretariat of Natural Resources,          236
Resources, Technology and    Technology and the Environment
the Environment (SERNAT)
Goias      State Environmental           Secretariat of Health                      100
Superintendency (SEMAGO)
Santa      Foundation of Environmental  Secretariat of Health                      252
Catarina   Assistance and Technology
(FATMA)



- 24 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
STATES        NAME OF AGENCY             RESPONSIBLE ADMINISTRATIVE ENTITY      STAFF
Mato       Environmental Preservation   Environmental Secretariat/MS                220
Grosso     and Control Institute
Sul        (INAMB)
GROUP III
Sergipe    Environmental State           Secretariat of Sanitation and              74
Administration (ADEMA)        Water Resources
Alagoas    Environmental Coordinating   Secretariat of Sanitation and                87
Agency (CMA)                  Engineering
Ceara      Superintendency of Develop-  Secretariat of Planning
ment (SUDEC)
Paraiba    Superintendency of Environ-  Secretariat of Mines, Engineering           100
mental Defense (SUDEMA)       and the Environment
Piaui      Foundation Center of          Secretariat of Planning                     14
Economic and Social Research
(FUND/CEPRO)
GROUP IV
Amazonas   Center of Research and        Secretariat of Planning                     8
Technological Development
(CODEAMA)
Para       Department of Basic and       Secretariat of Health
Complimentary Plans (DABC)
Mato       Environmental Coordinating   Secretariat of Work and Social            7 (3)
Grosso     Agency (CMA)                  Development
Acre
Roraima
Rondonia   State Environmental Council  Secretariat of Planning                     3
(CONSEMA)                                                          (techni-
cians no
IEF)
Espirito   Department of Environmental  Secretariat of Health                        5
Santo      Plans (DMA)



0'.  I                             __ I. 
I               i          F1]Z
I.         0lX 
I                                           S SE    M0Wa



- 26 -
ANNEX 4
Paelof 7
BRAZIL
SECOND ID DSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PIOJECT
STA  APPRAISAL REPORT
BAtESP
Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sao Paulo S.A.
Organization
1.        Establishment and Obiectives.  The Banco de Desenvolvimento do
Estado de Sao Paulo (BAlESP) was formed in 1970 in the State of Sao Paulo
for promoting and financing the development of agricultural and industrial
enterprises, mainly by encouraging industrial growth in the less developed
regions of the state, stimulating private investments in the basic sectors
of the economy and supporting public infrastructure projects. In line with
these objectives BADBSP undertakes term lending and equity financing and
provides guarantees in local and foreign exchange.
2.        Ownership and Relations with the State Government.  In the last
two years BAlESP negotiated with the Government of the State of Sao Paulo
the transfer of its participation in the Bank's equity (99.9X) to the
State's commercial bank BANESPA - Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo S.A. When
this transaction was completed - at the end of 1986 - BAIESP became a
subsidiary of BANESPA and a member of the BANESPA conglomerate, which
includes a credit and finance company, a brokerage company, an insurance
company, an exchange brokerage company and a service company, in addition
to BANESPA itself. Neither BAIESP's legal identity nor its ability to
attain its original institutional and strategic objectives has been
changed. On the other hand, through its association with one of the
largest comkercial banks in the state, and its network of 600 offices
within the state, it will now be able to offer and provide its clients a
wider range of products and services. By the same token, this integration
will not prevent the State Government from using BADESP as a main agent to
promote its socio-economic policies, whether directly or indirectly,
because (a) the BANESPA conglomerate is also an off-budget agent of the
State jovernment and (b) BAlESP manages several State funds, which reflect
the policies of the different State Departments.
3.        Policy and Decision-Making Councils.  BAIZSP is governed by an
administrative council, composed of seven members, including BAIESP's
president and vice-president. (A diagram of its organizational structure is
provided in the Project File). Management authority, as with most other
Brazilian state development banks, is delegated to a collegial directorate,
composed of five directors and BAIESP's President. Each director is
responsible for the day-to-day operations of a functional area. Two of
these directors are responsible for operations, one for agriculture and the
other for industry, commerce, and special operations. The president takes
charge of the Bank as a whole and coordinates the activities of the



- 27 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 7
directors. For discussions on matters of policy, the directors meet weekly
as a board, under the chairmanship of the president.
4.        Management and Staff.  The directors are appointed by the
Governor and formally elected by the General Assembly of Stockholders, for
a term of three years. Turnover at this level has been considerably
reduced during the present term (1983-1987). There are no minimum
professional qualifications for the selection of directors or other high
level staff and, being political appointments, their quality varies. With
the help of the Brazilian Association of Development Banks (ABDE), the
State Foundation for Administrative Support (FUNDAP), and the federal
government's National Development Bank (BNMES), BADESP is taking steps to
improve its management and technical capabilities.  For this, it has set up
specific staff training programs and its managers are attending management
training programs run by ABDl. In turn, management is improving personnel
administration with Staff Regulations, adequate job descriptions and salary
schedules, plus improved performance evaluation and promotion systems.
5.        Over the past year BAMESP's management has made a series of
organizational changes to improve operational efficiency and performance
and to keep up with the operational growth of the institution (see para.
12). On June 30, 1986 BADESP had a staff of 564 vs. 483 in 1980 (an
increase of about 3S p.a.), of which about 40% are professionals.
Operational Procedures and Practices
6.        Appraisal.  BAJZSP's appraisal standards and procedures are
satisfactory, and they have improved during the last three years.
Techniques for assessing the viability of subprojects have been developed
which usually include financial forecasts and subsector economic
prospects. However, subproject appraisals rarely include financial or
economic rate of return calculations. The latter are not considered
necessary for the proposed project as pollution control subprojects are
seldom productive investments. BAJESP staff continue to attend special
training programs sponsored by BNIES and ABnE to further strengthen
BADESP's appraisal capability.
7.        Supervision.  Responsibility for supervision of disbursements
during implementation and,follow-up activities beyond that stage are
assigned to the operational departments which also appraise subprojects.
Follow-up could benefit from (a) more systematic programming of supervision
activities; (b) periodic receipt and analysis of information on a larger
number of clients; (c) in-the-field supervision beyond visits to problem
clients; and (d) systematic analysis of subborrowert' fin,ncial position.
BAIESP's management is trying to increase its follow-up activities but is
reluctant to add new staff. While supervision activities can be increased,
their frequency and procedures are adequate for the purposes of the
project.
8.        Procurement and Disbursement.  BADESP makes satisfactory efforts
to gauge adequacy and competitiveness of fixed assets purchases and is



- 28 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
building up its staff's technical expertise, partly because project
appraisal guidelines for subprojects financed through BNES's credit lines
require that the technical process, machinery and equipment to be procured
be justified taking into account alternative processes and equipment.
9.        BAMESP has formal disbursement procedures to control subproject
expenditures. These procedures are adequate, and call for a site
inspection as a condition for each disbursement, During each visit BALESP
staff review and approve the documentation for each expenditure. The
documentation is kept by each client for the maturity of the subloan.
Control sheets recording each document are kept by BALESP.
10.       Internal and external audit.  BALESP is inspected continuously by
the Central Bank to ensure compliance with banking laws and regulations.
However, these inspections do not cover all aspects of external auditing
procedures. In addition, BALESP has independent external auditors
(Revisora Nacional), which examine BADeSP's financial statements, in
accordance with generally accepted accounting standards. While the
auditors are to produce every six months a management report on internal
control and short form financial statements, they do not pass judgment on
the quality of BALESP's portfolio or loan collaterals. As part of its
periodic reporting to the Bank under the project, BALESP would be required
to have its external auditor prepare annually a full audit report following
the standard format for DFCs associated with the Bank and covering
separately the operations of PROCOP, including verifying SOE payment
information.
Resources
11.       In addition to its equity, the following resources are available
to BALESP: (a) proceeds from the sale of bank and interbank deposit
certificates; (b) resources supplied by other national and international
sources, for which BALESP acts as a financial agent, and (c) federal, state
and local resources alloted to BALESP's control. Starting in 1979/80,
difficulties in obtaining funds for large public or private projects forced
BADESP to take short-term funds to honor commitments with entities which
supplied BADESP with funds. The use of short-term resources reached its
peak in 1982, when they represented as much as 49.6% of the total funds
mobilized by BALESP. This was a transitory problem, affecting all
development banks between 1980 and 1982, a period in which liquidity was
low both in Brazil and abroad. As of mid-1986 BALESP's main source of
funding for its loan portfolio was the federal government, through FINAME
(for the manufacturing sector) and through BNDES's joint operation
program. Foreign loans make up only about 3.4% of BADESP's liabilities
as of the first half of 1986. (See Attachment I).
Past Operations
12.       BALESP's aggregate loan portfolio has risen from ORTN 43 million
in 1979 to ORTN 56 million in 1985, growing at a compound annual rate of
about 4.5% in real terms. As of June 30, 1986, about 0.6% of its



- 29 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
loan portfolio went to the agricultural sector, 28.8% for industry and
70.6% for services and basic. infrastructure. Thus far, equity financing
has been limited to a few investments in five large state-owned
corporations amounting to less than 20% of BAIESP's total assets. At
mid-1986 the outstanding loan portfolio was made up of 75% to public sector
companies, 25% to private sector companies.
Quality of Portfolio and Provisions for Losses
13.       New Loans.  In 1985, a total of 819 new direct loans were
contracted, including 538 projects aiming at strengthening micro, small and
medium sized companies. On December 31, 1985, BAIESP's loan portfolio
totalling ORTN 56 million (US$375 million equivalent, see Attachment III),
was broken down as follows:
BAIESP's Loan Portfolio as of December 31, 1985
(in percentages)
(X)
Short-term loans                                         22.6
Long-term loans                                          57.9
Bonds and guarantees                                     19.0
Lease-back operations                                     0.5
100.0
14.       Arrears.  BADESP's total portfolio affected by arrears (at risk)
has decreased from 33% of total loans in 1979 to 22% in the first half of
1986 (see table below). In 1979 BAIESP had 28% of its 1,370 clients in
arrears, while in mid 1986 it had only 1.5% of its 2,697 clients in the
same situation. This improvement in portfolio quality was due to better
performance of private sector borrowers whose share of portfolio affected
by arrears dropped from 86% in 1979 to 46% in mid 1986. By contrast,
public sector companies had 14% share of the portfolio at risk in 1979 and
54% in mid 1986. Other reasons for this improvement were (a) renewed
growth of the economy; (b) increased efforts to recover collateral on
problem loans; (c) loan rescheduling and (d) improved appraisal and
supervision procedures.



- 30 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
BADESP'S PORTFOLIO AFFECTED BY ARREARS
3/30/79                     6/30/86
CZ$UM                      CZ$M            X
A. Past Due Portfolio
Private                    1.7          11.4         467.4            7.2
Public                     0.1           0.7          39.4           0.6
Sub-total                1.8          12.1        506.8            7.8
B.  Outstanding Portfolio of
Contracts in Arrears
Private                    2.5          16.8         182.9            2.8
Public                     0.6           4.0         716.3           11.0
Sub-total                3.1          20.8        899.2           13.8
C. Total Portfolio Affected
by Arrears (A + B)         4.9          32.9        1406.0          21.6
D.  Total Portfolio           14.9         100.0        6509.7          100.0
15.       As of June 30, 1986, 7.8% of the portfolio was past due.  Of this
amount, public sector companies make up a very small share (8X), whereas
almost all (92%) of the delinquent clients were from the private sector,
reflecting the more advanced age of these arrears. Only 14 companies
make up 96% of the private sector past due. One company, the Matarazzo
Group, accounted for about 42% of total private sector arrears (see table
below and Attachment III). These clients form a hard core of problem loans
that BAIESP has been shouldering for years. They do not reflect the
improved quality of the remainder of the portfolio.
BA12SP'S PAST DUE PORTFOLIO
June 30, 1986
CZ$M4          X
1. Public                               39.4           7.8
2. Private                             467.4          92.2
of which
Matarazzo Group                     194.2          41.5
13 companies                       256.0          54.8
Other                                17.2          3.7
Total Past Due Portfolio               506.8         100.0
Total Portfolio                       6509.7
Past Due as % of Total Portfolio                       7.8



- 31 -
ANNEX 4
Page  of 7
16.       Provision for Losses.  In accordance with accounting practices
for development banks required by the Brazilian Central Bank, past due
credits in excess of collateral pledged, for debtors whose installments are
more than 180 days overdue, must be written off against a provision. In
1985, such provision amounted to ORTN 0.174 million (U8$1.2 million
equivalent see Attachment II), or 1.4% of the total portfolio affected by
arrears. It is unlikely that this provision for losses, as established, is
sufficient to cover losses.
17.       Financial Situation.  BALESP's financial indicators reflect the
institution's financial difficulties. BAIESP's Debt/Equity ratio rose from
6 to 1 in 1980 to 13 to 1 as of year-end 1985. In 1985 BAIlSP had a
current ratio of 0.95 and a negative spread. In fact during the last seven
years, BADESP has been unable to make a profit after adjustments for
inflation. The gross spread has shown a yearly deterioration, from 7.4% in
1980 to -3.9% in 1985. The deterioration in the gross spread has been due
primarily to BADESP's narrow margin on official credit lines and a
reduction in the share of earning assets as a percent of average total
assets from 98% in 1980 to 91% in 1985. At the same times the share of
non-earning assets (mainly cash, receivables and fixed assets) in average
total assets increased from 3X in 1980 to 10 in 1985. In the same years,
while administrative expenses as a percent of average total assets
decreased from 2% to 1.4%, interest expenses increased from 25.5% to
65.8%. However, these problems are endemic to the Brazilian development
banking system, and progress in solving them has been slow.
18.       Notwithstanding its profitability problems, BADESP has been able
to improve the management of its loan portfolio (see paras. 14-16) and its
appraisal and supervision procedures (see paras. 6-7) are acceptable so
that it is still considered an appropriate channel for Bank loan funds to
reach the industrial enterprises. BADESP's role in the proposed operation
will be limited to subloan approval and administration of the PROCOP
account. This function has been carried out in a fully satisfactory manner
under the first project. However, in the proposed operation BADESP should
share some of the credit risk on subprojects in order to increase its
incentive for good performance. At the same time, the SPS is not looking
to this account for repayment of the Bank loan. BADESP's financial
condition would only become relevant for the project in the unlikely event
that its situation becomes so bad that the State would decide to close it
down or merge it into another institution. If such event were to occur,
the BALESP functions could be transferred to another acceptable financial
institution (such as possibly BANESPA).
19.       PROCOP.  PROCOP was established in the First Project as a
revolving account, owned by SPS and through which SPS funds would be
channeled to industrial enterprises. During implementation two separate
accounts (PROCOP I and PROCOP II) were established. The use of these
sub-accounts proved unnecessary and actually had drawbacks. Thus, for the
proposed Second Project, the State of Sao Paulo requested the appraisal
mission to arrange a waiver of its obligations concerning the two
sub-accounts. In early January 1987, the Bank informed the State that it
had no objection to the merging of the PROCOP sub-accounts.



- 32-                        ANNX4
TgR7of 7
20.       The revolving fund has been recently audited by VA3SP's external
auditors - Revisora Nacional. In their opinion, the requests for
reimbursements (related to statement of expenditures) submitted to BNDES,
and the supporting sehedules and Information submitted with thes, together
with the internal controls and procedures Livolved in their preparation,
can be fairly relied on to support the applications for reimbursement in
accordance with the requlrements of the legal agreements. Its 1985 balance
sheet (see Attachment IV) indicates that PROCOP Is assetiliability matched
wlth 73% of its total assets financed with resources from IBRD and 26X from
the State of Sao Paulo.



33 _                    ANNEX 4
Attachment I
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
BADRSP
Sources of Funds for Current Portfolio
(June 3D, 1986)
CZ$'000           Percent Share
Banco Central do Brasll                152,107                2.3
BNDES                                  385,654                5.9
BNH                                      5,750                0.1
FINAME                               2,992,293               46.0
FINEP                                   69,214                 1.1
Other Institutions                     309,154                4.7
State Funds*                           472,138                7.3
Own Resources                          431,718                6.6
Long-Term Deposits                   1,470,877               22.6
Foreign Loans                          220,840                 3.4
6,509,745              100.0
* Does not include PROCOP
January 27, 1987



- 34 -                         ANNEX 4
Attachment II
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BADESP
Balance Sheet
(In millions of ORTN)
1979     1980     1981     1982     1983    1984       1985
Assets
Cash and Securities          1.4      1.6       1.7      1.9      1.9      3.0      1.8
Loans Outstanding
Private                   22.8     19.5      17.6     21.6     12.7     11.6     12.3
Public                    21.2     25.4      31.7     35.8     44.5     39.1     43.9
Agriculture                1.8       1.7      1.0      0.7      0.3      0.1      0.3
Past Due                   1.2      1.4       1.6      0.2      0.2      1.3      0.2
Provision for Losses      (1.2)    (1.4)    (1.6)    (0.2)    (0.2)    (1.3)    (0.2)
Sub-Total Loans         45.8     46.6      50.3     58.1     57.6     50.8     56.5
Receivables                  0.8       0.8      1.2      6.9      8.4      8.4      5.5
Fixed Assets                 0.4      0.4      0.4       0.8      0.8      0.8      0.7
Total Assets            48.4     49.4     53.6    67.7       68.7     63.0     64.5
(US$ m. Equivalent)        536.2    535.7    582.7    735.7    490.1    437.2    434.2
Liabilities
Term Deposits                -        -         4.0     18.0     18.2     16.5     12.2
Borrowings
Local                     34.6      34.8     34.3     35.2     36.1     35.2     40.2
Foreign                    3.7       3.6     4.4       3.9      4.8      3.9      2.8
Sub-Total Borrowings    38.3     38.4      38.7     39.1     40.9     39.1     43.0
Other Liabilities            3.7       3.2      2.4      2.0      2.6      2.1      4.7
Total Liabilities       42.0     41.6     45.1    59.1       61.7     57.7     59.9
Capital                      2.8      4.2       3.7      3.5      2.8      2.4      2.2
Resources and Retained
Earnings                   3.6       3.6     4.8       5.1      4.2      2.9      2.4
Total Equity             6.4      7.8       8.5      8.6      7.0      5.3      4.6
Total Liabilities and
Equity                48.4     49.4     53.6    67.7    68.7        63.0    64.$
MM_Wm .        _     mi=   .n       mu



-35-
ANNEX 4
Attachment II
Page 2 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BADESP
Income Statements
(In millions of ORTN)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984       1985
Income
Interest on Loans          16.9    16.1    22.3    28.4    36.7    40.6        40.1
Interest on Investments    0.1       0.2     0.3      0.5     1.3      2.6      3.4
Other                       0.4      1.5     1.6      3.3     4.8      4.5       3.3
Total Income          17.4    17.8    24.2    32.2    42.8    47.7        46.8
Expenses
Financial Expenses         14.1    12.5    17.6    26.0    37.4    42.2        42.6
Adm. Expenses             0.9      1.0     0.9      1.0     0.9      0.8      0*9
Other Expenses              0.6      1.8     1.9      1.3     1.3      2.3      0.9
Sub-Total Expenses   15.6    15.3    20.4    28.3    39.6    45.3         44.3
Monetary Correction          1.8     2.3      3.8     3.9     4.7      4.2       3.1
Total Expenses        17.4    17.6    24.2    32.2    44.3    49.5        47.4
Net Income (Loss)      -        0.2     -       -       (1.5)   (1.8)    (0.6)
January 27, 1987



BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
BADESP
Past Due Portfolio
(Values in Cr$ as of 6130/86)
Ati      De  31 a      De  61 a     De  91 a          de                        z
DISCRIMINACAO                     30  dias    60  dias       90  dias      180 dias    180  dias         Total      Share
Er,oresas estatais
Feousa                              1.351.4    33.874.0         615.5      3.524,7          _           39.36S,6
SUB-TOTAL EMPRESAS ESTATAIS         1.351.4    33.874,0         615.5      3.524.7          _           39.365.6      7.8
Emoresas privadas
Campinas Palace Hotel                  -          _              _            _         22.119,2        22.119,2      4.4
Fomapar - Empreend. Part.              _          _              _             0,7       5.561,2         5.561,9      1.1
Imoblliiria Guatapari                *            _              _                      14.687,5        14.687,5      2.9
Ind. Cor. Jorge Caoasrle               0,7        _              _  *         _          7.799,1         7.799,8      1.5
Ind. Hetal.rgica Tergal              388,9        -           .                1,3      15.387,5        15.777,7      3.1
I.R.F. Matarazzo                       17,8     1.954,8          23,8      9.0SO,3    183.132,2       194.208,9    38.3
Italtractor Picchi                   . 0,3          0,2           0,3          1,2.      5.023,5        5.025,5       1.0
Pan Mundial Ind. Corn. lop. Exp.       -          _              24,8         45,5      10.592,8        10.663,1      2.1
Rddto Tv' Bandeirancea             4.305,4      3.300,3       4.092,7     15.825,6  |       -           27.524,0      5.4
Ravel S/A.                             -          -                           -          6.095,4         6.095,4      1.2
Servix Engenharia                     _         6.001,8       5.137,5-     1.793,2      44.665,2       57.597,7      11.4.
Suoerbom S/A.                           2,1       _             127,4       220,3       69.030,5       69.363,3      13.7
Tecelagem Parahyba                    _           _              -            -          8.042,9        8.042,9       1.6
Zona Sul Veiculos S/A.                _    .         _           _                       5.701,3         5.701.3      1.1
SUB-TOTAL'                         4.715,2    11.257,1        9.406,5     26.951,1    397.838,3       450.168.2    88.8
Empresas privadas (outras).        6.571,0        352,7       1.119,90       329,4.      8.862.3        17.235,3     3.4
SUB-TOTAL EMPRESAS PRIVADAS       .11.286.2    11.609,8      10.526,4     27.280,5    406.700,6-    467.4n3 5    92.2           -
TOTAL OEIRAL                      12.637,6    45.403,8      11.141.9      30.80$,2    406.700.C6      506.769,1    100.00



_37                        ANNEX 4
~A~DUNTIV
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MROCOP
Pro rams de Control. da Poluicao Induetrial
Balance Sheet
(in millions of CZ$)
as of December 31, 1985
Assets
Cash
Loans
With resources from IIRD                                        56.1
With resources from the State of Sao Paulo                      20.2
Sub-total loans                           7.
Revenue Receivable                                                 0.6
Securities                                                         0.5
Total Assets                       77.4
a-
(US$ m equivalent)                                                   7*4
Liabilities
Borrowings:
IBRD                                                            48.7
State of Sao Paulo                                               8.2
Monetary Correction                                             20.1
Sub-total liabilities                     79.
Commissions Payable                                                0.4
Total Liabilities                  77.4
January 27, 1987



- 38 -
ANNEX 5
BRZL
SA0 PADLO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION COWNTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Eaticuted SCeWdUle of Diabureemts
IBRD FY and                           Disbursement (USS Million)
Quarter Ended                    By Quarter                Cummulatlve
FY88
September 30                           -
December 31                  
March 31                               .7                         -
June 30                                .8                        1.5
FY89
Sept-mber 30                          1.7                         -
December 31                           1.8                         -
March 31                              2.5                         -
June 30                               2.5                       10.0
FY90
September 30                          2.7                         -
December 31                           2.8
March 31                              3.0                         -
June 30                               3.0                      .21.5
Ti 91
September 30                          3.0                         -
December 31                           3.0
March 31                              2.8                         -
June 30                               2.7                       33.0
FY92
September 30                          2.5                         -
December 31                           2.5
March 31                              1.8                         -
June 30                               1.7                       41.5
FY93
September 30                          1.5                         -
December 31                           1.5
March 31                              1.3                         -
June 30                               1.2                       47.0
FY94
September 30                           .8                         -
December 31                            .7
March 31                               .8                         -
June 30                                .7                       50.0
Closing Date: December 31, 1994



-  39 -
AM.WE 6
Table I
,IrL
SAO PAULO INDUSTIL PO.LLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STA8  APRISAL RPOT
TABLE 1. Overall Air Quality in the GSPA in 1976/1985
* I1 Pollutat
.l=ft    vto       PAVICUItE            SULUI          Cclm
MttRt(UORE)           Ot1XO         _loht (oh)
S6           114               66               7.6
Aw.                                          itsual  ctt3  11    6               9.3
(Stat  wito the hiat            6            134                                100
cooawtetto)                     a6           139               116              11.0
PH   smommtvitoanm-Plo          61           166               130              11.4
5g~ - Arltlmotie Nt -asauge                  in                147              11.0
co .mt--oval'egeal              it           147               169              11.6
mu-rn-iO                   6           I111              143              13.1
77          106               146              13.6
76          1in               11               12.0
S    S                 ~~~~~0 106
6            121                 0              167
*Ab   of t1a   that w3 4e                                                        1
daily  stanrd  Wu ucaded    6at 
(all 0teru  stations)                         11                                  4
60          6184               39              243
79          114                13              1
76           63                 2              199
l                         ts          111          , 763                11
i6           111                0              19i
es            a0                 0              l06
6s           44                  0              167
_r of dys that the daily    83                27                 0              10
stanrd ws sexceded              I2 t33                           0              16
{(.1  fitoring stations)        6             67                 0              274
a             37                4              24
79           ii                 13             15
7i            44                 1             29
7            47                 O              190
76  16              0              196
86          492               167              19.3
64           496              110               18.4
3            37                m               20.3
86          409                336             10.6
lut1d doily conetration         61           643               331              26.7
(all montoring sutatins         60           464               483              20,6
PN and s2. ' sl                 79           634               466              2t7
CO- pp                          i6          4*6                713              25.4
n           4t5                                1 26.
6           547               348              19.6
MRTC: Data vte  to thw followirg saupl1ig sites: AclieCio, CMos (its..,  _,Mo  Pat
do hpiblica, Tatopi. Pineros e Comr      .
So5Ce: CtTESS * State Cnviromnta  Control Ageny



-40 -
ANN=X 6
TaUble II
- INPSTiAl  IGLLTIO  CWITIU MOJUCT
Table II. Cubatao (Vila Parisi) Air Quality 1/ 1984-86
2 of Time                                    1984     1985     1986
Acceptable                                    18       18       28
Inadequate                                    32       37       29
Bad                                           41       42       43
Terrible                                       9        3        0
100      100      100
17 Measured ozone and particulate matter.
Sourcet CETESB Results Report, August 1986, Project File.



41 -
AM= 6
Table III
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimates of Pollution Loads and Deterioration of Water Ways
in the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (USPA)
1975    1960    1905    2000
Population (millidn inhabitants)
Total                                               9.6    12.3    14.5    21.6
Provided with sewerage services                     4.0     5.3     7.0   19.0
Sewage Flows (03/0)
Domestic sewag                                  12      1S      20       70'
Industrial sewag                                 9      10      32       15
Total                                           21      25      3S
Pollution Loads (in tons of S     per day)
-Domestic Sewage                                21.   US        3R   1,025
Industrial sewage                              2?0     200     210     200
Urban run-off                                   90     110     130      190
Total                                          on      on9    710   1,475
Dilution Capacity of Water Courses
Natural river flows in Greater S.P.
(m3/sec)    -87                                      87      87      87
Flows taken out by SAIESP and industry
(m3/sec)                                    23       2B      26      40
Remanent flows for dilution (mr/see)            64      a1      61.    47
Average dilution index (relation between
remanent river flows and total sewage
flows)                                        3       2.4     1.5     0.06
Average concentration of pollution loads in
the water courses 2/
000 average (mg/l)                              n       as      72      115
Concentration ratio related to 1975            100      43      102     102
I/ BO  is an indicator expressing presence of degradable organic matter in water
(e.g. high levels of SOD and absence of Dissolved Oxygen (00) result in
offensive odors and environmental nuisances, in addition to the potential
health hazards). BO0 measured at 200 centigrade and five days incubation
period.
2/ Estimated BOO In the water courses after dilution of total sewage with river
flows.
Snource: VWTRRB



- 42 -
ANNEX 6
Table IV
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Water Qualit Data for the Rio Cubatao Basin
July 1984 to July 1986
Pointof CB 2 200    CF 2 020       CB z 400-   M     AN        PG W4 4u
cofleot.  ido Cubatio Afterbay     Rio O3batio  Rio Moji       Rio Pia-
Preta       Heny Borden damnstrem   Brd  on           gagura
Br2oga      Pcrr          of Rio Pe-   Cubaio -       Vila Pa-
Plant        rsu           Gursuj&       risi Brl
Hfigha        dge.
Parmter  MtN.  MAX.   MIN.  MAX.  MIN.  MAX.  M            Ay tO
pH        GA     77    40    7.4      j  .1        1.6i'    5.7    3.2 
CD      t7    10.4   7.5  9F.    GA    9.0          3    9.3            .
M 3              4      1      29     3     16      I     10     4      54
W          am0.    2.95   22    9.    242   12.2   6.90   97*x  9.4
.UI    (0.006   5.10   0.02   3.70   ND    5,10  <005  42*    029   41*
mhwo.   0.020  0.165 00    0.9t0   OS   0.740  440    3P    04    100
Zug
,rczy   O,0ODI <cOA   <W00  <0A0  < 00,01 <0.A=2- <0.00  <0003 <0001   00
Phenol.   I01    0.003  <0.001  o00o0  0039   0.0 <0001   0m    O0.0 59
ftol
lifon       110  35A0    5    1.700   790  50.0  < 2   92000  < 2   3.M00.
Source: Environmental Pollution Control In Cubatao
Results Report - July 1983 to July 1986



- 43 -
ANNEX 7
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Revised Nasterplan for Sewage Collection and Treatment in the GSPA
SPS had planned to implement phase one of its masterplan
(SANEGRAN) during 1978-83 under the Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and
Treatment Project (Loan 1525-BR). The project objectives included
increasing sewer connections from 38% of the population to 55% and
increasing the volume of sewage treated from less than 5% to 40% during the
period.
The severe economic recession of 1982-84 reduced local financial
resources available for the project. At the same time, the independent
municipalities within the GSPA did not construct the required sewer
interceptors, because they were not eligible for financing from the
National Sanitation Fund, administered by the National Rousing Bank (BNH).
SPS, BNH and the Bank attempted to reformulate the project in 1984.
However, these efforts were unsuccessful, and the undisbursed balance of
the Bank Loan was cancelled. SABESP hired consultants who produced a
report containing recommendations for completing the first phase of the old
mesterplan and redesigning the remainder. SABESP has accepted the
consultant's recommendation and the newly elected SPS government is
expected to confirm its support for this plan shortly.
The new masterplan is estimated to cost US$1 billion spread over
the period 1987-2004. Its revised objectives are to increase sewer
connections from 48% of the population in 1986, to 64% by 1991, and 88% in
2005. The volume collected would be fully treated by the end of the Plan
with an intermediate target of 50% in 1990. The key independent
municipalities are now expected to participate in the project, as a change
in federal policy makes them eligible for financing from CEF, the successor
institution to BNH. The Inter-American Development Bank has recently
negotiated a loan to partially finance sewers in Sao Paulo including these
municipalities.



-44 -
Page 1 of 2
,905DiNWEC   A GCOUIUW WDoL PROJEcT
STA    APPISAL r
Draft Plan for
Development of SEM Reco_uendations on
National Incentlves for Investment to Control
Industrial Pollution In Brazil
A. Preamble
1.        Pollution causes destruction of the natural resource base,
deterioration of public bealth, and a growing burden on economic and soclal
systems.
2.        Control or reduction of pollution from existing sources provides a
benefit to society and the economy.
3.        The costs associated with the control or reduction of pollution will
be paid by industry, which can rely on government help and incentives for this
purpose.
4.        Incentives are the means by which the government pays a share of
industry's costs In advance, when it recognizes a real benefit to society for
doing so.
5.        The structure and nature of incentives allow government to implement
its pollution control strategy in accordance with its priorities.
B. Objectives of the Analysis
The incentives to be considered would be limited to the control of
Industrial pollution caused by: (a) manufacturing processes; and (b)
extraction of natural resources.  SENA would identify alternative incentives
by measuring their contribution to national environmental pollcy, conslstent
with sustainable economic development, as defined in Law no. 6938 of August
31, 1986.
C. Methodology and Content
Phase One
1.        Study the experience of other countries in various stages of
development that have established incentlve sytema. Review literature first
and make visits second.
2.        Assess Braxil's current legislation, tax laws, and lending policies
of the Banking system to decide what incentives may or may not be feasible in
to the Brazilian context.



- 45 -
AM=Z 8
Page   of 2
Phase Two
3.        Using the data base provided by PROCOP or similar financial
Information from BNDES and other sources, determine the probable financial
investment and operatlng costs and benefits of pollution control. Determine
the Impact on profitability and capital by major type and size of industry.
Recommend the degree to which the financial impact on industries should be
mitigated by society.
4.        Calculate the probable fiscal costs to the government of alternative
lncentive systems, and examine sources of funding for them.
5.        Determine which ones are preferred in terms of:
(a) Impact on the efficiency of resource allocation
(b) Legal and regulatory ease of implementation
(c) Amount and transparency of financial burden on government
(d) Supporting governments pollution control prlorities
6.        Based on the above, recommend to CONAMA what national-level
incentive or incentives should be adopted for industrial pollution control
lnvestment.
D.  Implementation Schedule
1.        SEDA would provide a short list of consultants with their
qualifications and a draft contract to the Bank for its approved by August 31,
1987.
2.        Consuktants would complete Phase One work by February 28, 1988.
3.        SENA would carry out Phase two with the help of consultants and make
its recommendations to CONAMA by September 30, 1988.
4.        SEMA would request that a decision be made by CONAMA on these
recommendations by December 31, 1988. This decision would take the form of
either issuance of a federal regulation or, if necessary, a recommendation to
the President of Brazil to propose legislation.



- 46 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOD IUSTIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL IWORT
Terms of Reference for Dlagnostic Study
Status of Industrial Pollution and Envi omoental Nnitoring
in Selected States
A. Objecties of Stud
To determine the nature and extent of industrial air, water and
solid wAste pollution in 12 selected states and the capability of State
Governments or their Environmental Protection Agencies (SEPAs) to monitor
the problem.
To establish, on a priority basis, a list of additional
monitoring equipment and human resources required by each SEPA to fulfill
Its monitoring and control responsibilities as defined by SEMA and the
State involved.
B. Methodology
The study for each state would be carried out by a team of three
consultants working together for differing periods of time, one an expert
In industrial pollution control, and the others in environmental monitoring
and laboratory services. The Consultants should apply the rapid assessment
methodology detailed in the World Health Organization Offset Publication
No. 62. The study should take a total of about four staff months to
complete for states with greatest pollution problems and only six staff
weeks for states with the smallest problems. The consultants should make
maximum use of existing sources of government and public information,
reports and periodicals in order to minimize the need for field surveys or
visits to industry. Priority should be given to sources generating the
largest pollution or waste loads. In analyzing a SEPA's needs for
monitoring and laboratory equipment, the consultants should take into
account the possibility of one SEPA providing this support to another, if
the pollution problems faced by a SEPA are not large enough to justify
specialized equipment or staff for this purpose.
Co Contents of Pollution Assessment
(i) identify the types and sizes of the various pollution and
waste sources In the selected state;
(ii) locate, on the state map, the principal pollution sources;



- 47 -
AlNE 9
Page 2 of 2
(ili) determine the pollution load, i.e., the total amount of a
pollutant or a combination of pollutants released into the environment by
an industry or a group of industries in a given area during a certain
period of time;
(iv) interpret the environmental impact of the determined
pollution loads including a rough assessment of the impact of major
emissions on the population and on valuable natural resources;
(v) list possible areas where industrial pollution control
measures will be most cost effective;
(vi) assess the effectiveness of the existing pollution control
strategies and programs. Make recommendations for their improvement.
(vii) establish on a priority basis the staffing, training and
monitoring needs of the SEPA's pollution control and enforcement functions.
Do.  Coctents of )S.itolDzg Assessment
(i) establish a list of existing environmental monitoring equip-
ment in a SEPA and the supporting laboratory services available in public
health and educational institutions within the state;
(ii) assess the quality and effectiveness of the exis.ing moni-
toring equipment and laboratory services, taking into account relevant
federal and state pollution control legislation and the SEPA's monitoring
and enforcement priorities;
(iii) establish, on a priority basis, staffing, training and
equipment needs. Provide budget alternatives to fulfill these needs.
B. Qualifications of Consultants
The consultants should be qualified professionals (engineers or
physical scientists) with a minimum of five years progressive experience in
their field. The expert in pollution assessments should have his primary
professional experience in either environmental planning or control.



- 48 -
am~E 10
Page 1 of 2
*AL
can  IDi1usTRIA1 M M     como  PROJECT
STAll APPRAISA  REPOT
Terms  of Ref rLao
Asseesssut of Swtaulliu Twaiui Resources for Pollution Control
A. Obletitve  of tbe Study
To establish, for each state or group of states, the list of
educational and research Institutions, which are currently involved in
training activities related to industrial pollution control and monitoring.
To specify and assess the characteristics of each Institution in
terms of the number and qualifications of the teaching and research staff;
availability of training resources; suitability of supporting services
(library and laboratory).
so N     d
The diagnostic study would be carried out by one or two
consultants. The consultant should make rapid assessments on a state by
state basis. He should use existing sources of government and public
information, reports and periodicals in order to minimize the need for
field surveys or visits to educational institutions. The assessment of all
states should take up to four staff months. The consultant should work
closely with the staff of SEMA and the State Environmental Protection
Agencies (SEPAs).
C. Contents of Tralulu2 Resources Aussessnat
(i) establish a list of institutions with teaching and research
capabilities in industrial pollution control;
(ii) identify and list relevant ongoing training and related
research activities at each institution, and explain how and why these
activities began and evolved;
(iii) assess the characteristics of each institution in terms of
the number and qualifications of the teaching and research staff;
(iv) Identify and assess the sultability of existing training
resources (i.e., classrooms, training aides, libraries, etc.);



49 -
AN=  10
Page 2 of 2
tv) ldentlfy and assess the mechanisms for the evaluation of
training programs;
D. 8!M. of Wbk
The consultant should prepare a report on technical training In
environment and pollution control. The report should present (1) an
analysis of the current situation concerning training In Brasxl and (11)
make recommendations on which types of tranlang can most effectively be
carried out in Brazil and by what Institutions.
3.  Qulifictims of Coasuteats
The consultant should be a university professor with a minimum of
five years teaching experience in environmental sciences.



- 50 -
ANNEX 11
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Project Implementation Schedule
Steps to be Taken                                    Completion Date
Effectiveness                                       September 15, 1987
For Part A Disbursement                             September 15, 1987
(1) Sign Cooperative Agreements
CETESB and SABESP
CETESB and BADESP
(ii) Sign Subsidiary Loan Agreement
$PS and Fn
For Part B Disbursemont                             September 15, 1987
(i)   Sign Support Services Agreement
SEMA and CETESB
Diagnostic Studies for 12 States
(i)   Begin Studies                                      December 1, 1987
(ii)  Complete Studies                                   December 1, 1989
Program to Develop National Incentives
(i) SEMA short list of consultants and draft
contract                                           August 31, 1987
(il)  Consultants complete phase one                      February 28, 1988
(iii) SEMA completes phase two                            September 30, 1988
(iv)  CONAMA to make decision                             December 31, 1988
Final Date for Subloan Commitments                  September 15, 1990
Closing Date                                       December 31, 1994



- 51 -
ANNEX 12
hAL
SOEND ImUSTUl.EL POLLTIU CONTROL PROJCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOI
Project Performance Indicators
1988     1989     1990     1991     1992
PART A Sao Paulo
Air Quality Cubatao                 - To be provided.
Particulate Matter
Fluorides
Amonia
Oxides of Nitrogen
Oxide of Sulfur
Volatile Organics
Water Quality Cubatao
BOD
Residual Solids
Heavy Metals
Phenols
Fluorides
Cyanides
PART B SEMA
Number of Trainees
Inside Brazil                     139      157      156        -        -
outside Brazil                     2        21       35        -        -
Number of Seminars (2 weeks)       10        1       11        -        -
Expenditures (US$000)
Diagnostic Studies                100      200      130        -        -
Equipment purchases                -       500    1,500    1,200        -
Training Program                 430       770    1,170        -        -
Total Parts A and B
Loan Commitments (US$Million)      15.0     15.0     20.0      -        -
Loan Disbursements (US$Million)    1.5       8.5     11.5     11.5      8.5



- 52 -
ANNEX 13
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUMTON CONTROL PROJECT
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
(Amounts mn U8$ Million Equivalent)
Estimated Costs                                  Local   Forel      Total
(US  anll Uany-
Part A
Pollution Control Subprojects                   62.4      26.4     88.8
Technical Assistance to CETEIS                   256 2.6    _5.2
Subtotal                                        65.0      29.0     94.0
Part B
Technical Assistance to SUlA and
SEPAs other than CETSEB                       _3.0        .0      6.0
Total Estimated Costs                           68.0      32.0    100.0
Financing Plan:                                  Local  FForelg    Total
=(US uton)-
Part A
Proposed IBRD loan                               18.0     29.0     47,0
Enterprises                                     44.4       -       44.4
Sao Paulo                                        2.6       -        2.6
Subtotal                                         65.0     29.0     94.0
Part B
Proposed IBRD Loan                               -         3.0      3.0
Federal Gov' t.                                  3.0       -        3.0
Subtotal                                          3.0      3.0      6.0
Total Find aclg Plan                            68.0     32.0    100.0
_-               -_



- 53 -
ANNEX 14
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A-1 CETESB Enforcement Strategies for Cubatao
A-2 Rnvironmental Pollution Control in Cubatao (Results Report,
August 1986)
A-3 CETESB Enforcement Strategies for GSPA
- Particulate Matter
- sOX
- Water
- Solid Waste
B. Selected Report and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1 CETESB TA Program 1987-89
B-2 SEWA Technical Assistance Component (November 14, 1985)
B-3 BADESP/PROCOP Audit Reports for 1984, 1985
C. Selected Working Papers
C-1 BADESP Organization Report



t t j ' ............................. : - - S - / ~~IBRD 2038E
II X AZ I                                                                                                 BRAZIL
ArIe i                                                                                          CU BATAO - SANTOS AREA
Second Industrial
O 9                                                                                                       .4  . -'4  ' . . Polution Control Project
Areas above 200meters in elevation
Built- up areas
. .TR AFERT- ILIndutrial i commercial areas
VLA -PlkA9*GUERA
CA~~~~~L
acIf OENS                                                    E 2              ?    1     ,
OWES                                                                     IILOMETR
os > S tS ~~~~~~~~~~CAR80CLORO                                     r - _f t
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5'
-waw ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
,4iki/  
MARDCH YS287



BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
State of Sao Paulo and Greoter Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area
MINAS GERAIS                             STATE OF SAO PAULO
G,o,,  e                             Regional Departments
MATO                                             * S                                            State boundories
_   SAN JOSt DO                                   .. .t ...-Regional Department boundaries
GROSS 0                               I  R. PRETO       1                         ._ Greoter Sao Paulo
N                     (                 Rivers
R I (     RIBEIRAO
{    ARACATUB                            .      PRETO
'+  PRESIDENTE       ?             N
PRUDENTE            .>%                               s -'
_^    PRUDENTE                           ;N BA                                      / MINAS GERAIS
_   CAMPINAS                                             R RI0
MARILIA C
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SO ROC AB A
BRAZIL
12.   PARANA
%fPRNACLITORAL    ArrC  OCEANA
X  i        _ 40SAOPAULO ,,    t~"'             
OCF aPoulo w ,,, ,,, t__~~. ....                                                   0         50          'gO        ISO
Miles
CAMPINAS
\  _  /W   d    4  \ .  oC                           *\  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VA LE DO
_.1  T       /JrH* 721                        PARAiBA
i~~~~~~~ N1<       w_. ,OR   H4EAST   ,,' 
20     J 19
SOROCADA    N                     EST                                                 2_
35 , ,GREATER SAO PAULO METROPOLITAN AREA
-\   ;   15  E  l   i             ..                ~~~~~~~Sub-regions and Municipalities
J   \    2      1      0  |    |         ~~~~~~/ Schematic drawing -scale approximate
+/   '    11      11 |  !l !|./   LITORixL                         ~~~~~~~~~~Municipal boundaries
..      i          l  i  B i                                   F ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S&o Paulo Center
28 Salesopols
*-*   /  CENTER     8Itapevi                  NORTHEAST               Z9Suzano
Soo PauloCity      9 Jondiro                 19Aruia                  SOUTHEAST
I Caeiers           liIPirapora dortomJesfas  21 Santaisnob           30iadmou
2 Froncisco Morato    l2SantonS do,garnaiba    EAST                    32Ribeir6o Pires
3 Fronco do Rocha   SOUTHWEST1                22 Biritiba Miriam       33Rio Grondte do Serra
4Mairipora           3Cotia                        - 23Ferraz deVasconcelos  34SontoAndre
NORTHWEST           '4Ernbu                   2i5tauoqureceua          3i;Sdo iSernardo do Camoo    r;
5Barueri            l6tapecericado Serra      26MojidaesCruzb- re
s                          6 ~~~~~~ ~~Cajamar   17Juquitiba               27Pod                                               2
7 Carapicuiba            O    At8oidoda kerrbua



IBRD-1565 R
7k ( E NE ZU E  A < O j                                                                                     -^4 AUOUST 1983
(VENEZUELA ,JY               , c            REt~
A .SURINAMEZC            si~
C O  L    M  B I A  '               BOOVist                         
CJA\    A    A7 k   Zf/g~~~~~~.  JMAPAV
L.                            '*%  ,   J&JA i8A T LANTIC   OCEAA
Mmac
D~~~dFortoleza
A   A           ~~ARANHAO
rersinCEARA =    GAR   E DONORTE
X S  A  X   9, 0   A g                                  x mtct~P~RX[B  FW
Por it                                    Cuiabo Xf BRNAMBUiIeCde
B  A  H  I A            ERGIPE
(.                       *                 ~~~~~~~~~~~BRASILUAL*5  ~ 2 
GoiJn J.'
(       BO     I I                                                    7~~-     ; '   .!tF{SO       e ,          p        
P A C  F I C          )                                       ComPOGrande                              S//EP SITOSANTO
AX    ;   /  I                  l!            t  W~.POX       /(  2Vldna    A  T Z A N   /c
so.                           - g   ._  -'                t         A     . A O0   PAULO
C' E A        I   -' V
OCCA N                        ~~~~\PARAG AY                                  c0~CIo           ER             OC EANI
0     - iF         Curitibax
/S ()                        X/A,>        N NTA CATARIA
BAL jOUTH<X)     1        A RGC; E N T  lWN A                       \f >aFlorion6  i                 BRAZIL
A              Aft     O                                                                                I II  National capital
~~*nM~~00 Of isoort  Alg*                                                        State capitaliI
OcLA(C  I                                                          KILOMETERS 0 100 200 300  500 IT   StOo bOUndis
ow0f .s . A'jOOO. f
b ~~~Tr .woo/eaieh a" ow JY,                                                MILES  AO  2110a 360      *--Internationalboundories
.t'&.d .  l lWdr ".h.              URUGUAY                                               d"re
b J @ j6 V_ j oO~O  fltE  O,.O
_  t          ID                            >.\             .,:       50' 0  -                                              30



