Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16763
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(LOAN 2831-BR)
June 24, 1997
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit                                    Real (R)'
Rate at Appraisal (February 28, 1986)                  US$1/Cz$13.80
Rate at Closing (December 31, 1994)                    US$1/R 0.95
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BADESP           Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sao Paulo
BANESPA          Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo
BNDES            Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social
FESB             Basic Sanitation State Fund
GSPMA            Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area
IBAMA            Instituto Brasileiro de Meio Ambiente
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
PPAR             Project Performance Audit Report
PROCOP           Programa de Controle de Poluicao
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SEMA             Secretafia Especial do Meio Ambiente
SEPA             State Environmental Protection Agency
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
The Real was introduced in 1994.
Vice President      Shahid Javed Burki
Director            Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief      Constance Bernard
Task Manager       Laura Tlaiye



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2831-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page N°
PREFACE ..............................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ............................................. iii
Project Objectives .................................................... iii
Implementation Experience and Results .....................................................  iv
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned              ............................. vi
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..............1..........
A .  Background  .....................................................1
B. Project Design and Objectives .....................................................2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives .....................................................4
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................................  10
E. Bank Performance ..................................................... 13
F. Borrower Performance                  ..................................................... 13
G. Assessment of Outcome and Future Operation ....................................................     14
H. Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned ....................................................   14
PART II: STATISTICAL  INFORMATION ............................................   16
Table 1.   Summary of Assessments                                                               16
Table 2. Related Bank Loans .18
Table 3. Project Timetable .18
Table 4.   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                                  19
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation .20
Table 6. Impact of Studies Included in Project .22
Table 7. Project Costs and Financing .23
Table 8. Status of Legal Covenants .24
Table 9. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .26
Table 10. Bank Resources: Missions .........................                                   27
APPENDIX:          A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. MapNo. 20414
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2831-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second
Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan 2831-BR). This loan, in the amount of
US$50 million, was approved by the Board on June 9, 1987, was signed on July 27,
1987, and became effective on July 11, 1988.
The Loan closed on June 30, 1996, following two one-year extensions of the
Closing Date. The Bank made its last disbursement on November 13, 1996.
Following the termination of the grace period for disbursernents for expenditures
incurred before the loan Closing Date, an undisbursed balance of $4,115,040.02 was
canceled from the loan on November 13, 1996.
This ICR was prepared by Laura Tlaiye of the Natural Resources,
Environment and Rural Poverty Division (LAIER), Department I of the Latin
America and Caribbean Region. The ICR benefited from a Beneficiary Assessment
of the credit line component conducted by Price Waterhouse-Brazil and from an
independent evaluation of CETESB's Technical Assistance component conducted by
an independent consultant. LAIER wishes to thank the World Bank's Pollution
Economics Division of the Environment Department for the support provided to both
inputs to this ICR The Borrower provided comments on the Bank's draft ICR, and
these are included in Appendix B.
Two missions to Brazil took place, in November 1996 and March 1997,
to design and evaluate the beneficiary assessment which sought opinions from 60
polluting firms in the GSPMA. Discussions with relevant governrnent officials
about the Loan took place during the second mission. The assistance provided
by CETESB and BANESPA during this evaluation is greatly appreciated. Actual
preparation of this ICR was carried out during those missions and in Washington.
The ICR is based on material in the project file, discussions with Bank staff who
were involved in the project, and CETESB publications, as noted in the text.






- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2831-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Bank began to support government efforts to address pollution problems in
the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPMA) from the mid- 1970s in response to
mounting concerns about the deteriorating condition of the environment. The large
concentration of industrial output in GSPMA and the heavy industrial complex in the
Cubatao Valley near the port of Santos were contributing to increasing levels of air and
water pollution.
2.    The Second Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan 2831) was a second
operation in the mold of a previously restructured loan (Loan 1822), and was intended to
support a pollution management model which viewed credit for pollution control as a
flexible aid to CETESB's enforcement action. As in the first loan, Loan 2831 funded
PROCOP (Programa de Controle de PoluiVdo)-the State's pollution control credit
program, which supported investments to control all types of pollutants state-wide. The
second operation introduced modifications to minimize subsidized lending rates and to
speed subproject review. In addition, Loan 2831 introduced a federal TA component
intended to help the nascent institutions at the federal level (SEMA, later IBAMA) and
other state environmental agencies (SEPAs) in addressing industrial pollution issues.
Project Objectives
3.    As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Second Industrial Pollution
Control Project had two primary objectives:
a) to improve public health by further reducing air, water and solid waste pollution within
the State of Sao Paulo; and,
b) to strengthen SEMA and SEPAs, including CETESB, by developing these agencies'
operational and technical capabilities to design and implement long-term industrial
pollution control strategies and programs within their jurisdictions.
4.    The project was structured in two parts: Part A for the State of Sao Paulo and Part
B, a federal component. The objectives of each part were as follows:
Pollution Control Component (Part A. 1 - US$44.4 million of the loan) to finance
subprojects by industrial enterprises located in the State of Sao Paulo to reduce all
types of industrial pollution;



- iv -
Technical Assistance to CETESB (Part A. 2 - US$2.6 million) for institutional
strengthening of CETESB; and,
Federal Technical Assistance (Part B - US$ 3 million) to strengthen SEMA and
SEPAs other than CETESB.
5.    This ICR interprets the first project objective stated in para. 3 to mean that the
project intended to reduce pollution from firms that obtained financing through the
Pollution Control Component. If measured against public health improvements in the
entire State of Sao Paulo, any loan of this scale would be unsatisfactory considering the
size and complexity of the State's pollution problems. From fixed sources alone, 15,000
firms pollute Sao Paulo's air and water bodies compared to the 61 firms that became
beneficiaries of this loan. In addition, except for Cubatao, industry is not the only or even
the main polluter: the transport sector contributes with 40% of the particulate matter
emissions in the GSPMA, and 70% of the Tiete basin's organic pollution is associated
with domestic sewage discharges. Even using environmental quality indicators as a proxy
for project performance would be technically a mistake given the wide area that, by
design, the loan was intended to serve. Hence, for the purposes of this evaluation, the
achievement of this objective is measured against the reduction of pollution from
beneficiary firms.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    Part A of the loan experienced implementation difficulties during certain periods
with recovery during other periods. These implementation difficulties caused two
extensions of the closing date and resulted in 12% of the loan amount to remain
undisbursed. Despite the delays, the project was able to largely attain the objectives of
Part A by contributing to reductions of pollutant emissions in 103 investment subprojects
and by maintaining and improving CETESB's capacity as an environmental agency. Part
B of the project had serious difficulties from the start due to numerous institutional
changes at SEMA (later IBAMA) and poor cooperation with state environment agencies.
The objectives of this component were not achieved.
7.    The implementation difficulties of Part A, affecting 94 percent of the loan amount,
can be traced to three problem stages of implementation:
* from Effectiveness to October 1989. Commitments did not materialize due to
insufficient pipeline preparation and risk analysis during appraisal, inefficient
subproject processing, lack of enforcement, and unfavorable macroeconomic
conditions for borrowing;
* from October 1989 to May 1992. Disbursement of federal loans benefiting the State of
Sao Paulo was interrupted due to indebtedness issues, causing interruption in
processing of subprojects and uncertainty as to when the program could continue;
* Year 1994. The State Treasury blocked transfers from the loan to BANESPA,
instructing it to instead use resources of the State Pollution Fund. When the Pollution



- v -
Fund was depleted, BANESPA stopped disbursement to subprojects under
implementation which ultimately caused some subproject cancellations.
8.    Pollution Control Component. Despite the delays and implementation
difficulties during the above periods (the latter two beyond the control of project
management), performance improved from June 1992 up to December 1993, when full
commitments were achieved. In addition, disbursements improved after 1994. By closing,
the loan had supported 103 investment subprojects in 61 firms which reduced air pollution
(27 subprojects), water pollution (69 subprojects, mainly within the Tiete basin), and
improved waste disposal (7 subprojects). Some subprojects were canceled as a result of
the interruptions in the flow of funds; these subprojects were not fully replaced by new
ones, which is reflected in 12% of the loan amount canceled by closing date.
9.    Based on the analysis of the Beneficiary Assessment, it can be concluded that the
credit program leveraged more investment in pollution control in large firms that would
otherwise have invested only the minimum required to avoid CETESB's enforcement
actions. In addition, the credit program facilitated investment by medium and small firms
that would otherwise have resisted investing. In both groups of firms, CETESB's
enforcement actions were ranked by firms as the primary motivating factor for considering
investment in pollution control.
10.   Technical Assistance to CETESB. The project made an important contribution
to CETESB by updating and maintaining its monitoring equipment, updating staff skills,
and supporting research for improved regulations. Although this component also suffered
from the flow of funds difficulties mentioned above and from initial delays in procurement
processes, the project helped maintain CETESB's capacity which could have declined
after the personnel and budgetary reductions that have occurred in the past few years.
The agency remains as a respected institution in Latin America, a reputation that rests on
the technical quality and commitment of its staff and the State's efforts to remain in the
forefront of pollution management in Brazil.
11.   Technical Assistance to SEMA and SEPAs. This component suffered
difficulties from the beginning. SEMA was replaced by IBAMA, but the required legal
opinion to transfer SEMA's obligations under the project to IBAMA took a long time to
be issued by the appropriate government department. Further delays were caused by
changing leadership at IBAMA which caused changes in project coordination and new
views on how to implement the project. The limited progress in collaborating with states
in defining the needs for support under the component prompted the Bank to permit the
closing of this component by June 30, 1994.
12.   On the basis of the above results, the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory
because, despite implementation delays, the most significant components of the loan (in
terms of value and priority assigned in the SAR) were mostly achieved. A project internal
economic rate of return was not calculated at appraisal because of the difficulty in
quantifying the health and economic benefits and; thus, was not used in this ICR as a tool
to assess outcome. The reduction in pollution and institutional development were used as
proxies for outcome assessment.



- vi -
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
13.   Considering the project as an aid to CETESB's state-wide enforcement effort and
as a source of funding for institutional development, the main findings of this project are:
*  The project would have benefited from better pipeline preparation by appraisal: the
Bank should have recognized the risk of approving a loan with 70% of its identified
pipeline dependent on a single subloan to a state company, particularly since the law
limiting official bank exposure to debt from state enterprises was known prior to loan
approval.
*  The experience of low demand from the previous loan was not fully intemalized in
project design: the importance of coordinating enforcement strategy and credit use as
exemplified by the recovery of disbursements of Loan 1822-BR in Cubatao, was not
fully acknowledged in project design;
* Project risks were not fully recognized: the potential impact of Sao Paulo's increasing
debt with the Federal Government in a loan through a federal intermediary (BNDES)
should have been recognized at appraisal;
* The TA component for CETESB was successful although its full potential was not
achieved: the project helped maintain CETESB's technical and scientific resource base
within the pollution management strategy prevailing since the 1970s. However, its full
potential was not achieved due to organizational changes and CETESB's tendency to
isolate the program from strategic decision-making regarding enforcement actions.
14.   The project offers the following lessons:
*  Define specific environmental quality objectives, link enforcement actions and
performance indicators more closely: the project was expected to improve
environmental quality in Cubatao since 70% of the pre-identified pipeline was located
in that area; however, the loan was used state-wide. The overall effect was a
dispersion of the environmental benefits. Future projects should target specific priority
pollutants within saturated regions of the State, develop a management strategy that
includes all sources (not just industry), agree on pollution abatement targets and
penalties for non-compliance, and disclose progress towards the achievements of the
targets.
* Use credit more selectively: Credit may be a useful tool for enforcement actions in
targeted areas because it can help neutralize polluters' claims about the financial costs
of pollution control. However, administrative difficulties and transaction costs to
firms should be fully recognized.
* Recognize coverage limitations of credit: since larger firms tend to be the main
beneficiaries of credit, policy-makers may need to justify politically the allocation of
credit to those firms. Technically, this may be warranted if these firms represent an
important share of pollution and access to long-term credit improves the prospect of
faster compliance with agreed targets. Otherwise, allocating credit to large firms may
not be warranted and funds should be used for other purposes.
* Recognize other forms of assistance: firms (particularly medium and small enterprises)
appreciated the technical advice and information on pollution control technologies they



- vii -
received from CETESB. This assistance, particularly on low-cost housekeeping and
maintenance programs, may enhance their ability to reduce pollution.
15.   As for sustainability, PROCOP will continue to exist as long as prudent credit
management (especially collection) and subproject implementation monitoring continue.
As stated above, CETESB may need to select priority pollution problems to channel the
now limited resources of PROCOP to more strategic objectives. The sustainability of the
TA component is uncertain because it depends on CETESB's ability to retain its qualified
staff by competitively rewarding good performance and by allocating a portion of its
budget to maintain the assets purchased under the loan. The fiscal austerity prevailing in
the State is unlikely to favor investment in these areas and; thus, within the same or even
decreasing resource envelope, CETESB may need to direct its mission, strategies, and
budget to priority functions while other functions are phased out or transferred to local
governments and the private sector. The increasing number of fines and services CETESB
is generating since 1996 may provide the financial sustainability to the institutional
development achieved under this project.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2831-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    During the 1970s, awareness of the GSPMA as one of the world's most
polluted areas began to concern policy-makers. The large concentration of
industrial output in GSPMA and the heavy industrial complex in the Cubatao
Valley near the port of Santos had severely deteriorated environmental quality.
Air pollutant concentrations were reaching worrying levels, and the quality of
water resources was also being impacted by industrial and sewage discharges to
receiving water bodies.
2.    The Bank has been supporting Sao Paulo's pollution control efforts since
1971, beginning with Loans 757-BR and 758-BR associated with water pollution
in the sanitation sector and later with loans addressing industrial pollution
sources. The first loan, for the Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project
(Loan 1822-BR), was originally motivated by the need to encourage industrial
effluent pre-treatment in about 400 firms to safeguard the performance of the
planned biological treatment plants to be financed under another Bank loan (Loan
1525-BR). Upon the request of State authorities, the loan, as approved by the
Bank in 1980, was expanded in scope to include control of industrial emissions of
specific air pollutants (mainly particulate matter) in the GSPMA, and also
provided for the strengthening of CETESB, the State's environmental protection
agency. The loan funded PROCOP (Programa de Controle de Poluiqdo), as the
pollution control program is known in Brazil. PROCOP is an account of the
Basic Sanitation State Fund-FESB (hereafter denominated "the Fund").
PROCOP became the first free-standing environmental project supported by the
Bank in Latin America, and one of the initial loans through States.
3.    Loan 1822-BR was difficult to implement. Despite the slightly favorable
financial terms of the subloans compared to credit programs for equipment
purchases available at the time, the loan encountered very limited demand
because of the lengthy review and approval procedures, the severe recession
affecting firms' credit-worthiness, and the lack of consistent enforcement of
environmental regulations. In 1982-83, the loan was restructured, reducing the
loan amount from $58 million to $34 million; simplifying the approval
procedures; and, at CETESB's request, expanding the list of pollutants and area



of coverage to the entire State of Sao Paulo. When the Cubatao area became the
target of a politically visible clean-up effort supported by the highest level of
government and resulting in specific compliance agreements with about 20 finns,
demand for the loan accelerated, leading to full disbursements by December 31,
1986 (almost three years later than planned). The PPAR (Project Performance
Audit Report, April 1989) concluded that Project objectives were achieved and
that, beyond the physical targets of the project, there was a tremendous raising of
environmental consciousness in the State of Sao Paulo.
B. Project Design and Objectives
4.    The Second Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan 2831-BR) was a
second operation in the mold of the previously restructured loan, and was
intended to support a pollution management model which viewed credit for
pollution control as a flexible tool for CETESB's enforcement action. The new
loan introduced modifications to minimize subsidized lending rates and to speed
subproject review. In addition, Loan 2831-BR introduced a federal TA
component intended to help the nascent institutions at the federal level (SEMA,
later IBAMA) and other state environment agencies (SEPAs) in addressing
industrial pollution issues.
5.    As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Second Industrial
Pollution Control Project had two primary objectives:
a) to improve public health by further reducing air, water and solid waste
pollution within the State of Sao Paulo; and,
b) to strengthen SEMA and SEPAs, including CETESB, by developing these
agencies' operational and technical capabilities to design and implement long-
term industrial pollution control strategies and programs within their
jurisdictions.
6.    The project was structured in two parts: Part A for the State of Sao Paulo
and Part B, a federal component. The objectives of each part were as follows:
Pollution Control Component (Part A. 1): to finance subprojects by
industrial enterprises located in the State of Sao Paulo to reduce all types
of industrial pollution;
Technical Assistance (Part A.2): for institutional strengthening of
CETESB; and,
Federal Technical Assistance (Part B): to strengthen SEMA and SEPAs
other than CETESB.
7.    As shown in Table 7, the total estimated project cost at appraisal was
$100 million. Subprojects under Part A. l amounted to $88.8 million (the loan
could finance up to 50%). The cost of Part A.2 was $5.2 million financed in
equal shares by the loan and the State of Sao Paulo. The cost of Part B was $6
million to be financed in equal shares by the loan and the federal government. As



- 3 -
in the first loan, loan proceeds were channeled through BNDES, which acted as
the financial intermediary for the loan. BNDES transferred funds for Part A
through BADESP (which later transfer its functions to BANESPA) and to
SEMA (through UNDP as procurement agent) for Part B.
8.    CETESB and BANESPA implemented part A. 1; CETESB implemented
part A.2; and, SEMA implemented part B of the Project. CETESB's
responsibilities for part A. 1 consisted in reviewing and approving the technical
design of proposed subprojects and to certify adequate technical implementation.
BANESPA's responsibility was to evaluate the creditworthiness of borrowers
and to administer disbursements for approved subprojects.
9.    A clarification about the interpretation of the first objective (a) above is
warranted at this point. The only sensible measure of project performance for
that objective is the actual reduction of pollutant emissions from beneficiary
firms. While improving public health might have been a desired ultimate outcome
for the Project, it was far from attainable given the magnitude and complexity of
pollution problems in Sao Paulo and the small scale of the project2. From fixed
sources alone, 15,000 firms pollute Sao Paulo's air and water bodies compared
to the 61 firms that became beneficiaries of this loan. In addition, except for
Cubatao, industry is not the only or even the main polluter; the transport sector
contributes with 40% of the particulate matter emissions in the GSPMA, and
70% of the Tiete basin's organic pollution is associated with domestic sewage
discharges.
10.   In defining the air pollution problems of the GSPMA, the SAR indicated
that while measurements of sulfur dioxide had declined from the mid-i 970s to
the mid-i 980s due to the state's pollution control efforts, the concentrations of
particulate matter (PM) had not been reduced. As shown in Figure 1, this
situation continues to hold by the mid-1990s: the sulfur dioxide concentrations
are below the standard (40 Wg/m3); however, the applicable total suspended
particle standard of 80 4g/m3 is exceeded, particularly in Cubatao. Of even
greater concern is the bottom graph showing the high concentrations of particles
of small sizes (measuring less than 10 pm) which are inhalable and cause the
greatest health impacts. For comparison purposes, the EPA standard for PM-10
is 50 ag/m3.
11.    Annex 12 of the SAR contained specific environmental quality indicators
for Cubatao's airshed and main river, which were labeled as "Project
Performance Indicators." This was consistent with an expectation stated in the
SAR that about 70% of the loan would materialize in Cubatao, and can be
considered a progressive attempt to measure project development impact for a
project designed in the mid-1980s. However, only about 14% of investments
materialized in Cubatao (nine investments for air and two for water pollution
control) because COSIPA, the major subproject expected in the SAR for
2This type of far-reaching project objective and the lack of enviromnental quality indicators is
not uncommon in many Bank project with environment objectives.



Cubatao, became ineligible under federal law (discussed in detail in Section C).
Furthermore, since the loan was open to the entire State, these indicators for
Cubatao have little significance for the purposes of evaluating overall project
performance. Thus, for the purposes of this ICR, the pollution control objective
of this loan is interpreted as reduction of pollutant emissions from industries by
encouraging investment in pollution control in the State of Sao Paulo.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
12.   Part A of the loan experienced implementation difficulties during certain
periods, with recovery during other periods. These implementation difficulties
caused two extensions of the closing date and resulted in 12% of the loan amount
to remain undisbursed. Despite the delays, the project was able to largely attain
the objectives of Part A by contributing to the reduction of pollutant emissions in
103 investment subprojects and by maintaining and improving CETESB's
capacity as an environmental agency. Part B of the project had serious
difficulties from the start due to numerous institutional changes at SEMA (later
EBAMA) and poor cooperation with state environment agencies. The objectives
of this component were not achieved.
13.   The implementation difficulties of Part A, affecting 94 percent of the loan
amount, can be traced to three problem stages of implementation:
*  from Effectiveness to October 1989. Commitments did not materialize due
to insufficient pipeline preparation and risk analysis during appraisal,
inefficient subproject processing, lack of enforcement, and unfavorable
macroeconomic conditions for borrowing;
* from October 1989 to May 1992. The Federal Government interrupted
disbursements of federally guaranteed loans to the State of Sao Paulo due to
indebtedness issues, causing interruption in processing of subprojects and
uncertainty as to when the program could continue;
• Year 1994. The State Treasury blocked transfers from the loan to
BANESPA, instructing it to instead use resources of the State Pollution
Fund. When the Pollution Fund was depleted, BANESPA stopped
disbursement to subprojects under implementation which ultimately caused
some subproject cancellations.



- 5 -
Figure 1: Environmental Quality Indicators for GSPMA and Cubatao
90L
bao
40.0
gao
24OO
3G0.
10.0
618   384  85  88  87  88  89  90  91  92  9    49
- RMSP -_- Cubatlo --- Cub.-V. Pftisi 
-Evdu5Jo das concentra6oas de di6xido do enxofre na RMSP a
Cubatlo - Re Automitca.
240 
40
83  84   8s  88  8a  88  8e   9   91  9a  93   9   95
AND
+-oC tb  *am      0-Cub  .Poisi   --  RMSP
Evolu;io des concentragoOs do particulas totais am suspefnso na
RlSP * Cubaato.
Puliaton  pags 26_,28
**~~~~~~~~~~.....  .. _  ... .........,
"  ,  ........  sk  ,                _      c      _~~~... .....
26....  ....    .  ....................               .
*I   2  83     ea  is  s7 ST    n   o 91  02  n3          Of
AM
r--^Cu~~n~~Cb. V PIt
EvolugJo das concentrag6 s de particulas inalv is na RMSP c
Cubaft.
Source: Relatonio de Qualidade de Ar no Esao  de Sao Paulo - 1995 CETESB
Publication, pages 26-28



- 6 -
14.   Pollution Control Component. Despite the delays and implementation difficulties
during the above periods, the project improved from June 1992 up to December 1993,
when full commitments were achieved. In addition, disbursements improved after 1994. By
closing, the loan had supported 103 investment subprojects in 61 firms which reduced air
pollution (27 subprojects), water pollution (69 subprojects, mainly within the Tiete basin),
and improved waste disposal (7 subprojects). Some subprojects were canceled as a result
of the interruptions in the flow of funds; these subprojects were not fully replaced by new
ones which is reflected in 12% of the loan amount canceled by closing date. The subproject
beneficiaries, type of industry, and pollutant load reductions associated with these
subprojects have been recorded as part of this ICR and are available in the Project File.
Four additional subprojects did not attain their reduction objectives because the plant closed
down or the process was discontinued (pollution also ceased). In one such case, an
enterprise entered into bankruptcy which prevented further disbursements on that
subproject. In terms of the distribution of funds by region, 14% was absorbed by Cubatao,
39% by the GSPMA with Santos, and 47% in other regions of the State.
15.   Beneficiary Assessment. To further evaluate the usefulness of Loan 2831 -BR in
supporting the PROCOP program from the perspective of beneficiaries, the Bank
contracted a consulting firm to interview 60 polluting firms in Sao Paulo during the months
of November and December of 1996. In addition to obtaining feedback on the
implementation of the program, the Bank was interested in drawing conclusions about the
effectiveness of directed credit as an instrument for pollution management. From the
beneficiary assessment described in detail below, it can be concluded that the credit program
leveraged more investment in pollution control in large firms, that would otherwise have
invested only the minimum required to avoid CETESB's enforcement actions. In addition,
the credit program facilitated investment by medium and small firms that would otherwise
have resisted investing. In both groups of firms, CETESB's enforcement actions were
ranked by firms as the primary motivating factor for considering investment in pollution
control.
16.   The specific goals of the beneficiary assessment were to conduct a with/without
credit comparison of:
a) the main motivating factors for investing in pollution control;
b) how PROCOP compared with other financing sources;
c) whether credit made any measurable difference in investment decisions; and
d) how the beneficiaries of PROCOP evaluated the implementation of the credit program.
17.   Sample Composition. The sample consisted of two groups of 30 firms each:
PROCOP-participants and non-participants. A participant was defined as a firm that had
reached the point of presenting a technical project to CETESB3; the sample was arranged
so that interviewees could report their opinions about the different stages of approval,
including a perspective from firms which applied for credit but did not ultimately obtain
3 A firm interested in obtaining a loan from PROCOP had to: (a) present a Carta Consulta , i.e., a brief
profile of the project and the firm's financial aptitude to qualify for a loan, (b) hire consultants or prepare
the technical project for presentation to CETESB; (c) obtain CETESB's approval (judged using best
available technology and lowest cost technology criteria); and (d) obtain credit approval from BANESPA.



- 7 -
approval. This first group of 30 PROCOP-participant firms, selected mostly on the basis of
availability of firm staff that could recount the firm's experience with the PROCOP (in its
1988-96 phase), was comprised of:
* 15 firms that received loans from PROCOP (out of a total universe of 61 firms);
* 15 firms that had been rejected (3 in the technical review and 12 in the financial review)
18.   The second group of 30 non-participants was selected in part from CETESB's list
of polluting firms (from regional control offices) and at random within the same industrial
subsectors (namely, galvanoplasty/metallurgy, sugar/alcohol, textiles,
fertilizers/agroindustry, chemical), and consisted of
* 22 firms that did not approach PROCOP at all;
* eight firms that had some contact with PROCOP (two received but did not submit the
Carta Consulta, four passed the Carta review by BANESPA but did not present a
technical project, and two that were rejected at the Carta stage).
19.   In addition, the entire set of 60 firms was classified into small, medium, and large
according to annual sales volume, as shown below:
Firm's Annual Sales ($ millions)  Number of PROCOP II  Number of Non-Participants
Participants
Large: over $50                      20                         6
Medium: between $5 and $50            5                         18
Small: less than $5                   5                         6
Of note is that the two main groups of firms in the sample did not exactly match the
distribution by size. This was not possible primarily because of the difficulty of finding
interviewees who knew about the program during the relevant period (1988-96), and of
finding non-participants willing to devote time to the interview.
20.   Main Motivating Factors for Investing in Pollution Control. The majority of firms in
both samples (83% of interviewees) ranked CETESB's enforcement action as the principal
motivating actions for investing in pollution control. In particular, a group of firms
interviewed located within the area of influence of the Tiete clean-up project reported that
CETESB's stringent enforcement action required, in their opinion, shorter compliance
timetables for industry than it took to obtain a loan from PROCOP. This is an interesting
lesson about the disconnect between enforcement actions and the credit instrument, which
in part may be explained by the relative isolation of the PROCOP program in CETESB's
organization --formerly linked to the Presidency and later as dependent on Administration
and quite separated from enforcement functions (see implementation feedback below). A
secondary motivating factor cited by firms in both samples was the existence of a corporate
environmental policy (about 40% of respondents in both samples), although this was more
evident in the larger firms.
21.   Comparison of PROCOP with Other Financing Sources. Before applying for a loan,
participant firms compared PROCOP with four main financing sources: own resources,



- 8 -
other government credit lines, private banks, and export credit from foreign banks linked to
equipment purchases. The main advantage of PROCOP as seen by firms was its longer
grace and loan repayment periods and the technical assistance provided by CETESB. The
main disadvantage cited was the financial guarantees required by PROCOP (seven firms
ranked this aspect as a "minus", compared to only three firms that ranked "minus" for the
interest rate). Non-participants primarily financed its pollution control resources with own
resources (27 firms), and a few (five firms) also used BNDES's credit program.
Interestingly, despite the more favorable financial conditions of the official credit programs
compared to private banks or own resources, firms indicated that bureaucracy and lack of
understanding of the credit program by bank agencies discouraged them from using these
lines. This indicates that the transaction costs for firms was a significant factor in deciding
to apply for credit.
22.   The Influence of Credit in Investment Decisions. PROCOP encouraged large firms
in the sample to invest higher volumes than large non-participant firms (10 of 14 invested
more in the group of participants vs. two of six in non-participants). On the lower range of
the investment and size scale, small firms participating in PROCOP ( two of five) invested
more than the $100,000 minimum, whereas all of the small non-participating firms invested
below $100,000. Medium firms in both groups were equally distributed by investment
scale. Although the sample size is small and further segmentation may render these
numbers of even smaller significance, the conclusion that credit facilitated larger
investments in larger firms is intuitively consistent and was mentioned in interviews with
large firms. For small firms, CETESB' s action without credit means that they will prefer to
invest the bare minimum, which means that the agency would require extensive efforts to
achieve full compliance with environmental regulations.
23.   Feedback from Beneficiaries on Ir_plementation Performance. Overall, 14% of
participating firms evaluated PROCOP as highly satisfactory, 50% as satisfactory, 16% as
less than satisfactory, and 20% as not satisfactory. The participation process, from
technical review to disbursements, was ranked by these interviewees. Firms representing
49% of respondents (27 firms), indicated that CETESB's technical review process was
ranked "reasonable", with the balance indicating that the review process was
"unreasonable" (this was a subjective measure left to respondents to judge). As for the
credit approval by BANESPA, 54% of respondents to this question (26 firms) indicated that
the review process was "bad", 23% indicated it was "normal", and an equal share of
respondents indicated the review process was "good". Although these responses indicate
relative unhappiness of these firms concerning the efficiency of the program, it is important
to recognize that not all firms in the sample normally use credit as a financing source
(particularly the medium and small firms). The scrutiny required for creditworthiness
assessment may be unfamiliar to this group of firmns.
24.   Despite the relative unhappiness about how the program was implemented, when
asked whether PROCOP was useful, 93% of all firms indicated that the existence of credit
programs is extremely useful and necessary because investments in pollution abatement are
considered expenses (non-productive investments). Using the firm's working capital as a
financing source for pollution control is perceived as extremely unfavorable to financial



- 9 -
health. This may be explained by PROCOP's predominant preference for financing end-of-
pipe solutions which rarely result in any financial return.
25.   When asked about suggestions to improve the program, firms offered the following
points, in order of frequency:
*  disseminate the program more widely;
*  introduce a large number of financial intermediaries/agents;
establish differentiated conditions for small and medium firms;
increase the fee paid to intermediaries;
devise a more effective program monitoring system;
expedite review and approval processes;
make guarantees less onerous;
*  train bank agencies and decentralize the approval process;
*  give longer compliance periods to pernit process modification and not just end-of-pipe
solutions.
26.   CETESB Technical Assistance. The objectives of CETESB's Institutional
Strengthening Component were for the most part achieved, although the interruption in the
flow of funds described in detail in section C and initial procurement difficulties delayed
certain elements of the component. This component was intended as a continuation of the
earlier project's institutional component (Loan 1822-BR), which also included transfers to
CETESB for monitoring equipment, training, and studies. The support under Loan 2831-
BR was conceived during the last stages of the former loan (early 1980s), and reflected the
views and priorities of CETESB at that time. This component consisted of 14 institutional
strengthening projects, which can be classified into three categories:
*  acquisition of specialized monitoring and laboratory analysis equipment for air and
water quality monitoring;
*  research and application studies in the areas of biological and toxic waste treatment; risk
assessment and cost-benefit analysis; and
*  training of staff from CETESB and industry in various pollution control topics.
27.   The results and developmental impact of these projects are summarized in Table 6
(Part II). The projects were intended to strengthen the technical and scientific
underpinnings of CETESB's industrial pollution control capacity (mainly in the
Environmental Engineering, and Technology Development and Transfer groups), in the field
of environmental analysis (developing laboratory capabilities, in terms both of
instrumentation and of methodology), in development of technological capability (waste
treatment, disposal and soil contamination evaluation), in monitoring and diagnosis of
environmental quality (particularly air quality), and in risk assessment and prevention of
environmental accidents.
28.   Considerable progress was made in areas such as: monitoring air quality; evaluation
of environmental risk; and analysis of toxic and mutagenic substances spilled into the State's
waterways. In these fields, new norms, procedures and regulations were drawn up, and
data bases were established for support to decision-making, particularly for air pollution and
accident prevention. Partial progress was achieved on themes such as: industrial odor



- 10-
control, industrial waste and soil contamination. On these subjects, significant advances
were made at the level of technical and technological knowledge; however, little progress
was made in implementing new norms and procedures. Finally, the case for introducing
cost-benefit evaluation to industrial pollution control strategies had limited progress by loan
closing. As a result, very little can be said about the introduction of economic
considerations to pollution management.
29.   On an overall basis, this component helped maintain CETESB's capacity which
could have declined after the personnel and budgetary reductions that have occurred in the
past few years. The agency remains as a respected institution in Latin America, a reputation
that rests on the technical quality and commitment of its staff and the State's efforts to
remain in the forefront of pollution management in Brazil.
30.   Federal Technical Assistance. This component was to be implemented by SEMA
and was intended to support: purchase of equipment for laboratories and monitoring
programs; diagnostic studies to determine the nature and extent of industrial pollution
problems in the other states and recommend control strategies; an assessment of local
training resources; training programs to develop the capabilities of SEMA and the other
SEPAs; assistance to SEMA for development of appropriate incentives for investments in
pollution control. This component suffered difficulties from the beginning and only
minimally achieved its objectives by financing $600,000 of monitoring equipment. The
limited progress and bleak prospects for improvement prompted the Bank to allow this
component to close by June 30, 1994. This component did not succeed because of the
constant leadership and associated project management changes at IBAMA, which were
compounded by weak institutional capacity and limited priority attached at the time to
assisting states in pollution management.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
31.   As stated in para. 13, the project suffered difficulties in three stages of
implementation (from effectiveness to October 1989; from October 1989 to May 1992, and
during 1994), affecting 94 percent (Part A) of the loan amount. The effect of these problem
stages can be seen graphically in the haphazard pattern of commitments and disbursements
as shown below.



Disbursement by Semester (US$ million)                Number of Projects Approved
36.                                              7
30                                               6
6 O
26.
4-
20.                                              3
15                                               2 -
10S  11
Pi                                               0
co  a)    CD    CW    N 1 Cw40 4
0                       .      .   .~                              ~   ~   
Be    90    92    94    96                       4  04  N-  4  CN  04  C4  N1  N
32.   The main factors contributing to each of the problem stages are as follows:
Stage 1
Poor pipeline identification and appraisal. In its SAR, the Bank presented a potential pipeline
of 23 subproject accounting for about US$70 million in investments (the equivalent of 79% of
the loan if financed at 50%), of which 650/o4 was accounted for by a single subloan to a then
state-owned enterprise (COSIPA). The latter never materialized as the Federal Government
issued regulations limiting financial exposure of public banks to State-owned enterprises. Of
the remaining pipeline, only eight projects were analyzed by CETESB and a smaller subset of
these firms requested BANESPA's preliminary credit analysis. Only four of these subprojects
were financed by the Loan. The pipeline was a prospective list and no prior technical or
financial analysis was conducted by appraisal.
*  Slow/inefficient subproject processing and limited enforcement. The performance of
CETESB and BANESPA was unsatisfactory in Stage 1 because technical reviews and
financial evaluations were lengthy. In addition, CETESB's decision to split the program's
coordination between two separate offices also contributed to delays in subproject processing;
macroeconomic instability (high inflation and interest rates) during this period and the relative
weakening of CETESB's enforcement also contributed to limited demand for the financing of
pollution control.
Stages 2 and 3
Fiscal Constraints Beyond the Project's Control. The difficulties associated with Stages 2 and
3 were the result of indebtedness and cash flow crises facing the State that were beyond the
control of the executing agencies (CETESB and BANESPA). The risk of Sao Paulo reaching
a debt limit with the Federal Government could have been anticipated by the Bank.
4The Project File includes the identified pipeline showing COSIPA's investment at $44.4 million compared to a
total identified pipeline of $68.2 million.



- 12 -
33.   Excluding these problem stages, the project enjoyed only two periods of uninterrupted
flow of loan funds: from June 1992 through the end of 1993 and from January 1995 through June
1996. The loan was fully committed by the end of 1993 due to the significant effort expended to
achieve this goal. CETESB had improved the management of subproject processing, significantly
reducing the average processing time. CETESB completed technical approvals for 151 projects
of which 103 received funding. BANESPA also supported the efficiency gains of that period.
34.   The overall effects of the interruptions in the flow of funds on the condition of the part of
the pipeline proved difficult to overcome. Given the uncertainty about funds availability, CETESB
and BANESPA could not promote the program prior to June 1992 and during 1994. Borrowers
which needed to make payments declined to use the approved credit, and instead used other
financing sources. In view of this situation, CETESB prepared a back-up pipeline to replace
those subprojects. However, BANESPA was unable fully to approve all these subprojects due to
creditworthiness considerations, pending payment disputes with BANESPA, and legal
5
requirements which some firms could not comply with5. Thus, the new commitments were
insufficient to offset these cancellations, which resulted in 12% of the loan remaining undisbursed
by the closing date.
35.   The above problem phases also affected Part A.2 (CETESB's TA component), since
funds for CETESB also flowed through BANESPA. In addition to this factor, two
implementation difficulties can be noted. First, equipment acquisition suffered delays due to
difficulties in the (international) procurement and importation procedures. Second, the project
associated with skills development suffered from the instability of the institutional structure --
CETESB had nine different structures between 1987 and 1996, which made difficult the
continuity of staff assignments to training and study plans; delays in identifying an agile agent for
reimbursement of relatively small but numerous expenditures; and the lack of a human resource
development strategy that could have clearly defined the type and scope of training needed by
CETESB's staff
36.   The objectives of Part B were minimally achieved, as this component was closed in June
1994 with only $600,000 of the $2.4 million disbursed. In 1989, SEMA was replaced by
IBAMA. That same year the Bank requested the legal opinion of the Procurador Geral da
Fazenda about the rights and obligations of IBAMA regarding the contractual agreement between
SEMA and the Bank under the loan, however, this was only obtained in 1991. Further delays
were introduced as IBAMA's new leadership requested the Bank to abandon the original idea of
hiring a principal consultant (which was expected to be CETESB) that would have subcontracted
other consultants for carrying out the TA tasks. There was also limited progress in assessing the
needs of other states and no progress at all in developing national ambient standards. IBAMA's
leadership also changed several times, bringing new project coordinators on board. The only
measurable result was the purchase of laboratory equipment for SEPAs which accounted for the
$600,000 disbursed through UNDP. In view of the limited progress obtained and the bleak
Beginning in 1994, all official banks were required to verify that applicants were up-to-date with tax and social
charges (e.g., INSS) before considering credit applications. BANESPA rejected some applications on these
grounds and on the basis of pending payments with other credit programs.



- 13 -
outlook for improvement, the Bank recommended cancellation of this component by the original
closing date of June 1994.
E. Bank Performance
37.   The Bank was deficient in preparing the pipeline of prospective subprojects at appraisal
and in analyzing the risks of the loan. These risks included the heavy reliance on one subproject
(COSIPA) for identified demand, and the State of Sao Paulo's debt position vis-a-vis the federal
government. In addition, the Bank could have prepared during appraisal clearer guidelines on
how industrial solid waste issues would be treated under the project, considering that landfill and
incineration capacity was and continues to be extremely limited in the State. Approval of a
number of water pollution subprojects (which removed organic and toxic pollutants from liquid
effluents but captured them as solid waste) was delayed because the Bank required add-on plans
for waste storage and disposal as a condition of disbursement. Finally, limited supervision
budgets reduced the Bank's direct supervision of completed subprojects and, coupled with the
disbursement lags suffered by implementation delays, caused task managers to give more priority
to improving disbursement performance.
38.   Overall Bank performance was satisfactory during supervision. Bank staff played a pro-
active role in helping CETESB review the adequacy of the technical solutions proposed by
applicants and in assisting with implementation of the Technical Assistance component under Part
A.2, including procurement and disbursement aspects. The Bank also facilitated simplification of
subproject processing and participated in discussions with the State finance authorities in early
1995 to highlight the importance of resuming the flow of funds to PROCOP. There were two
gaps in supervision: from December 1990 to June 1992 and from June 1994 to March 1995. The
former is explained by the interruption in the flow of funds which lead to no project activity
during the period, and the latter is explained by mission scheduling difficulties associated with the
change of the project's Task Manager6.
F. Borrower Performance
39.   The Borrower of this loan was the Federative Republic of Brazil with BNDES acting as its
financial agent. Since BNDES's functions were carried out satisfactorily, this section focuses on
the performance of the implementing agencies: for Part A (State of Sao Paulo component)
CETESB and BANESPA; and, for Part B (federal component) IBAMA. These agencies' s overall
performance is considered unsatisfactory during preparation and implementation. Preparation
was deficient for the same reasons explained above for poor Bank performance (limited pipeline
preparation and risk evaluation). Implementation was affected by the performance of Sao Paulo's
Treasury in charge of overall financial management and by the agencies in charge of project
management (CETESB and BANESPA for Part A and IBAMA for Part B). The most serious
difficulties affecting the bulk of the loan amount were caused by the State's poor fiscal and
financial management which indirectly resulted in interruptions in the flow of funds to PROCOP
(from October 1989 to May 1992 and during 1994), and adversely affected the prospects of full
6 The loan was initially supervised by the staff member who prepared it and subsequently was supervised by two
Task Managers.



- 14 -
loan disbursements. Since preparation and review of subprojects involved a lead time for
CETESB and BANESPA, these interruptions caused uncertainties resulting in some subloan
cancellations, and prevented further promotion of the credit program. As for the performance of
the project management agencies, CETESB's reorganizations in the early stage and uneven
attention to a focused enforcement policy contributed to low initial demand. However, CETESB
and BANESPA had significantly recovered by mid- 1992, thereafter identified and reviewed new
subprojects for PROCOP to achieve full commitment by end-1993. CETESB performed
particularly well during the critical stage after the 1994 blockage of funds identifying a back-up
pipeline to offset cancellations. Finally, IBAMA's performance was highly unsatisfactory for Part
B of the loan as constant changes in project coordination and poor cooperation with other state
environment agencies resulted in this component's cancellation in June 1994.
G. Assessment of Outcome and Future Operation
40.   PROCOP may be sustainable if BANESPA continues to exercise prudent credit
management (especially collection) and as long as CETESB continues the monitoring of
subproject implementation. The latter is likely since it forms part of CETESB's legal
responsibility as coordinator of PROCOP. CETESB may need to select priority pollution
problems to channel PROCOP's resources to more strategic objectives, considering that available
funds are now lower and fluctuate according to the pattern of repayments. Although no plan of
operation was required in the loan agreement or mentioned in the SAR, discussions held with
CETESB indicate that PROCOP is likely to continue to support investments in pollution control,
introducing modifications to improve attractiveness to small firms (the subloans are proposed to
finance up to 85% of investments).
41.   The sustainability of the TA component depends on CETESB's ability to retain its
qualified staff by competitively rewarding good performance and by allocating a portion of its
budget to maintenance of the assets purchased under the loan. The loan included a clause for the
transfer of one percent of the balance of outstanding subloans to be paid to CETESB as
commission for supervision, which helps the agency defray recurring costs. However, concerning
investments, this loan, and to lesser degree other donors, has provided over a number of years the
greater part of CETESB's investment budget in research, technological and analytical capacity,
and human resource development. The fiscal austerity prevailing in the State is unlikely to favor
investment in these areas and; thus, within the same or even decreasing resource envelope,
CETESB may need to direct its mission, strategies, and budget to priority functions while other
functions are phased out or transferred to local governments and the private sector. The
increasing number of fines and services CETESB is generating since 1996 may provide the
financial sustainability for the institutional development achieved under this project.
H. Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned
42.   Considering the project as an aid to CETESB's state-wide enforcement effort and as a
source of funding for institutional development, the main findings of this project are:
The project would have benefited from better pipeline preparation by appraisal: the Bank
should have recognized the risk of approving a loan with 70% of its identified pipeline



- 15 -
dependent on a single subloan to a state company particularly since the law limiting official
bank exposure to debt from state enterprises was known prior to loan approval.
The project needed performance indicators commensurate to the objectives that were feasible
to be achieved: the project scope and coverage was so small compared to the scale of
pollution problems in Sao Paulo that measurable environmental quality or public health
objectives were unattainable. Other indicators, such as the impact of credit as an aid to
enforcement actions, speed of subproject processing, additional investment leveraged, etc.
could have been more adequate performance measures of the project's development impact.
* The experience of low demand from the previous loan was not fully internalized in project
design: the importance of coordinating enforcement strategy and credit use as witnessed with
the recovery of disbursements of Loan 1822-BR in Cubatao was not fully acknowledged in
project design;
*  Project risks were not fully recognized: the potential impact of Sao Paulo's increasing debt
with the Federal Government in a loan through a federal intermediary (BNDES) should have
been recognized at appraisal;
* The TA component for CETESB was successful although its full potential was not achieved:
the project helped maintain CETESB's technical and scientific resource base within the
pollution management strategy prevailing since the 1970s; however, its full potential was not
achieved due to organizational changes and CETESB's tendency to isolate the program from
strategic decision-making regarding enforcement actions.
43.   The project offers the following lessons:
Define specific environmental quality objectives: link enforcement actions and performance
indicators more closely: the project expected to improve environmental quality in Cubatao
since 70% of the pre-identified pipeline was located in that area; however, the loan was used
state-wide. The overall effect was a dispersion of the environmental benefits. Future projects
should target specific priority pollutants within saturated regions of the State, develop a
management strategy that includes all sources (not just industry), agree on pollution
abatement targets and penalties for non-compliance, and disclose progress towards the
achievements of the targets.
* Use credit more selectively: Credit may be an useful tool for enforcement actions in targeted
areas because it can help neutralize polluters' claims about the financial costs of pollution
control; however, administration difficulties and transaction costs to firms should be fully
recognized.
* Recognize coverage limitations of credit: since larger firms tend to be the main beneficiaries of
credit, policy-makers may need to justify politically the allocation of credit to those firms.
Technically, this may be warranted if these firms represent an important share of pollution and
access to long-term credit improves the prospect of faster compliance with agreed targets.
* Recognize other forms of assistance: firms (particularly medium and small enterprises)
appreciated the technical advice and information on pollution control technologies they
received from CETESB. This assistance, particularly on low-cost housekeeping and
maintenance programs may enhance their ability to reduce pollution.



- 16 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2831)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial     Partial      Negligible  Not applicable
(1)           (V')          (V')           (V")
Macro Policies                      LI             [IIE
Sector Policies                     LII            LI]           FII            [II
Financial Objectives                 LI            LII            [             F
Institutional Development            LI                          FI                 IZ
Physical Objectives                 FII            E             LI              II
Poverty Reduction                                  LI            FI]            ZI
Gender Issues                        LI            LI            LI I
Other Social Objectives              LI            El             LI            [
Environmental Objectives             LI            [             FII            LI
Public Sector Management            LI             LI             L I
Private Sector Development          FI             LI            FII            E



- 17 -
Table 1. Summary of Assessments (Continued)
B. Project Sustainabilitv                Likely            Unlikely         Uncertain
(1)              (V)                (1)
C. Bank Perfornance                Hieh-v Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
(i)              (V)                 0/
Appraisal                             FI ]                                 2
Supervision                           L3I                                   0
D. Borrower Performance            Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
(V        ()                        (V)
Preparation                           FII                 E                  I
Implementation                                                            E II
Covenant Compliance                   L                                    LE
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highlv                                             Hiyhlv
Satisfactory     Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
0,')            (V)               V)              (V)
-I              EFI                              -I
For project management
2 For financial management by the State.
3 This reflects overall compliance of the project on the most significant components.



- 18 -
Table 2. Related Bank Loans
Project Title/                 Purpose                  Year       Status
Loan No.                                           Approved
Preceding Operations
1. Sao Paulo Pollution   (i) to improve the air and water    1980       Closed
Control Project.       quality standards in the GSPMA,
(Ln. 1822-BR)          by reducing industrial pollution,
and (ii) to train CETESB's staff
to carry out the enforcement
program.
Following Operations
1. National Industrial   (i) to improve public health and    1992      Ongoing
Pollution Control      living conditions of population in
Project.              impacted areas; (ii) to strengthen
(Ln. 3480-BR)          institutional and monitoring
capability of SEPAs; and (iii) to
familiarize banking system with
financing of free-standing
pollution control investments.
Table 3. Project Timetable
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle       Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                                                 JULY- 1986
Appraisal                                                   AUGUST-1986
Negotiations                                                05-MAY- 1987
Board Presentation                                          09-JUN-1987
Loan Signing                                                27-JUL-1987
Loan Effectiveness                    26-NOV-1987          1 -JUL-1988
Loan Closing                          30-JUN-1994           30-JUN-1996
Project Completion                                          30-JUN-1996



- 19-
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year    Appraisal Estimate          Actual       Actual as % of
Estimate
1988                    1.5               5.0            333
1989                  10.0               12.0            120
1990                  21.5               12.0             56
1991                  33.0               12.0             36
1992                  41.5               15.5             37
1993                  47.0               20.9             44
1994                  50.0               26.9             54
1995                                     39.3             79
1996                                    43.5*             87
Final Disbursement:  November 1996
* CETESB's comments to this ICR indicate a discrepancy in the undisbursed balance for one of the
loan's categories (Part A. 1). The difference is explained by the exchange rate variations imbedded in
the currency pool system used by the Bank to value disbursements. This was explained to the
Borrower (CETESB. BANESPA, and BNDES) in a separate communication.



- 20 -
Table 5a. Key Indicators of Project Implementation
I. Indicators in SAR (Annex 12)           Estimated                Actual
1. Part A
Air and water quality in    See explanation in Part I,
Cubatao                     paras. 9-11; these indicators
are not appliacable
2. Part B: SEMA
1988-91               by closing
Number of trainees
Number of seminars                     510                     0
Expenditures (US$000)                  22                      0
Diagnostic studies
Equipment & Purchases               430                      0
Training program                    3,200                   600
2,370                    0
3. Parts A and B
Loan commitments
1988:
1989:             15                      0
1990:             15                      7
1991:             20                      0
1992:                                     3
1993:                                    4.6
33.0
Loan disbursements
(see Table 4)
H. Other indicators
(not included in SAR)
1. See Table 5b and Table 6



- 21 -
Table 5b. Indicators of Project Implementation (Part A.2)
(Results of CETESB Human Resources Technical Training Project T- 11)
PERFORMANCE PER YEAR
1987   |   1988   |   1989   |  1990   1  1991   |   1992   |   1993   |  1994   |   1995   |   1996             - TOTAL
Regular cour_s_                  10          1      _8   25         22    ; 20             1_6 1_3                11                                135
Special courses                   -          -      _ 3             6          7           5          13          2                      -          36
National consultants2            4          24          22          18         39          34         33          13          -          3          190
Foreign consultants                                      4          4           4                      5          1           2          18         38
Academic grants (MS)             4           -           5          1           1                -           I    -           -          -          11
Short term grants 3              2           3233_5                                                               4           9          12         43
Seminars and symposiums           I          -           1          I                -                 -          -           -          5           8
Technical meetings4              2                       2          6           3          2           6          5           6          13         45
I JDW AC flC   ?4ATERML4__          _    __    _     __    _     __    ___                   _     __   _  __                   __     _  _   _  _   _
Printed materials5                3          5           4          1           -          1           I          -                                 15
Printed maters for courses        3          4          30          29         25          44         29          35            _                   199
Videos                            2          2           2          2           I                                                                 _         9
Acquisition of publications6     90          58         46          75         23         182         48          23         44          60         649
Source: Relat6rio A 15s. Reuniao do Conselho de Orientacao do Fundo Estadual de Saneamento - FESAN, Subconta PROCOP.
Notes:
1. Part of the agenda of courses regularly offered by CETESB. After 1994 these courses - as well as the special courses - became supported by another human resources
development project funded through the Art. 19 arrangement.
2. Were usually associated with CETESB's regular courses supported by PROCOP.
3. Usually as technical visits to firms and public institutions abroad.
4. Usually offered by CETESB staff receiving short term scholarships.
5. Includes books (5), technical brochures (7) and manuals (3).
6. Available at CETESB's library.



- 22 -
Table 6. Impact of Studies Included in Project (Part A.2)
. a =1 L !_.]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  . ....... .
T"       Tr 0eatmnt & Disposal of nd0Ustral Waste0   Determine aeptable conditionsunder wh ich             Helped detvlopi tsing methods for ptetiTlayers used i              t
.. ....                              ~~~~~~~~~inidustrialt or hazadous wastes cani be:cO-dispose  landfils; however, this area lacks regulation (Decree, 846S176 is uner-
with. nnc-pal ~waste                                 reie)
7-02      Hydro eooig Evaluation $of Sits             Find canmidat sites i GSPMA forindustrial wastet ]0Two ars ident   as poteia  it es;           ever,             f    ys
:tt 000044000 fAvaiablefor ustralWaste WDisoslM    t landsa  of 550,00tnfy of wast oinly 390 SEQ are n0ed   tor avance i thisare.
7-ifff03 SSSyUse of Soil fo Treatm ti& Disposal         sea of  Research m ent of hazardous waste by laI-ii    Tw omsdevelopd   icludig the dt   iati  ofbiod    dability o
Solid: diustrial Waste                       .      m      s to establish standardsfor soil       themicatl ompqsitions; trang seminarswere also  feted t inustr.
hazardous~ wastei compatibilit.
00 ;  Evaluation jof ToxicityMut genicty of          Characterize bodiegsbofwatet receiving significant     Six Technical Norms for water testing (toxici  tand   agenicit 3aand an
f :;0ttofa.Receiving Waters in theSaof Sao 1: v :   6f        tolumes of toxic and'tagenic waste; t propse  a    expaned   onitorngof water   iy proposed and now. unde dussion 
Paulo                           mo~~~~~~~~~~~~nitring programd with udated mthods to detect   with muicipaitis
r05f  Control Alternatives for Indus trial O0dor     Develo  guidelines fir od   cont  fo                         otr     a     s       lere nwe                             ihed
7-06     Evaluation & Prevention of Inusttial R&isk assesmentof sixindustries of Cubato,                    Onlyo   indus  agreed to ith    iy iki Carbid) however, two
Accidents in: C~Ubatao                      rgdigtesoag  of chlorine,~ ammonia,                   manuals were. developed (guidance for risk anlsis studie~sand methodolog
... ... .. .iqefedproan.gs.ndflammable liquid and                             for clasiyigindustrial hazards) which are nowyusedfor the licensing
polystyrene & methanol production.                    process.
7-07     Cost-Benefit Aalysistfor Pollution          Agsess the fMll cost incurred. in the GSPMA and        Data gatheing phase failed; team working on project   transferred. to other
;!0; 0 0; ji;00tControl 00 S; 0  ; 0       f     Cubatao due to pollution using control costs, and  areas only part of the projet omp]eted (bibliographical review, training,
developing damage functions for ptiority pollutants,   draft methodology for relatig air poution to death rates).
7-08    kDvelopment and Improvementmof               Modemize CETESB laboratory, introducing                Technical Norms developed for analytical methodologies; certification
Analytical Methods for Water Pollution      innovations in insttumentation and methodologies.     system for water pollution control laboratories to come on-line in 1998.
Contro)lt  :)    
T-09      Laboratoryvfor Air Pollution Control       Consolidate laboratory for calibrating chimney         CETESH now offers calibration services to 240 firtms engaged in verifying
samling for certifying air pollution control         efficiency of dust controls.
equipment.
7-10     Techn ical Support for Pollution Control    14;Prepare    ifc guidlines for industrial pollution to   fleven technical norms developed including iron and steel smelting
Activities                      ~~~~~~~~~Support enforcement units.                    guidelines.
T-nI2 y;;jt ;j0tAir Pollution Monitoring Network      Upgraed thepolutant coverage and data,                increased the number of readings and pollutants measured. Allows more
Transmissionan  processing  systemofonitoring         precise analysis of diagnosis and definitiottof cont strategies.to 
network (25 fixed and 2 mobile stations) 
7-30 :: :: Aerosol Characterization ithe              Characterize size and type of particles :(aerosols)   Identified transport sector as significant contribution todair pollution and
Metrpolitan area of Sao  ao  :          i  fr:omi SPMA and assessy sources: of emissions and      helped shift attention to vehicle emissions; upgraded skills of aerosols
:contribution to air pollution:                       laboratory staff; aerosols were characterized by source and by size.
7-1: 40f;;: 0Management System Wtof wup l the        Create al data base ;for the physical ; and financial  Delayed and only recovered after 1992 when a database was putin place.
PROCOP;   :a  ;;           : f              monitoring of the PROCOP program



- 23 -
Table 7. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Item                   Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate
Local   Foreign            Local  Foreign
Costs    Costs    Total   Costs   Costs   Total
Part A
Pollution Control Subprojects   62.4      26.4     88.8     57.1    24.0      81.1
Technical Assistance to CETESB   2.6       2.6      5.2      2.6      2.3      4.9
Subtotal                        65.0      29.0     94.0     59.7    26.3      86.0
Part B
Technical Assistance to SEMA and  3.0      3.0      6.0      3.0      0.6      3.6
SEPAs other than CETESB
Total Project Costs             68.0      32.0    100.0     62.7    26.9    89.6
B. Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Item                 Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate
Local   Foreign            Local    Foreign
Costs    Costs    Total    Costs     costs     Total
Part A
Proposed IBRD Loan           18.0    29.0      47.0    16.4      26.5       42.9
Enterprises                  44.4     -        44.4    40.4        -        40.4
Sao Paulo                     2.6     -         2.6      2.6        _        2.6
Subtotal                     65.0    29.0      94.0    59.5      26.5       86.0
Part B
Proposed IBRD Loan            -       3.0       3.0      -        0.6        0.6
Federal Gov't.                3.0     -         3.0      3.0        _        3.0
Subtotal                      3.0     3.0       6.0      3.0      0.6        3.6
Total Financing Plan         68.0    32.0    100.0    62.7       27.1       89.6



- 24 -
BRAZIL
Table 8. Status of Legal Covenants
Description
Covenant   Present                    of
Agreement   Section         Type        Status              Covenant                         Comments
Project       2.02 (a)        5            C      Loan withdrawal proceed.
Agreement
2.02 (b)       5            C      Maintain a Special Acct. (CESA)   Revised to permit maintenance of
at the Central Bank.            Special Account in a commercial
bank acceptable to IBRD, instead
of Central Bank.
2.02 (c)       5            C      Loan/project operating
procedures.
3.02           5            C      Procurement of goods/works and
consultants for pollution control
projects only.
3.06           10          NC      Institutional strengthening for  Insufficient progress. Permitted to
(a) (b)                           SEPAs with IBAMA as the         close on June 30, 1994.
executing agency.
3.06           10           C      (i) completion by Dec. 89 of
(a) (b)                           diagnostic studies of local
industrial pollution problems and
capabilities of SEPAs.
(a) (b)      10          NC       (ii) A program for the          No progress before component B
development of incentives for   closed.
pollution control by December
1988.
4.01           1            C       Furnish Bank with audited       Per Loan Agreement, 1993 audited
(d) (e)                          Financial Statements for each    statements due 30 April 1994.
year.                           Delivered by BNDES and
BANESPA 03/30/95.
2.02           5           CP      Loan approval and Withdrawal
(a) (b)                          procedures.
2.07 (a)       5            C      Project operating procedures.
2.09 (a)       1            C      Contractual arrangements         Revised per April 1992 loan
(b) (c)                           BANESPA, CETESB, SABESP.   amendment.
Stdt":         C         = covennt complied with                          NC      = not conplied with
CD       = coniplied with afta delay                      NYD    = not yet due
CP       - complied with partially                        SOON   = compliance expected in reaonably dxxt time



- 25 -
Table 9. Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
Description
Covenant   Present                      of
Agreement   Section          Type        Status               Covenant                          Comments
Project        4.03            1           NC       BANESPA furnish to the Bank,
Agreement                                           not later than July 31 each year, a
project budget.
5.02           10           C        CETESB annually test sources of   Verified in the field for an
emission in each enterprise which   implemented subprojet ad
has carried out a pollution control reviewed monitoring syseim.
sub-project.
C        - oovena complied with                             NC      - nfL complied wih
CD       - complied with aftr delay                         NYD    - not yet dw
CP       - complied with partially                          SOON   - ompliance expead m ftUomiI det d3



- 26 -
Table 9. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of
project cycle                Weeks               US$
Preparation up to appraisal               46.3              97,680
Negotiations through Board approval       10.4              21,942
Supervision                               106.3            224,272
Completion                                10.9              22,997
Total                         173.9            366,891



- 27 -
Table 10. Bank Resources: Missions
Days   Specialized    Performance Rating7
Stage of      Month/   No. of   in    staff skills     Impl.    Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle    Year   persons  field  represented    Status    Objectives    problems
Through       10/86    5        12
Appraisal
Through       4/87     1        6
Board
Approval
Through       11/87    2        14    OO, PS
Effectiveness  4/88    2        10    00, L              2          2            M
Supervision    5/89    2        10    00, PS             2          2            M
4/90     2        n/a   OO, PS             2          2          M-F-P
9/90     3        6      0O, PS, ES        2          2            M
12/90    2        1     00                4           3           F-M
6/92     4        5      FS, PS, EE        2          2            M
11/92    3        4     FS, PS, EE         2          2            M
3/93     2        4      PS, EE            1          2            M
6/93     2        3      PS, EE            2          2            M
9/93     1        3      PS                --         --
1/94     1        3     PS                 2          2           none
6/94     1        3      PS                S          S           none
3/95     5        7      FS, EE, PA        U          S            M
10/95    1        5     ES                U*          S            M
3/96     2        5      ES, EE            U          S            M
Ratings are based on hardcopy versions of 590s. 1= Minor problems; 2= Moderate problems; 3=
Major problems; S= Satisfactory;
U= Unsatisfactory
8      00: Operations Officer; PS: Pollution Specialist; L: Lawyer; ES: Environmental Engineer; PA:
Procurement Analyst
F= Financial; M= Management; P= Procurement
The 590 indicating "S" for implementation was released by mistake prior to clearance by the
Projects Advisor, who recommended to rate the project as "U" until improvements shown during
the period of review were sustainable.



APPENDIX A
LOAN 2831 - 2nd SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
PROJECT
SUPERVISION AND ICR MISSION - MARCH 18-22, 1996
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    Ms. Laura Tlaiye (Task Manager) Ms. Flavia Campero (consultant) visited Sao
Paulo March 18-22, 1996 to conduct the final supervision mission of the 2nd Sao
Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan 2831-BR). Since the loan closes on
June 30, 1996, the mission also invited the government to contribute to a
Implementation Completion Report which is due by December 1996. For their
collaboration and assistance, the mission would like to thank Mr. Fabio Feldman,
Secretario do Meio Ambiente, Mr. Antonio Carlos Figueiredo, Coordenador de
Credito e Patrimonio, Secretaria de Estado dos Negocios da Fazenda, Mr. Jose
Rubens, also from Secretaria da Fazenda, Luiz Carlos da Costa, Coordinator of
PROCOP; Mr. Wilson Maluf and Mr. Eloi Moccellin, Chefe do DEODI of BANESPA;
and, Mr. Mauro Stein of BNDES.
Mission's Objectives
2.    The mission 's objectives were to:
polution credit line component: assess whether commitment level of the credit line
will ensure full disbursement of the USS44.4 million no later than 4 months after
closing;
* CEMESB's technical assistance component: assess implementation progress
(comnmitments and disbursements) with particular attention to the largest
undisbursed subproject (T-12, Development of Human Resources).
PoUution Control Credit Component (A.1)
3.    Although the credit line remains officially fully comrnited at US$ 44.4 million, it
was agreed during the last supervision mission (October 16-12, 195) that CETESB and
BANESPA would reassess the effective commitment level because of two factors: (i)
USS3.3 million were likely to be canceled because three companies were no longer
ir2erested or could not meet BANESPA's participation requirements; (ii) the need to
overcommit the Bank's credit line to minirnize the risk of not disbursing the entire
credit line due to delays in other subprojects.
4.    The situation of the US$3.3 million has not changed since October: thus, the
nmssion recommends that these projects be officially canceled. Regarding additional
subprojects to cover these US$3.3 million and possibly overcomrnit the line. CETESB
informed the mission that three projects of about US$ 1.7 million in potential Bank
financinz that were technically approved and submitted to BANESPA (see Table 1).
As shown in the table, it has been about four months since the first subproject was
submitted to BANESPA. BANESPA indicated that these projects cleared the credit
analysis division, but were being held up by the Diretoria because these companies had
other debts



TA BLE J
PROJETOS EM ANALISE NO BANESPA
No    EMPRESA    LOCALI; &QAo            PROJETO           Data Envio    Valor Total   65% Valor do  50% Valor do  35% Valor do
BANESPA       Projeto        Projeto       Projeto       Projeto
01 Glez Industrial   OlimpiaK( 3S    Esta;Ao de Trat. de Efluentes    17/11/95  415 188,00  352 '90,80   o07.594,00    145.315,80
Liquidos
02 Us. Sio Martinho Prad6pohi JCB   Biodigestao da Vinhaoa  05/02V98     1.475 754,90    1.254.391,67   737.877,45    516.514,22
03 Cimento Portland itapevi/C\ CS   Despoeiramento Fomo     23/02/9      1.427.450.00    1.213.332,50   713725,00    499.607,50
Maringa                      Siderurgico
TOTAL                          3.318.392.90    2.820 633.97  1.659 196,45   1 161.437,52



-3 -
with BANESPA or were being asked to borrow from BANESPA on commercial terms
for other projects. As shown in Table 2, CETESB has an additional pipeline of 14
additional subprojects, 9 of which could submitted to BANESPA within two weeks for
approval. BANESPA agreed to speed up its approval process to increase the chances
of fully committing the credit line. This includes following up on the group of
additional potential projects that have pending carta consulta..
5.    At this critical stage of project completion, the mission expressed its deep
concern about BANESPA's insertion of commercial objectives in its approval process
because it is threatening the timely completion of the project. The mission discussed
this situation with the Secretarias do Meio Ambiente and da Fazenda. The discussion
concluded that this practice by BANESPA would cease and it was agreed that by
April 30 BANESPA would emit its final approval decision regarding the projects in
Tables 1 and 2. In addition, it would officially request cancellation of the US$3.3
million mentioned in para 3.
6.    As of the end of March 18, 1996 disbursements from BNDES to BANESPA
stood as follows (in US$ million):
Component           Approved            Disbursed            Balance
Amount (US$)        (US$ million)       (US$ million)
A1*               44.4                 37.2                7.2
_ _2_ *              2.6                  1.9                0.7
B (IBAMA)               0.6                 0.6                 0.0
TOTAL                47.6                39.7                 7.9
* See Table 3 for pipeline detail.
**See Table 4 for Technical Assistance subproject detail.
7.    BANESPA's current disbursement forecast for the undisbursed balance of
US$7.2 million is that only about US$1 million is likely to be disbursed from the
existing pipeline by June 30 (effectively, the line stands undercommited at US$41.1
million, if the US3.3 million are taken out). Thus, it is extremely important for
BANESPA to approve at least the total US$8.3 million in new subprojects listed in
Tables 1 ($1.7 million) and 2 (US$6.6 million).
Technical Assistance Component (A.2)
8.    Based on BNDES disbursements on this component, US$ 0.7 million were
disbursed between mid-October 1995 and March 18, 1996. The largest item of this
amount is associated with the telemetric network equipment ($540,000) which was
inspected by the mission at CETESB's headquarters. The detailed status of
disbursements of each subcomponent is listed in Table 3.
9.    Of note is that the largest undisbursed and uncommitted balance is
subcomponent T-1 I with US$460,170 undisbursed balance. The mission was
informed by Secretario



PROJETOS EM ANALISE NA CETESB - T I3 LE L
N° EMPRESA         LOCALIZACAO            PROJETO           Dat Envio   Valor Total    85% Valor do   50% Valor do  35% Valor do
__________ pi Andise                                  Projeto        Projeto        Projeto      Projeto
1 Tecelagem       Sao Carlos/    Estabdo de Tratamento de    17110195     294 582,00     250.394,00    147.291.00    103 103,00
S<.o Carlos    CIBA           Efluentes l.iquidos       _                      __.____                 .               __
2 Eucatex         SaltoiCR       Esta,co deTrat3mento de     08/11/95    2 746 700,00    2.334.695,00  1.373 350,00  961 345,00
Aguas Residwarnas
, IAP             Cubatao/CSC   Unidade de Fostato Bicalcio    27/12195    2.232.602,00    1 897 771,00  1.116 301 00  781 470.00
4' IAP            Cubatao/CSC   Unidade de Armazenamento   27/12/95       345.974,GO      294 077.00    172 987,00   121 090,05
de Rocha
S lAP            CubataclCSC  'Unidade de Tancagem de       28/12195     322 734,00      274 324,00    161 367,00   112 957.00
Acides                               _
t3 IAP            CubataolCSC   Compressor de Ar para Equi-  09101196      83 440,00       70 924.00    41.720.00     29 204 00
pamentos de Controle                I
7" IAP            CubataolCSC   Bombas e Tubulaq6es para    09101/96       26 486,00       22.514.00    13 243,00      5 271,CO
Consumo de Agtia da ETEL
8' IAP            CubataolCSC    Sistema de Controle de Ar da   09/01/906  34.442,00       29.275,00    17.221,00     12.054,CO
da Descarga de Rocha
9' IAP            CubatAo/CSC   Unidade de Acido de Cloro    18/01)96     567 488,00      482 365,00   283 744,00    198 621.00
Sultfnico
10 IAP             Cubatao/CSC    Unidade de Ensaque VI      18/01)6       504.062,00     428453,00   252.031,00      176.422,00
11 Caitoniticio   Valinhos/CRCC  Sistema de Trat. de Efluentes   24/01/96  382 500,00     325.125,00    191.250.00    133 875,00
Valinhos                                                                             _
12 Covolan Benef.  ItatibalCRCC    Estaqio de Tratamento de  07102/98      366 988,42     311. 940,15   183.494.21    128.445,94
_Texteis                       Efluentes Liquidos
13 CTM/CITRUS    Limtira/CCPLI  Precipitador EletrostAtico   05102/96      890.000,00     756.500,00    445.000,00    311.500,00
14 Petroqulmica    Sarno Andr6CSC  Reduclo de Particulados dos   14/02/98    4.40B.770,89    3 745.760,35  2.203.388,44   1.542.371,91
Uniao                         gases
TOTAL                        13.204.775,31   11.224.117.50  6.802.387,85   4.621.729,85



is                PROCOP                                                                                                           US$ 1.00
I'i          ~~~~BItD I FUNDO                                               Tu    a
A       'AA        VW              Wm        "UEM        AU IINOL NLO          1     1ADO    ALuM       WtADO        AL.ER
o    _ 1      "                      CaiaO                        _o mc0                          l nu Ao       IWAL      gm          gm          PUN0    0       O
ta 3 1   Se"SA                         07.    21 '10113     3q.63           -      1.062.500      (36.307)     7.62  "?A     .0893         - -                       -
Su3    32   UOIDQUI*CALIO,             01.1   2. '10C1       20-.3-0                  426         (11*O)    2340t          2.60            -           .
8~~   32  ~A8~PMAMTAPfl4T  03.33   2~~ 10111  316.622  66.6gem    339.600     (13S4.76)   243.624      24.34                      5.1
la a. 6    COMIWCII^AAFMR.             03.nz01e 21.2 '.IM   315.52                                                        241.n424.4   -
0 
oo    34   iwAtams                     3211   21 '101      343.27       36.233      416.500      (100.622    306.30       206.307                   36.2
os I   xrAeTENSE                      05.33   It o0M       46.250      46.11        4.500       (40.440)        6o                       60        46.1W
33   WEM  &SrA                  01.3t    1 o06s4   1.636.66       MA.6N     1.666.000                1.655.000    1.331.632     $22-16e      30.52-
BY  US34A,pXCARE3STER             -         -            -           -        750.000     (730.000)        -                                    -
CAC-C"PGcCIoA                  02.09   1: 06533      73.007      21.971       n.000       (26.7m4)    61.216       61.216                   21.671
30   FAGA                       07.32   0: 1013      364.U2      234.610      276.w        (166.448)    20.052         .        120.062     16.1"          T.421
310  OMPASCIAPAAI6JAOF FERL     39.34   1 064#4      395.000     163.000      302.000      (146.000)   236.000     126.126      110.374      37.600        71.494
Oil AUDIOSTW00                  02.33   0: 0612"      56.336         -         70.020      (14.025)    66.16        6.6
312   A                         0A Ot.lH   01 1o.3   342.237     34u.2a7      225000       (16000)         -4-                      -       U.2S7
I 1J      S%                    07.3s   1 1216    1.260.664   1.310.472     1.662.000    (1.612.681)    60.182      60.182          -      1.310.472
314 CAC                                              102.637     103.637       67.200       (67.200)       -           *                    103.637
31l  DEStWP">sat%               02.30   Ot 06.30     648.267     643.312      733.620      (77.112)      4.938       4.236          -       643.31
316 UQPAGfECA_.AAatA                                                         A11.000      (116.000)        -           -            -
3  I? UGAW SATAEUZA               -                                           122.250     (129.3501        -           -            -           -             -
* 1I  UVA4UACEMAE M 1 EMDL         -                     *-                   440.000     (440.000)        -
313  ueshsRIoA                  01.31   3 10.11      M M.124      1.617       t60.000      1567.323)    32.607      82.607          -          .617                               1
320 uIsskmIIOS*m                01.31   3 10.21      ?n.o?7                   630.000      (551.013)    73.907      7.907           -           -             -
321  Us 8AhbesHOsA              01.31   3 10.31      123.21         9*0.000               (366.762)    123.231     123.231          -           *             -
n22 UscRESCam.&A                02.21   1l 11.31      67.n1s      U.337       225.000     (202.613)    21.431       21.41           -          .337
*23 us smAIeA s01.1   3 10.31   2.64.032    1.606.04                        1.625.000     (56705)  1.7.01.44    .07.44              -       653.455     1.014.639
3 24  uSamooSAN0A 01.31   3 10.31   2.160.000                        -      2.110.000                2.16.000    1.961.212      101.068
023  SI.MELREMAIhI.WTDA         06.32   1 09.32       64.063      26.157      4U.3o        (113o8)    27.932        37.032                   26.157           -
323  imA s                      07.31   2 .12.1      1T6.16       96.202      142.600       (.47        3.413       12.11S       77.204      46.24         40.278
327 V MNUmERWAsaC.A             04.31   2 11.61       1.3A0       72.,46      120.000      (102.476)    17.525      17.625          -        72.346
329  M." sa                     06.81   2 11.21      46.27       277.473      700.000     (60.202)      31.26       S1.73           -       377.479
32 2   WA J.ENTOS LTA           06.M1   0 A12.1      131.468      71.640      141.100      (61.132)     66.316      18.016       41.902      61.411        20.122 O
|30 FrAEO                       01.32   2 01.32       48.636      43,66 .ooo 66500°)                       -           -            -        46.63
|81  IRNVOA                                              *           -        16.30        (143.360)       -           -
332  ULA   CAEO TD                                       -           - A136.000            (360.000)       -                  -                   
333  aEmAsAMm5AM                02.82   2 .04.3    2..006        70M 1      1.000.000         (6    1.13716    1..715                       70M31
E84  3AWI                       02.8CA2   1 .03.20  1.407.733    64         I40            (67.671)   M.201        M.201            -        34.46
1    U  CaON0SfIUQMLT -e0                                                                   (36.000)



n".                                                                               T(4T        3     (c       AueL'
co                                              M"A        %a          NA         lamaL       Minm         sIaum_W    LMA         ALA          LN          A_DO   L
.0                                    cOUtU1               ftVI        mNao           _Ao0    _                .         Rmm                                    o
u0j      6 COAAPMIA                    0402   07.06.02     32.1        44.6        33620                    335.20      336.2=0         -         46.m
l'    a n   ckmf                       0 6a02   11.66.32   467        202nM        2N.M           33.       283.000     213.M0                   M.M
0,!    UI CUItOSSJLTh                 00.02   16.10.32    U6.021     302.46       3.W                      M 3.663      MA.N3                   302.4
0° MLMtTDA.^'1| 1z46 
a   0U41  _nmwmoDmmAaa                 3103   03.02.0   1.140.3s      41.6         M.100            -        .100       26072       421.020      16622        26.614
|42  TmwoacoeusTmu              3.03   12.0t2       6.63        21.40       30210                    302.10      302.10          -        21A.486
343 OEM amomaaA                 24.63   190163   1.01.664       449.06      641.6             -      641.6       641.                     449.76
344  EMEAfo omaFowofJA         6.33   30.03.03     640.461     207.713     332.738                  332.736     267.4        66.262      184.773       22.040
346  WISICA   C A RCaSM c                                          *          65.204        .234)        --
646 CAAMM.CAwa.01u             956.33   11.06.63   124.17       50.160      76.060        (1.633)    73.427      73.427                   60.750
64?  rEwMiMoDm80                        16.06.0      2.06"         *         20.6                     20.966         -         20.6           -
346  DE"0iMA%MaIMWA             23.03   100103   1.20M.306      532.467     76.341            -      760.041     760.841                  632.467
346 PEWIAS.S                   131.03   00.00.03   1.U6.210O               1.6.210           -    1.666.210    1.6U.210
06 "  MCQAPAUSAfERT             4.3   00.03.03      40.370      197.761     271.619                  271.610     271.619         -        197.751
|61  COEu  Sa                   3.93   29.00.73      36.407     360.163     624.244                  624.244     4316.81      167.420     270.416       B8.747
662  OMAlllCSAHTAAMOLAEE       101.03   03.06.03    6.706       20S.001     32S.616                  320.615     216.487      113.123     148.973       60.112
IN ou  R D WSGAMWATDA                                   -                   137.203      (137.283)                   -            -
EU  rwocmmNmU)IE8I"IA4   176.03  28.10.03            71.735      31.417      61.03        (21.3       40.363      40.38           -        27.365        36562  M
f 6  Rw.pPAM PAV CWAA          136.03   14.00.3      76.172      20.361      47.11    *               47.611      36.420       11.301      25.102        3.259 n>
ON oUAC 0AAXES A                                                   *          0.763        (9.753)                   -     -            -                  -
0 S7 ZANfmnfM   AaSR           123.03  28.06.03     216.7SS      66.48s      124.371        3.a1s    128.219      120.2B0                  88.499
UN  mMFRANaO4WA                 136.03  06.10.03   1.101.06     421.04      6790.107                 670.107     6O.641        73.26      421.49           -
5 6   UBACAS4A                 1i3.03  00.12.3   21674.23    1.226.62      1.647.604          -    1.647.600     82r.s76      810.633     260.076      S57.651
0   ADOAUBOTEfG                                        -                     7 6.643     (16."3)        -           -                        -
|61  CIAVADeEStoW                                   425.660        .        42.660                   426.650                  425.550
362  mlaSQApmAxmTAU61           7.3   22.06.U3       21.21        3.64        12.U77          223    12.665        12.666         .         3 64
363 CaOscaApXaarAFAT.          147JJ  13.10.3       626.660     214.06      322.30        (11.306)   311.674     311J.4           .       214.15S
364 0 mD OOEcocvmoaUOE                                                        I 7.0"6      (7.6)         -           -"-                      --
|    a OTDAIDCOM               014184  27.04.0       33.064      40.467      131.674      (13."67)    62.617       62.67                   36.119        4.348  M
|06 uNAR wtoomE n mmomo        148.33  10.11.03     21.062       00.06         .000        21.000    120.000     117.367        2.64       0.062
I67 T  rwMaALw                  141.93  23.0.U3    111.000        -         t1.00                   111.000     1i1.0m -0
I| 6  PETRaO.&AUNAO             44.S3   03.03.U3   1.733.467        -      1.733.467                1.733.467    1.733.467       -
|        M MFADP,M A,LIN       122.93  07.10.03     U37.376                 M0000         (2.624)   337.376       37.376          -           -            -
37          w TmeA - CW DR     142.03  23.09.03     246.000                 24.000                   245.000     246.000         -



LI                                                              i~~~~~r^4  3 (whItu~)
0                                                AAv                                olm        Auwni        Ham        L*4          A LMAR      LMA 
I 0  |7  OLTtACO TilWOtRAT tOO                  1.11.U3 1^"                          ta             14M       I1.W2       II.W2           -2.U -
Oc |-A  0*n  UtNCW                     187.03   1 L"2."3    U1.2"        71.22       110.00       (14.000      U.0"          U.000                  71.291-
55   |    ViAEA *n                  lo,3 1@.    1.12.03  20t.2t0     03.270      2tZ000        ( .00)   1U4.000        I#?-"?       14.403       46.451       16J26
|074  KaSCOM RMBN S               M0.83  ; !.12.83    W704        144.784      24.00        (3.W\    20t.0          234.673      (37.573)    128.353        Us.351
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0  13700  127.408 .9 .8    32.03400
BIG7 PnoEc  OT EoRCAO SWAs Li  38.*4   11.06.94       232.228     $7.m2        184.000                                             I..00  13.0   2.0   .2  64.853.4
*n7  RW  W ECSO    VCftW  E AMl L  3.4    * t0.K94   2Wf8P       114.234      t4g.000       2?.M21    175.twl      im§             -        14.2U4
1 78 UBAOX-JOTWAM                10.91   2 I.11.S3   1.34U.91     7e0o.*u      4500W         n8.ooo     "3.000       Uz2n7          723      501.590       279.32S
978  IISF AMlO R4UCTRL           MISS3   1 .12.S3    454.9ft         -        1S.000           (44    104.05U      ISCU.S         
* 0  VLAINDCOML70A              201.93  21I 12.93    704.195     294.195      41QOOO0-                 4t0.000     n7l.6"        31.408     260.878        33.319
|6  L  AFOTEFtOWu                 18.S4   C .02.S4    *n.uo       137.64e      l".000           -       t.000       t"6.0o0          .       137.U40      
|  82 ACHE LAORAl4RIDFARi        210.93   1 .0i.S4     U.081i         .         fi.000        (-916)    4S.085       40.086          ---
ass  ZRw                                              5.000          -          .000                    53.000         -3.000--   #
10@4 MET nto /a^ No o             13.S4   C   02.04   6.1S5       269.19       31.8000          -       31.000      305-100       U5.90      205.834        63.381 
10  RUAWWINI tDTWILt            0o.u    2 i.03.04     243.210      n<109s      11rew0        20.600    143.600      143. W           -9.610-                          
DM°  W^SCAPAbUUAffRTL.           38.04   1 -.05.94    61.0-00     251.000      369.000          -       359UW0      2U.072        S4.428      1S9.025       8S.975                td
|  87 UAChETTllDLTDA                                      --                   140.000     (140.000)        --*-- 
|  08  DcN3mmlltoCCuiCottfenflau  30.94   1 .07.44    133.S34     059.934       74.             -        7400         0.C2C       *4.372       C.147        U3.167
|0    ~ AFAIAAIA ACE                                      - ALOO               1r2.ew0     (17S-0O)         -*  
DO 090 MVNTlFIAS                                      4U.000          -         4u.eoo                   45.eFo0                  45.eoo0                          NEG
O S1 COFAP fAIIRI Ot PECA:                            3.000          '990                               38* t.9                  3 _   $00                        NE**  G
|0 S3 UNAFT OLWPP                                     sweo                     3 5.000                  385.oo          -.00e                    ,NEUK
095 HtFDO&f                                           7e.ew          -         aeoe         20.000      70.eoo         -         r.ooo          -             -   KG
06  WTSSt$A fE ltDOFTC                               $0.000         -000                               80 .eoo        -          O.OW.                       -   NEI
Al  PfTRottwSAuNft               44.0    t 1.03.03   6m.72200        -       .7tzew0           -    e.22.000    s.461.e80       2r0.114
A2   mmmNtfm                     a*.4   i i.03.04   2.W0.383         -      200.3              -    2.65e.a83    2.50e.33
AS ^l  ITDCLA                    11.03   2 !. 12.#   8.3.200   20620    too.                   t,o 5"0              .09.S0     2.431.641     41006       2.24&420
A4  umcammo                     004.94  i1 .01.11   3.16.319   2.3t1.131     176.0W                    07.000      514.22       SN.774    2.311.319
A0HIMU                     eOI. 0  2 '.09.50     13.0   0081 s1-----                                                                    13.081-
COOP AMW S4AVALEMOUP0  1709             .10.93   15.721      15.721 i                                                                   15.721
U      ACUARA MOTMNL      .e0oso  10 10.os0    420.4U5     42S.4U5          -----                                                      428.4U5
n&9rOAT                                                                                                                                        5.437669.".r6
an TOTAL                            01.44.60s  20.r06.446   $1.66.647   (10.514.3"n  45.1311.9i$   33.410.9gy    7.128 303   15.267,244    64.0
_CNCJMno OS                              19LIU.438)  12.2n.9)   0.343.45i0)                (3.343.460)              (3.343.450)        -       2.276.911)
MAL                       00-~~~~~~"224J.SS  1|.428 .U    48.sQ097.         41.7n&40    37.410.|12    438.853|  15fi267.244     3.14i.214
00:        e sVr<a_OfG&Si~t



' TAIL6 It
LOAN 2631-DR - TA Cuqas
Soihadan oft kMetl *im
Seitiproje              Compn                         Stas               Initial .       _      Ibn           Fbnal       Amoff t       Amoun
-Auadz.      Arnoue       Dale      Ariz           Pid          To pay
TM0                ConlinfWrcy                                         4000.00                             4,000.00            0       4,000.00
T-01    IusbIl Wates Treitrnenl & Dsposl         Concuded                    0                                 0.00            0             0
T-02      Hydrogeologlcal Ev;.kwhton of Sies     Con d               135,000.00    *8.503.17   1003/95    126,496.83    125,059.82     1.437.01
Avabla or hkzstd  Wate Dispxa
T-03     Use ol Soi br Trealri nt and Disposal   Some epmmnent mst   119,000.00    -3.000.00   10/03/95    116,000.00    114,794.32    1,205.68
of Sodd lusidel Waste            be pxmhue
T-04    vaklation on Amie Toxiciy on he Stae  Foreign equipment      116,000.00    16.503. 17  10003/95    132,503.17   36,694.95    96.808.22
of Sao Patuo Rivers; tgftiorn wth    being pwdcasec
the Water Poluion Contlr Pogrm
T-05     Akemalives Ior Odor ContIol relted to   Conckxded             2,000.00      -959.09   10/03/95    1,040.91      1,089.38       -48.47
odustdal Erisslons
T-06     Evaluton and Prevention of ndusltlal    Conclided            43,000.00    -2,000.00   10/03/95   41,000.00     39,741.00      1.259.00
Accidets Pillatily Dangms hr
Cuba:lo
T-07     Meodology hr Cosl/Benel Analysis   Sodtware _dhan  to be          0.00                                             0.00
on Polu io0            PurChsed. WB  dquee
copy of related study
T-08    Deveopnme and ritlemrentlalon of an      Conluded           311,000.00    -3,000.00   10/03/96    308,000.00    304,926.84   3,073.16
c Mslhodology hr E      _meil
Polulion Control
T-09       Laboralory or Polkuion Control     Eq*imet beI            350,000.00                           350.000.00    339,373.15    10.626.85
Engum,ring                   puhsed
T-10     Tchnal SuPod f Pdoion Conrd             Concluded            131,000.00    2,959.09   10/03/9    133,959.09    133,628.24      330.85
Activiies
T-1 I            Technical 1Trai                In execujon          631,000.00     4,000.00   1003/9    635,000.00    174,830.00    460,170.00
T-12     Modetzatlon of Alr ualty Mworn  Equpent to be dverad        660,000.00                           660,000.00    564,283.00    95,717.00
Equipmnt               Iimokoal consuAmcy
wI be requked to hbllsnin
and last
T-13    SU d r Ilthm IMutcatlon odAeass     Eqipment being puad       98,000.00    -6,000.00   1003/95    92,000.00     91,043.00       957.00
In the Mdepol Are of Sao pato.    StaWf txu, rsquked
T-14    kmpbenualo of a Mrnagemnt Systeml        Conckuded                 0.00                                             0.00          0.00
sob blo u-  i 4    PRO                                            __
TobJ                                         2,00000t 0                          2.,000.00A   1.925463.70    674,538.3



-7-
Feldman that the already planned consultancies and training courses would be
revaluated and possibly restructured in view of a more critical assessment of the
expected benefits. He expresed his concern about that the lack of coordination of
human resources development activities in State institutions supported by external
financing. CETESB would forward to the Bank by April 5 the list of themes prepared
by Secretaria do Meio Ambiente. The Bank would comment on this list within a week.
The new plan for comrnitment of these activities (TORs) would be forwarded to the
Bank within by April 30. In order expedite the flow of funds for these activities,
CETESB requested an advance to Brittish Council which would be based on the new
plan.
Implementation Completion Report
10.   Secretario Feldman expressed great interest in conducting an independent
evaluation of PROCOP involving outside members of society concerned with pollution
management in the State. The mission indicated that it is Bank's policy to evaluate
perforrnance of completed projects within 6 months after closing date and; thus,
welcomed the Secretario's interest in drawing lesson from this important pollution
mnagement program. The mission delivered to CETESB and BANESPA the Bank
guidelines on completion reports and agreed on the following preparation plan:
* Bank submits to CETESB and BANESPA for comment the draft indicators for
evaluting the project (financial, environmental, and institutional indicators);
-    TESB develops the baseline and "after project" environmental and institutional
dat-
B BANESPA develops the financial indicators data;
.. the Bank submits a first draft of the completion report;
-    CETESB and BANESPA submit their assessment of the report;
*  the independent evaluation group invited by the Secretaria de Meio Ambiente
would receive CETESB's and BANESPA's first draft reports and would and emit
an opinion.
I l. Certain technical indicators for performance evaluation (e.g., the inventory of
emissions prior and after each subproject, and the total investment costs) are already
beei asembled by CETESB. This is part of a more comprehensive evaluation of
PROCOP as it seeks to design a strategy for the next stage of the State's efforts in
controlling industrial pollution. The Bank is already participating in this evaluation
with PROCOP's team through its Policy and Development Economics Institute and
considers these lessons of experience very important for future assistance in this area
in Brazil and elsewhere.
IV. Plan of Action
14.   To achieve timely completion of the project, the mission and CETESB agreed
on the following Plan of Action:
On BANESPA's side:



* by April 30, 1996 officially request adjustment of approvals under the credit line
and update the subproject by subproject disbursement forecast.
On the Bank's side:
* by April 1, approve adjustment to TA categories as requested by CETESB;
* by April 1, review and adjust approval for USINA SAO MARTINHO, S.A.
On CETESB's side:
*  By April 20, complete technical evaluation of 4 projects in Table 2 and submit to
BANESPA.
*  by April 5, send the Bank the new list of TA activities associated to the training
program:
*  by April 30, send the Bank the new Terms of Reference for the above TA
activities, and the associated disbursement schedule;
*  by September 30, complete the first draft of the emissions data ("before" and
"after" project).
S_      luiz Aao                                         LauraTIlaiye
CETESB                                       World Bank Task Manager
Friday, March 22, 1996



APPENDIX B
a 3J?/97/PfA/PI
Sfio Paulo, 19 June 1997.
Dear Sir,
Further to the ICR - Implementapo Completon Rleport - analysis, related to the second
phase of the PROCOP Lon 2831-BR, we arc plcased to inform you that wc havc
coDaidered it good and that it refleMts not only the propgm dewelopment, but the financil
benficiaries opiin
Wc should also mention the efforts made by CEIESB in the full commitment of the
available amount for fnancine, reflcd in the number of approved projects, 151 (47%
above the total), in relation to the number of projects fialy sent to the BIRD,
approximateLy 103.
It is also good to mention the present efforts of the Government of thc State of Sgo Paulo,
vering the credibility near that Bank, accomplishing  the financial counterpart
commitments, and the aquittance of zstrained resourca by previous Government.
Finnally, as per infomed in our correspondence dated on 16 May 1997, you shaod confDrm
the final amount not used, related to the "Part A1 - Credit ine Component", that in your
repor indicates the amount of USS3848,184.07.
Sicerly yours,
Psidcnt                                                 ard
Reg. e 01.9963-2
Reg. al1.  6 0
Mr. LUIs Coolo
Acing Division Chief Natura Resources,
Environmntal and Rural Povey  Department I Latin
Anerica sad the Caribbean
1818 H Stret N.W.
Wahington, D.C. 20433 - US.A.



BRAZIL
SECOND INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
State of Sao Paulo and Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area
MINAS GERAIS                               STATEOFSAOPAULO
orang -   TRegionol Departments
MATO                                                                                                -   J S    O   D  State boundaries
GROSS.                SAN JOSED                                                   7 - Regional Department boundaries
G R O S S O          Q                      R. PRETO                                                    Greater So Paulo
R R      RIBEIRAO
ARA                                           PRETO
tJ   ,j-<s                  <                        '           f~~~~~~~~~~~-jt-
J
PRESIDENTE        -            -                                    3
Ra       PRUDENTE                                                                              N       GER. jS
t                      BAUR                                     MINAS GERAIS
CAMPINAS           L                       *'''r        RIO
* MARILIA                              ?                                  . jDE
K!~~~~~~~~ VALE  DO                    e
.,A    PARAIBA        IJA N5RO
' Z\GREATER  \           j
F    5    SOROCABA      dSAo PAULO __
J -        ub'a60 
L    ^  B R A Z I L  )       ,_                          g _. t  _ t  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~' Santos  
B-i_  B il             PARANA                                    TORAL
- 11 t5 loI ~~; .? )< . Z                                     .                           4, , ,z
0      530    tOo  150    200    250
ui.                     6  u                              . d                                                     Kil-m1.t-r,
0                                  150
CAMPINAS                                            r -
VALE DO
.4 , N          TH         2 1                    PARAIBA
1  NORTHE  T
20          19
24.
12       W                 ,-                   i-25-0                 \              i,,,/-'2
SOROCADA i  NTHWEST                                                                                              _ _6
j  8                            - z         '.
4               t             )  2 9              ~~~~~~~           ~ ~~~~~~E AS T2B     \
\ 13 1  -X  ......                                          2&1-/21/..........   
j SOUT HVWESTri                           35                     ATER SAO PAULO METROPOLITAN AREA
15                                                    Sub-regions and Municipalities
Schematic dr,w,ng-scale approimnate
..-..- Reg,on Department bondlar,es
---Sub region boundaries
3j,/  -....ifLITORAL                  __ M__-Muorcilol boundaries
Sao Paulo Center
2' Solesopolis
CENTER                8 ltopevi                  NORTHEAST                 29 Suzono
.    .         ~~~~~Sd, PouloCity   9 Jrandi,a                 19 Arujr                   SOUTHEAST
NORTH   10 osas o                    0 ~~~~~G.uomohos         30 Dodemo
I Co,eiras          11 Pireparedo Bom Jesus     21 Sootoisobel            31 Mou6
I Faonc,sco Morale    12 Soniona do Parnaibra     EAST                     32 Ribeirdo Pires
3 Fronce da Roche     SOUTHWEST                 22 B,ril,ba iriom          3 l Rio Gronde do Serra
4 Moiripora          13 Cotio                    23 Ferrz de Vosconcelos   -,34 Santo Andre
:4 Embu      24 G.aro,emo              ~~~~35 Shoc Be,nordo do Cnamps 
NORTHWEST            15 Enbu Guacu              25 4tGqurrrecenoba         3' Sro Coetono doSul Se
r~~~~~~~~~                                ~      ~ ~ 5Baruerit ltopecruicadaSer  26 Molidoes C,uzes                                   c
_                       7 Coropicuiba    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~ 8 Tobordo do Serra 












