Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2831 BR
Project Agreement
(Second Industrial Pollution Control Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF SAO PAULO
and
BANCO DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO S.A. - BADESP
and
CETESB - COMPANHIA DE TECNOLOGIA DE SANEAMENTO AMBIENTAL
Dated  July 27, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2831 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  July 27, 1987, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF SAO PAULO (the State) and BANCO DE 
DESENVOLVIMENTO DO ESTADO DE  SAO PAULO  S.A.  - BADESP  (BADESP) and CETESB COMPANHIA 
DE TECNOLOGIA DE SANEAMENTO AMBIENTAL (CTESB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank and Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento 
Economico (BNDES), a development bank wholly owned by, and created and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the 
State, a political sub-division of the Borrower, BADESP, a development bank created 
and operating under the laws of the Borrower and the State and in which the State 
owns,  indirectly through Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo,  S.A. (BANESPA), a majority 
interest, and CETESB, a company created and operating under the laws of the Borrower 
Page  2
and the State and in which the State owns a majority interest, agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered  into between BNDES on 
behalf and as financial agent (agente financiero) of the Borrower, and the State and 
BADESP, the latter as financial agent (agente financeiro) of the State and 
administrator of PROCOP (as the term is defined in Section 1.02 (b) of the Loan 
Agreement),  a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for under the Roan Agreement will be made available to PROCOP to be used by 
BADESP and CETESB in the carrying out of Part A.1 and Part A.2 of the Project, 
respectively, on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the State, BADESP and CETESB, in consideration of the Bank's entering 
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and BNDES, have agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preambles to the Loan Agreement and to this Agreement and 
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The State declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, shall cause 
BADESP and CETESB to carry out Part A.l and Part A.2 of the Project, respectively, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering and  ecological practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for Part A of the Project.
(b)
BADESP and CETESB declare their commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, without 
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the 
Bank, BNDES and the State shall otherwise agree, BADESP and CETESB shall carry out 
Part A.l and each Technical Assistance Sub- project under Part A.2 of the Project, 
respectively, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the practices 
mentioned in paragraph (a) above, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part A.1 
and Part A.2 of the Project, respectively.
Section 2.02. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit  Sub-loan) 
to the Bank for approval, BADESP shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment 
Enterprise, including an analysis of its  creditworthiness, and an appraisal of the 
Pollution Control Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the financing plan for the 
Sub-project, the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule 
of amortization thereof; (iii) the statement required under  paragraph (d) below; (iv) 
a description of the methods for procurement of any goods and civil works contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in respect of the Pollution Control 
Sub-project in question; (v) the steps and actions that BADESP intends to take or has 
taken to secure adherence by the Investment Enterprise in question, if warranted, to 
the provisions of Parts A and C.1 of the Schedule to this Agreement and to enable 
BADESP to comply with its obligations under Section 2.07 (a) (ii)(l) of this 
Agreement; and (vi) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by BADESP for authorization to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub loan shall contain: (i) the location of 
Page  3
the pollution source or sources to be treated under the Sub-project in question, the 
date on which the corresponding Investment Enterprise began to operate such source or 
sources, and the main line of production of the facility or facilities in which such 
source or sources are located; (ii) purpose and method of reduction of pollution of 
the Pollution Control Sub-project, and estimates of pollution reduction to be achieved 
thereunder, including technological risks associated with the aforesaid method; (iii) 
the description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; (iv) the information required under (ii) apt (iii) of paragraph (a) above 
presented in a concise fashion; and (v) such other information as the Bank shall 
reasonably request. BADESP shall retain the appraisal report from which all the 
preceding information shall be obtained.
(c)
When presenting a Grant to the Bank for approval BADESP shall furnish to 
the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank,  together with: (i) a 
description by CETESB of the activities to be carried out by CETESB under the 
Technical Assistance Sub-project in question, including the goods, if any, to be 
acquired thereunder; (ii) a request by CETESB to the Bank for the approval of such 
Technical Assistance Sub-project and of the procedures to be followed for the award of 
contracts for the acquisition of goods thereunder, if any; (iii) such other 
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(d)
When requesting authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
in respect of free-limit sub-loans or presenting other Sub-loans for approval, BADESP 
shall furnish to the Bank a statement by CETESB indicating that it has approved the 
Pollution Control Sub-project in question, that the Sub-project in question consists, 
in CETESB's opinion, of a direct or indirect treatment of the pollution problem that 
the Sub-project in question is expected to control, and that such treatment and 
control are consistent with the corresponding pollution control strategy that has been 
accepted by the Bank for purposes of the Project, or, if no such strategy exists, that 
the level of pollution control to be achieved with the Sub-project in question is 
equal to that achievable with the best practical technology available. If, for any 
circumstance, CETESB recommends a technology other than the best practical available, 
the justification of such other technology, in a fashion satisfactory to the Bank, 
shall be required for the aforesaid Bank authorization or approval, as the case may 
be.
(e)
The provisions of Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement shall apply to this 
Section.
Section 2.03. (a) BADESP, as financial agent of the State, shall, upon 
withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan by BNDES from the Loan Account and relending by 
BNDES to the State, in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, of the proceeds 
so withdrawn, credit PROCOP with the equivalent amount in cruzados of such proceeds.
(b)
BADESP shall, in addition to the amounts specified in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, credit PROCOP with any amount contributed by the State for purposes of 
the Project pursuant to Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. BADESP shall: (a) administer PROCOP in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel and in 
accordance with the provisions of Decrees No. 14806, dated March 4, 1980, and No. 
14807, dated March 4, 1980, as amended by Decrees No.  21,880, dated January 11, 1987 
and Decree No. 27,020 dated May 22, 1987, respectively, Decree No. 26,972, dated April 
29, 1987, and the By-laws;
(b)
credit PROCOP, promptly after each respective payment, with such amounts 
as shall be paid by Investment Enterprises to BADESP, as  Administrator of PROCOP, on 
account of the repayment of the principal of Sub-loans and the payment of interest 
thereon; and 
(c)
keep at all times separate accounts for PROCOP and for other sub-accounts 
of FESB and take all such action as shall be necessary in order to prevent that monies 
which should be credited to PROCOP be credited to any of such other sub-accounts.
Section 2.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, loans financed out 
of funds credited to PROCOP (including Sub loans) shall be denominated and payable in 
cruzados, shall have repayment and grace periods which will not exceed from ten and 
Page  4
three years, respectively, and shall bear interest at a rate not lower than the 
Reference Rate, in the case of a Non-Privileged Sub-loan and at a rate, not lower than 
the Incentive Reference Rate, in the case of a Privileged Sub-loan. The principal of 
all Sub-loans shall be adjusted from time to time in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
(b)
The State and BADESP hereby acknowledge and agree to the rights conferred 
upon the Bank pursuant and subject to the conditions stipulated in Section 2.03 of the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement  of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the 
Schedule to this Agreement and, only in respect of Pollution Control Sub-projects, of 
paragraph (a) (ii) (l) of Section 2.07
of such Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) BADESP undertakes that, unless the Bank shall  otherwise 
agree, each Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby BADESP shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other  appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, the State, BNDES and 
BADESP, including the right of
BADESP, as administrator of PROCOP: (i) to request the Investment Enterprise to carry 
out and operate the Pollution Control Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate records; (ii) to request that: (1) the goods, works and services to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
for purposes of Part A.1 of the Project be procured in accordance with the regular 
procedures of the Investment Enterprises in question and that, in any event, said 
goods, works and services be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken, in 
the case of goods, also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and 
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and 
spare parts therefor, and,  in the case of works or services, of their quality and the 
competence of the parties rendering them, all under procurement procedures acceptable 
to BADESP; provided, however, that the procurement of civil works, and machinery and 
equipment, which are included in contracts for Sub-projects  and are estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $5,000,000 and $2,000,000,
respectively, or more, shall be governed by the provisions of sub-paragraph (v) of 
paragraph (e) of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and of the Schedule to this 
Agreement; and (2) such goods and services be used exclusively in the carrying out of 
the Sub-project; (iii) to inspect, by themselves or jointly with representatives of 
CETESB, or the Bank if the  Bank shall have so requested, such goods  and the sites, 
works, plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and 
any relevant records and documents; (iv) to request: (1) the Investment Enterprise to 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and 
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) that, 
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance covers hazards incident to 
the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity thereunder be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment 
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) to obtain all such information as the 
Borrower, or the Bank,  or BADESP, or CETESB shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Investment Enterprise; and (vi) to suspend or to terminate the right of the Investment 
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan relent under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under 
any contract with BADESP in its role as administrator of PROCOP.
(b)
BADESP, as administrator of PROCOP, shall exercise its rights in relation 
to each Pollution Control Sub-project in such manner as to: (i)  protect the interests 
of the Borrower, the Bank, the State, BNDES and CETESB; (ii) comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) The State, BADESP and CETESB shall furnish to the Bank all 
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of 
the proceeds of the Loan relent under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, Part A of the 
Page  5
Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Sub-projects, and the Sub-loans and the 
Grants.
(b)
The State, BADESP and CETESB shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, the obligations of BNDES and BADESP under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(c)
The State, BADESP and CETESB shall promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the 
State, BADESP and CETESB of its obligations under this Agreement and by the State, 
BNDES or BADESP under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) BADESP and CETESB shall enter into contractual arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of coordinating their respective functions in 
the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project.
(b)
CETESB shall enter with SABESP into contractual arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of coordinating their respective functions in 
the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project and establishing their respective 
responsibilities in respect of water pollution control in the GSPA.
(c)
BADESP and CETESB shall exercise their respective rights under the 
aforesaid contractual arrangements and comply with their respective obligations 
thereunder in such manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower, the Bank and the 
State, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, BADESP, CETESB or SABESP shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
any of such contractual arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.10. BADESP and CETESB shall carry out severally the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement and Part A.1 and Part A.2 of the Project, respectively.
Section 2.11. The State and BADESP, the latter as financial agent of  the State, 
shall duly perform all their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
.Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, neither the State nor BADESP 
shall take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
ARTICLE III
Additional Covenants of the State
Section 3.01. The State shall pay:
(a)
BADESP, out of the resources of PROCOP, a quarterly fee equivalent  to 
0.625% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of loans financed out of the 
proceeds of PROCOP at the end of each quarter; and
(b)
CETESB, out of the resources of PROCOP, a quarterly fee equivalent to 
0.25% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of loans financed out of the 
proceeds of PROCOP at the end of each quarter.
Section 3.02. The State shall, for purposes of Section 2.01 (b) and 2.03 of this 
Agreement and not later than December 31 in each year until  the Loan has been fully 
disbursed, make the necessary appropriations  in its budget on the basis of the 
Project budgets to be prepared in accordance with Sections 4.03 and 5.03 of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The State shall cause its agencies not to take any action which 
would prevent CETESB from applying the sanctions provided for in the State Pollution 
Control Legislation (including, but not limited to, the  suspension of operations of a 
Page  6
plants, and shall take, or cause to be taken,  all reasonable action necessary or 
appropriate to enable CETESB to apply such sanctions and to furnish to the Bank all 
such information on the subject as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.04. The State shall, as and when requested by CETESB pursuant to 
Section 5.05 (b) of this Agreement: (i) file a petition with the Borrower's Ministry 
of Urban Development and the Environment requesting the Borrower to take all such 
action as shall be required on the Borrower's part for purposes of the Federal 
Pollution Control Legislation; (ii) inform the Bank of any such petition; and (iii) 
furnish to the Bank all such information in respect of any such petition as the Bank 
shall reasonably request.
Section 3.05. The State shall cause SABESP to enter with CETESB into the 
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 2.09 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants of BADESP
Section 4.01. (a) BADESP shall maintain separate records and accounts adequate 
to record the progress of Part A.1 of the Project and of each Pollution Control 
Sub-project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect  in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
condition of BADESP as administrator of PROCOP.
(b)
BADESP shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and PROCOP's ccounts 
and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited in accordance with 
appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements and of the financial statements of 
PROCOP for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning BADESP, 
FESB, PROCOP, 
its other accounts and financial statements and the 
audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account for purposes of Part A of the Project were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, BADESP shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, as the case may be, until at least 
one year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) (i) of this Section and that 
the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted to the 
Bank by BNDES during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and 
Page  7
internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(v)
request from BNDES, CETESB and each Investment Enterprise, all 
such 
information as shall be convenient to enable BADESP 
to comply with the above 
requirements.
 
Section 4.02. BADESP shall enable the Bank's representatives to  inspect the 
records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 4.03. BADESP shall, not later than July 31 in each year, until  the Loan 
has been fully disbursed, prepare and furnish to the Bank through the Steering 
Committee a Project budget for the immediately succeeding year.
Section 4.04. BADESP undertakes, without any limitation or restriction upon its 
obligations under this Agreement, to take all such steps as shall be necessary to 
credit PROCOP, out of BADESP's own resources, with an amount equivalent to 25% of any 
amount written off by the State, in accordance with the Borrower's Central Bank 
regulations, in respect of each Sub-loan as a consequence of the lack of compliance by 
the Investment Enterprise in question with its obligations to make payments of 
principal outstanding of the Sub-loan in question and interest and other charges 
thereon; provided, however, that each crediting of PROCOP pursuant to the preceding 
provisions shall be made by BADESP by a date not later than nine months after the 
corresponding write-off. 
ARTICLE V
Additional Covenants of CETESB
Section 5.01. Whenever CETESB shall, for purposes of the carrying out of a 
Technical Assistance Sub-project, hire the services of an institution, such 
institution and the terms and conditions of the contract providing for such services 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. CETESB shall at least annually, adequately test sources of 
emission in each Investment Enterprise which is carrying out or has carried out a 
Pollution Control Sub-project.
Section 5.03. CETESB shall assist BADESP in the preparation of the  Project 
budgets referred to in Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. (a) CETESB shall maintain separate records and accounts adequate 
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures of CETESB in respect of each Technical Assistance Sub-project.
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, CETESB shall:
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted to the Bank by BNDES during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; 
and
Page  8
(v)
request from BNDES and BADESP all such information as shall be 
convenient to 
enable CETESB to comply with the above requirements.
 
Section 5.05. CETESB shall:
(a)
exercise its powers and fulfill its responsibilities under Article 6 of 
the State's Decree No. 8468, as amended by the State's Decree No. 15425 dated July 7, 
1980, and in accordance with the corresponding pollution control strategy that has 
been accepted by the Bank for purposes of the Project; and
(b)
Whenever CETESB shall have determined the need of closing a plant  of an 
industry referred to in the Federal Pollution Control Legislations request the State 
to file a petition with the Borrower for purposes of such Federal Pollution Control 
Legislation; (ii) inform the Bank of any such request; and (iii) furnish the Bank with 
all such information in respect of any such request or petition as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE VI
Management and Operations of BADESP and CETESB
Section 6.01. BADESP and CETESB shall carry on their respective operations and 
conduct their respective affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, 
banking (in the case of BADESP) and environmental protection (in the case of CETESB) 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 6.02. BADESP and CETESB shall at all times operate and maintain their 
respective facilities, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and  renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound practices.
Section 6.03. Each of BANESP and CETESB shall take out and maintain  with 
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice. 
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the  date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 7.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the State, 
of BADESP and CETESB thereunder shall terminate on the date on which  the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly 
notify each of the State, BADESP and CETESB thereof.
Section 7.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 8.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties  contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radio gram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
Page  9
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64125 (WUI)
For the State:
Governador do Estado de Sao Paulo
Palacio dos Bandeirantes - Av. Morumbi 4500
CEP 05598
Sao Paulo
Brasil
Telex:
(011) 23125
For BADESP:
Avenida Paulista, 1776
CEP 01310
Sao Paulo
Brasil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
DESENVOLVIMENTO
(011) 22763
Sao Paulo, Brasil
Section 8.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, pursuant to this Agreement, on behalf 
of the State, may be taken or executed by the Governor of the State or such other 
person or persons as he shall designate in writing. Any modification or amplification 
of the provisions of this Agreement may be agreed to on behalf of the State by written 
instrument executed on behalf of the State by such Governor or any person there unto 
authorized in writing by him; provided that, in the opinion of such representative, 
such modification or amplification is reasonable under the circumstances and will not   
substantially increase the obligations of the State under this Agreement. The Bank may 
accept the execution by such Governor or other person of any such instrument as 
conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such representative any modification or 
amplification of the provisions of this Agreement effected by such instrument is 
reasonable in the circumstances and will not substantially increase the obligations of 
the State hereunder.
(b)
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of  BADESP may be taken or 
executed by its President or such other person or persons as such President shall 
designate in writing, and BADESP shall  furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
(c)
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document  required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CETESB may be taken or 
executed by its President or such other person or persons as such President shall 
designate in writing, and CETESB shall  furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Page  10
Section 8.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF SAO PAULO
By /s/ Jose Machado de Campos Filho
Authorized Representative
BANCO DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO ESTADO
   DE SAO PAULO S.A. - BADESP
By /s/ Jose Machado de Campos Filho
Authorized Representative
CETESB - COMPANHIA DE TECNOLOGIA DE
   SANEAMENTO AMBIENTAL
By /s/ Jose Machado de Campos Filho
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods for Technical Assistance Sub-projects 
art for Part B of the Project, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Goods referred to above shall be grouped, to the extent possible, so as to form 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
Page  11
A  of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions: 
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(A)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such 
goods contain 
components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of 
the value of the complete goods.
(B)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other imports taxes levied in connection with the importation, and 
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to 
the bids, of the goods.  Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each 
other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it 
shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. 
bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of:  (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes, or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for the procurement of machinery and equipment under  Pollution 
Control Sub-projects, estimated to cost the equivalent of  $2,000,000 or more each, 
shall be awarded after obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers from at 
least two of the member countries of the Bank other than the Borrower (including, for 
the purpose of this paragraph,  Switzerland and Taiwan, China). Quotations shall be 
compared and evaluated in accordance with the Guidelines and no supplier shall be 
asked or allowed to change the substance or price of the quotation after it has been 
made.
2.
Contracts for goods for Pollution Control Sub-projects estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of $2,000,000 shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph a (ii) (1) of Section 2.07 of this Agreement.
3.
Goods for Technical Assistance Sub-projects or for Part B of the Project which 
are proprietary in nature or which, subject to the Bank's prior approval, need to be 
standardized, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations solicited from a list  of suppliers eligible under the Guidelines in 
a number that will vary as a function of the specifications of the goods in question, 
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Goods for Technical Assistance Sub-projects or for Part B of the  Project, which 
cannot be grouped in bidding packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of procurement procedures 
Page  12
satisfactory to the Bank other than those referred to in Part A of this Schedule.
5.
BADESP shall furnish, or cause the Investment Enterprise in question to furnish, 
all information that the Bank may reasonably request with regard to the procurement of 
items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final  contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payment for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement.
