                                                 Documentof
                                               The World Bank

                                        FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                 ReportNo: 36649-ID




                                    PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT


                                                    FORA


 PROPOSEDMULTIDONORTRUST FUND (MDTF) FORACEH AND NORTH SUMATRA


                                  INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$42MILLION

                                                    TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA


 THE AGENCY FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND REHABILITATION FORACEH AND NIAS
                                                     (BU)

                                                   FORTHE

                 INFRASTRUCTURERECONSTRUCTIONENABLING PROGRAM



                                                 June 19,2006




 UrbanDevelopment SectorUnit
 EastAsia andthe Pacific Region


Thls document has a restricted distribution andmaybe usedby recipients only inthe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 27,2006)


                      Currency Unit = IndonesianRupiah
                          IDR1,000 = US$0.000114
                             US$ 1 = IDR8,748.17

                                  FISCAL YEAR

                             January 1    - December31

                      ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ADB      AsianDevelopment Bank
BRR      Bureau for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction for Aceh andNias
CQ       Selectionbased on Consultants' Qualifications
EA       Environmental Assessment
EIA      Environment Impact Assessment
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
FM       Financial Management
GAM      Free Aceh Movement
GO1      Government o f Indonesia
IAP      Immediate Action Program
IBRD     International Bankfor Reconstruction andDevelopment
I C B    International Competitive Bidding
I C      IndividualConsultants
IDA      International Development Association
IFR      InterimFinancial Report
I P M    Infrastructure Program Management
IREP     Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program
JICA     JapanInternational Cooperation Agency
LARAP    LandAcquisition andResettlement Action Plan
MDF      Multi-Donor Trust Fundfor Aceh andNorth Sumatra
MOF      MinistryofFinance
MOU      Memorandumo f Understanding
N C B    National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Non-Government Organization
N S      National Shopping
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
P M U    Project Management Unit
PSC      Project Steering Committee
PU       Public Works Department
QBS       Quality-Based Selection
QCBS      Quality and Cost Based Selection
RFP       Request For Proposal
 SA       Special Account
 SOE
 sss      Statement o f Expenditure
          Single-Source Selection
TA        Technical Assistance

                                                                               FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

          TNI               IndonesianNational Army
          UN                UnitedNations
          UNICEF            UnitedNationsInternational Children's EmergencyFund




                                     Acting Vice President:     Jeffrey Gutman
                                          Country Director:     Andrew D.Steer
                            Sector Director/Sector Manager:     ChristianDelvoie/Keshav Varma
                                         Task Team Leader       Aniruddha Dasgupta




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                 INDONESIA

                                   Infrastructure Reconstruction EnablingProgram

                                                             Table of Contents



I.    Background.......................................................................................................................................... 1

I1.  Project Description...............................................................................................................................     4

I11 Project Costs.........................................................................................................................................
   .                                                                                                                                                        8

IV . Implementation Arrangements and InstitutionalDesign.....................................................................                               8

V.    Local Government Capacity Building ...............................................................................................                   10

VI. CoordinationwithotherReconstructionandRehabilitationActivities...........................................                                              10

VI1. ProcurementArrangements................................................................................................................               11

VI11. Financial ManagementandDisbursementArrangements................................................................                                      12

IX. SafeguardPolicies .......................................................................................................................

X .   Monitoring andEvaluation.,...............................................................................................................            16

XI. QualityEnhancementStrategy...........................................................................................................                  16

XI1. Sustainability andRisks.....................................................................................................................          17

XI11. Anti-corruptionAction Plan...............................................................................................................            22

XIV.Policy Exceptions andReadiness.......................................................................................................                  23

Annex 1: ProjectsResultsSummary...........................................................................................................                 24

Annex 2: Detailed Project Description.......................................................................................................               26

Annex 3: InstitutionalDesign and ImplementationArrangements............................................................                                    33

Annex 4: Financing and Implementation of Infrastructure ReconstructionProjects................................                                             37

Annex 5: LocalGovernment Capacity Building........................................................................................                         47

Annex 6: Coordination and Partnerships....................................................................................................                 57

Annex 7: ProcurementPlanand Assessment .............................................................................................                       58

Annex 8: FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements .........................................................                                        65

Annex 9: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework ....................................................................                               70

Annex 9a: Indigenous PeoplesPlanningFramework for TreatmentofIndigenous or
IsolatedVulnerable People..........................................................................................................................        85

Annex 10:Anti-Corruption Action Plan.....................................................................................................87

Annex 11: Summaries of IREP Technical AssistanceTermso f Reference..............................................                         93

Annex 12: Quality EnhancementStrategy................................................................................................    108

Annex 13: Project Preparationand Supervision.......................................................................................      110
MAP
IBRD34927

                                                         INDONESIA
                           INFRASTRUCTURE RECONSTRUCTIONENABLINGPROGRAM

                                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                             EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION

                                                            EASUR


Country Director: Andrew Steer
Sector DirectorISector Manager: Chstian                                               ervices, Risk Management
DelvoieIKeshav Varma



[ ] Loan     [ 3 Credit   [ X I Grant [ ] Guarantee[ ] Other:
Total Project Costs: US$42 million
MDFGrantAmount: US$42million
Government Contribution: N/A


          Borrower
            MDF                               X                            X                            42
            Total                             X                            X                            42
GrantRecipient: BRR
Responsible Agency: BRR
Address: Jl. Muhammad Thaher no. 20, Luena Bata, Banda Aceh 23247
Contact Person: Eddy Purwanto, Chief.Operating Officer
Estimated disbursements (CY/US$m)
FY                                 FY06                FY07               FY08                FY09
Annual                              3.0                15.0                13.0                 11.0
Cumulative                          3.0                18.0                31.0                42.0
Project implementation period: June 2006       End: Oct 2009
Expected closing date 6/26/09
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
                                                                                             [ ]Yes  [ X ]No
Does the project require any exceptions from Bankpolicies?                       [ ]Yes      [XINO
Have these been approvedby Bankmanagement?                                                  [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                     [[ ]Yes
                                                                                    ]Yes    [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?       [ X I Y e s [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?    [XIYes       [ ] No:
Project development objective: The objective o f the Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Programi s to support the
BRR'sstrategy for infrastructure reconstruction byprovidinghighqualitytechnical assistance(TA) inorder to ensure
that infrastructure program management, planning,design, andconstruction management follow adequate standards,
andto support BRRinoverall coordination o fthe infrastructure reconstructionprogram.
Project description [one-sentence summary o f each component]
      (i)   Infrastructure Program Management. Identificationo f broad needs andinitialprogramming, capital works
            programming, program andbudget management, procurement procedures, safety quality and
            environmental management, financial systems, and coordination with stakeholders.
      (ii)WestCoastInfrastructurePlanning,DesignandConstructionSupervision.Identificationofcommunity
            level infrastructure needs, survey, planninganddesign, investment andcost planning, economic, social and
            institutional analyses, detailed engineering designs, bidprocedures, procurement and construction

     (iii)NiasInfrastructurePlanning,Design,andConstructionSupervision.Planningandprojectpreparationwork
           for the Nias logistical area, focusing on transport and city infrastructure planningandprogram
           management, institutional design and implementation methods o f essential services delivery, technical
           design andprocurement, construction planningand management, and supervision.
     (iv) Strategic Infrastructure Project Planning, Designand Supervision. Formulation, investmentplanning,
           design, andproject preparation work for the major Provincial-level infrastructure strategic infrastructure
           works which now require reconstruction.
     (v) Financial Management o fBRR-financed Projects. Development andimplementation o fanefficient
           financial management (FM) framework requiredto ensure that BRRmeets all its fiduciary responsibilities
           withrespect to the projects it finances.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? The project will not have any large scale or irreversible adverse
environmental impacts. The project triggers the World Bank Safeguards Policies on Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP 4.01), Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.201, and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The project is classified as
environment Catenorv "B".
Significant, non-standard conditions, ifany: None

                                           TECHNICAL REPORT


I. Background

1.        More than a year has passed since the devastating tsunami and earthquake struck the Indian Ocean
inDecember 2004. InIndonesia, the disaster lulled or left missingmorethan230,000 people, anddestroyed
communities, infrastructure and livelihoods. The total reconstruction and development program for Aceh
and Nias i s estimated to cost between US$6-9 billion' (2005-2009); making it the largest reconstruction
program in the developing world. In addition to the physical damage, the disaster caused enormous
destruction to the economy and loss o f institutional capacity. While it appears Aceh may finally have
achieved peace between the government and GAM, the neglect to infrastructure and human development
from thirty years o fconflict adds to the reconstruction challenges.

2.        The people o f Indonesia and the international community have shifted from the initial emergency
phase to the recovery phase. In April 2005, the Government o f Indonesia (GoI) created a dedicated
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency - Badan Rehabilitasi dan Rekonstruksi (BRR) - to provide
leadership andmanagement across all aspects o frecovery.

3.        Following the disaster, the immediate need was to put in place humanitarian and disaster relief
programs; these were widely supported and successfully implemented by local, national and international
governments, agencies, NGOs and individuals. The first reconstructionpriority was the provision o fhousing
-thisprogramiswellunderway, with45 percentofthe overallrebuildingneedsinprogress.The second
reconstruction priority - which has made less progress - i s to rebuild and restore essential infrastructure
services, such as transport, roads, macro and local level drainage, water supply and sanitation, power
distribution,' and solid waste. Overarching these demands are the BRR's policy goals o f rebuilding to
improved standards (i.e,, building back better), strengthening local governments, and working with
communities.

4.        Sector overview. The estimate o f damage to the housing sector was US$1.4 billion, with the
demand for new houses now ranging from 93,000 to 120,000.2The housing program i s moving rapidly (and
generally in the absence o f supporting infrastructure) - by the end o f April 2006, an estimated 35,000
houses have been completed, with up to 20,000 under construction. Ensuring quality o f finished works and
providing sufficient supporting infrastructure are the key sector priorities.

5.        Damage to the water and sanitation infrastructure (water treatment installations, water tanker trucks,
piping networks, wells, vacuum trucks, and sludge treatment plants, roads, drainage, power, sea defenses
etc.) i s estimated at US$35 million. But both physical infrastructure and staffing were limited before the
tsunami (no sewerage systems and less than 30 percent o f the population provided with piped water), so
building back better will require substantially more investment than simply replacing what was lost. The
basic needs are generally being met, but development o f sustainable networks and the institutional
arrangements necessary to operate andmaintain sector investments are required.

6.        The progress o f spatial and infrastructure development planning i s mixed. At the sub-district level,
numerous donors, NGOs, and the government have produced community mapping and development plans
but hardly any infrastructure planning. These efforts have succeeded in involving communities in the
planning process, articulating community priorities and vision, and creating the foundations for the
reestablishment o f land rights. However, the early approaches were not standardized and quality varies.


* PermanentHousingBrief,
' Referto December  2005 report AcehandNias One Year After the Tsunami: The RecoveryEffort andWay Forward.
                           February 16,2006, UN-HABITAT.


                                                        1

Many community mapshillage spatial plans were made before the release o f post-tsunami aerial
photography, not developed on accurate base maps, and lack topographic details - thus limitingtheir utility
for implementation. At the district level, the availability o f updated spatial and infrastructure development
plansis limited.

7.       Role o f the Aceh-Nias Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency (BRR). The Go1 established a
ministerial-level Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency (BRR) to lead the recovery and emphasize a
community-driven process. BRR's primary mission was to develop standard operating procedures and to
provide coordination, leadership, and quality control o f the activities financed by BRR or underway by
donor and NGOs.          However, the BRR has undergone continuous organizational and managerial
strengthening - and now has been given the additional power, under revised Kepress 80, to implement
housing reconstruction projects through direct contracting. This will enable it to respond to gaps in poorly
performing programs, by being able to assume responsibility for those programs, or to reassign them to
another agency. BRR i s also strengthening its presence and coordination at the district and sub-district level
through newly established regional offices. BRR has givenpriority to engaging district governments - the
ultimate aim i s to increase capacity o f province and district authorities to allow a gradual shift of decision-
making, management, and implementation responsibility from BRRto facilitate its exit in2009.

8.       BRR's continued priorities are to: (i)strengthen coordination between donors and government
agencies; (ii)  ensure pledges for infrastructure are prioritized and matched with sector needs; (iii)  improve
the quality and pace o f infrastructure supporting housinghettlements; (iv) develop institutional and financial
resources for sustainable infrastructure operations and services after BRR's operating period ends; (v)
improve cost-effectiveness through competitive procurement; and (vi) increase the efficiency and flexibility
o f the capital works planning and budgeting process.

9.       Logistical areas and infrastructure initiatives. BRR has divided its overall infrastructure program
framework - the Aceh-Nias Tsunami and Post-earthquake Reconstruction Program- into five logstic areas
and five broadlydefined initiatives.


BRR's logistical areas (and respective districts) inorder of severity of damage are asfollows:

1. North Coast (Banda Aceh, Aceh Besar and Sabang);
2.   West Coast (Aceh Jaya, Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singkil and
     Simeulue);
3.   Nias (Nias andNias Selatan);
4. East Coast (Pidie, Bireuen, Aceh Utara, Aceh Timur, Aceh Tamiang and Lhokseumawe); and
5.   MiddleAceh (Bener Meriah, Aceh Tengah, Gay0 Lues and Aceh Tenggara).

BRR's mainInfrastructure Initiativesinclude:

1. Secondary District Level infrastructure supporting the housinglshelter programs, including water,
     sanitation, drainage, solid waste management, and transport infrastructure.
2. Sea defense, flood control, early warning andtsunami refuge initiative
3.   Primary and Secondary Provincial Level infrastructure including intra settlementhillage roads,
     connector roads and ports, power, water resources, etc.
4. Economic infrastructure
5.   A separateNiasprogram




                                                       2

10.      BRR's Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy. To determine the allocation of remaining MDF
resources andto provide a strategic approach to infrastructure design andmanagement, BRRhas outlined an
Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy. This strategy serves as a framework for tailored to addressing
infrastructure needs at the district and provincial levels - the infrastructure linking communities. The core
approach i s to engage local governments, in collaboration with affected communities, to prioritize and
manage their own infrastructure needs within a framework o f strong planning and oversight by BRR, with
appropriate technical assistance (TA).3

11.      Although sufficient funds have been pledged to support rehabilitation and reconstruction inAceh,
the current allocation o f funds already programmed by the government and donors will not meet the
minimumneeds incertain critical areas. BRR's strategy, therefore, is to focus on the remaining available
funds to ensure that they are allocated to cover these gaps. Of the donor resources, the MDFi s the largest
source o f programmable funds with approximately US$150 million available, with the potential for
raising additional funds. BRR's medium-term strategy for the MDF comprises four mainpriorities:

12.      Remaining MDF resources should be predominantly used for the reconstruction and development
(i.e., building back better) o f infrastructure, broadly defined, at the housing plot, community, and
district/provincial levels. The provision o f infrastructure should be closely matched with capacity building
efforts for local and provincial governments through learning by doing approach and community
participation for enhanced governance to prepare for the BRR's handover o f recovery activities to local and
provincial governments in2009.

13.      Though the initial focus will be on the areas most damaged by the tsunami and earthquake (with a
particular focus on Nias), infrastructure support and related capacity buildingshould be gradually extended
to districts o fAceh where years of conflict stunted economic and human development.
The considerable financial needs and limited sources o f programmable finds necessitate closer integration
andco-financing, where feasible, between the MDF,local and provincial governments, andBRR.

14.      This strategy will also address potential problems in the sequencing o f the reconstruction program.
Inparticular, one primary challenge is ensuring that infrastructure reconstruction adequately supports and
keeps pace with the housing reconstruction program. The housing reconstruction program i s currently
moving forward, largely in the absence o f supporting infrastructure. This gap affects the cost, quality o f
delivery, and the final product, making it necessary to retrofit infrastructure services inthe immediate future.
This issue could cause serious problems later in 2006, when it i s estimated that up to 72,000 houses will be
constructed.

15.      Phasing o f infrastructure support. The BRR Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy encompasses
three phases: (i)  the execution o f the ongoing MDF-supported ImmediateAction Plan (IAP) agreed upon in
November 2005 to meet urgent infrastructure needs; (ii)the proposed Infrastructure Reconstruction
Enabling Program (REP), which would provide technical assistance for the mobilization o f human
resources and technical support to BRR, provincial, and local governments; and (iii)investment in
infrastructure works by BRR and other donors, including through a proposed Aceh Infrastructure
Reconstruction Facility.

16.      The first phase, the IAP, addresseskey infrastructurebottlenecks - existingand anticipated. BRRi s
implementingthis program through four partner agencies, the World Food Program (WFP), United Nations


  InJuly 2005, the MultiDonor Fund(MDF)approveda technicalsupport projectto BRRfor US$14.7 million, which
provides BRR with additional funding, to enable BRR to recruit consultants and advisors with the best skills and
expertise available. The IREP TA is distinct fromthis program, and from other TA providedto BRR, as it is specific to
the implementation and supervision o f infrastructure investments.


                                                            3

Development Program (UNDP), Catholic Relief Services (CRS), and MuslimAid. The projects covered by
these agencies include sea delivery and logistics, ports, road and bridge repairs, and drainage and flood
protection works, respectively. These projects lay some o f the groundwork for the implementation o f the
second and thirdphases o f the Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy.

17.      The proposed MDF-funded Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP) i s the second
phase o f the Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy. It will provide technical assistance and additional
human resource capacity over a three-year period to assist the BRR in implementing the proposed third
phase o fthe strategy, which provides fundingfor investment to targeted infrastructureprojects. This TA will
provide direct support to BRR in the form o f an Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) team and
financial management advisors; it will also mobilize technical teams to work closely with the local
governments inthe West Coast andNias, andat the provincial level. IREP i s designed to work with the pre-
existing infrastructure efforts and strategies o f the government and numerous agencies and donors. The
local government and provincial level teams will buildproject management capacity, prepare infrastructure
development plans, feasibility studies, detailed designs, comprehensive procurement planning and support,
andwill provide construction supervision for infrastructure de~elopment.~

18.      The third phase o f the Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy will initiate infrastructure investment
and construction. BRR has proposed that an Aceh Infrastructure Reconstruction Facility, co-financed by
BRR, MDF and local governments, be created to provide an annual allocation of funds for the
reconstruction o f basic infrastructure to each o f the disaster affected districts, with additional oversight,
monitoring, and quality control provisions.

19.      Rationale for MDF involvement. The BRR's approach o f utilizing available resources from the
MDF inthe context o f its overall rehabilitation and reconstruction strategy will allow the identification o f
broad priorities, set out key projects that are intended to be submitted to the MDF and other sources o f
funding for review over the coming year, andclarify how these priorities andprojects fit within the broader
range o f activities financed from other sources. This project directly supports this strategy through its focus
on improving infrastructure reconstruction support, management, and oversight to the BRR and local and
provincial governments through the mobilization o f international and national consultant services. It also
focuses on three logistical areas that sustained significant damage due to the tsunami and earthquake
disasters.

11.      ProjectDescription

20.      Objectives. The objective o f the proposed Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP)
i s to support the BRR's strategy for infrastructure reconstruction by providing high quality technical
assistance (TA) services in infrastructure program management, planning, design, construction
management, quality management and program monitoring. The Project will support BRR in overall
coordination o f the infrastructure reconstruction program. .Through IREPprograms,       between US$330-400
million o finfrastructure projects will be developed and implemented (between 5-6% cost for design through
construction supervision works), with the capability to provide overall management support to the BRR's
larger infrastructure reconstruction program. To achieve this goal, the proposed TA will: (i) the BBR
                                                                                                 assist
in the strategic planning, programming and implementation of infrastructure development and
reconstruction through an Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) team; (ii)         provide technical support
and capacity building to local government on identification, design, (including preparation o f tender
documents) construction supervision, and monitoring o f projects in the West Coast o f Aceh; (iii)      provide
technical support and capacity buildingto local government on identification, design, (including preparation

4 Localplanningfor the NorthCoast is being supportedby ongoing TA throughBRR's InfrastructureReconstruction
Strategy.


                                                       4

o f tender documents) construction supervision, and monitoring o f projects inNias; (iv) give support at the
provincialhational level for planning, design and implementation o f strategic infrastructure not under the
purview o f local governments; and, (v) provide financial management advisory services to enable BRR to
meet its fiduciary requirements. The higher level development objective to which this project contributes i s
sustainable post-tsunami infrastructurereconstruction and development inAceh and Nias.

21.      The key performance indicators for these development objectives are:

    (i)     Development o f a sustainable and strategic long-term infrastructurereconstructionplanfor Aceh
            andNias;
    (ii)    Donors and other stakeholders are consulted on the infrastructure reconstructionplananddesign
            projects that support implementation o f the strategy;
   (iii)    Technical designs created duringproject appraisal ensure appropriate quality measures have been
            included;
    (iv)    Consultant teams andlocal andprovincial governments prepare projects that incorporate     -
            adequate procurement andfinancial management practices and safeguards measures;
    (v)     The scale of funding committed to implement projects submitted by local and provincial
            governments to BRR as part o f their AIPs;
    (vi)    Projects are o f higher quality standards than those prepared and implemented prior to the TA;
   (vii)    Increased participationo flocal andprovincial government staffto incorporate appropriate
            safeguards measures and financial management and procurement practices duringproject design
            andimplementation.

22.      Project components. The proposed US$42 million MDFprogram consists o f five focused, results-
oriented consultancy TA components that will be implementedover a three year period. A detailed
description o f the project components i s provided inannex 2. Summaries o f the terms o f reference for the
first three components are provided in annex 11.

     a) Component 1        -  Infrastructure Program Management (US$19.5 million) will support the
         mobilization o f a highly skilled Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) team deployed within
         the existing BRR structure to coordinate infrastructure programand its activities at the macro level.
         These experts would provide assistance to BRR in eight specific areas: (i)overall strategic
         infrastructure planning for Aceh and Nias, as per the BRR Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy;
         (ii)management o f the infrastructure reconstructionprogram inAceh andNias; (iii) o f local
                                                                                               review
         and provincial governments' plans for infrastructure investment as a basis for BRR funding; (iv)
         quality control, supervision, andmonitoring o f BRR-funded infrastructure projects; (v) procurement
         support; (vi) safeguard support for BRR-funded infrastructure projects; (vii)anti-corruption support
         for BRR-funded infrastructure projects; and (viii) management and coordination o f other IREP
         consultant teams. At all times, Consultants in Components 2, 3, 4, & 5 report directly to the BRR,
         not the IPM Consultants. The first two tasks o f this component refer to the entire infrastructure
         reconstruction program throughout Aceh and Nias, as these areas encompass the work o f both the
         government and other development partners. The remaining six activities focus on BRR funded
         activities. The IPMteam will take a proactive role inprogram management and be responsible for
         maintainingand demonstrating transparency and accountability across all processes. The IPMteam
         will be mobilized around October 2006. Hence, it may not be able to provide support to BRR for
         the 2007 budget cycle. To fill this gap, BRR i s planning to use existing TA to provide similar
         services.

     b) Component 2 - West Coast Infrastructure Planning, Design, and Construction Supervision (US$lO
         million) will finance a technical team to undertake the planning, project preparation, and




                                                        5

         implementation work for the West Coast logistical area'. This team will provide assistance to the
         local governments in three main areas: (i)strategic planning; and (ii)project design and
         implementation; and (iii)    institutional development support, including the development o f a long
        term maintenance strategy, and training. The assignment requires a project team with skills in
         infrastructure planning and program management, institutional development, implementation
        methods o f essential services delivery, technical design andprocurement, construction planningand
        management, and construction supervision. All work will be conducted in close collaboration with
        local governments andpublic works and in consultation with local communities. The Consultants
        will work with, and where feasible, integrate existing plans (spatial, community maps, etc) and
        coordinate with related planning and infrastructure on-going works inthe project area. Further, the
        Consultant will consult closely with community stakeholders at all stages o f the project cycle.

        Component 3      - Nias Infrastructure Planning, Design, and Construction Supervision (US$5 million)
        will support mobilization o f a technical team to undertake the planning, project preparation, and
         implementation work for the Nias logistical area. The work will focus on, but i s not limited to
        repairing the transport network. The consultant team will provide assistance to these local
         governments in three main areas: (i)     strategic planning; (ii) design and implementation; and
                                                                             project
         (iii)institutional development support and training. All work will be conducted in close
         collaboration with local governments and public works and inconsultation with local communities.
        Further, the Consultant will consult closely with community stakeholders at all stages o f the project
        cycle.

        Component 4 - Strategic Infrastructure Project Planning, Design, and Construction Supervision
        (US$6 million) will finance a technical consulting team to undertake the formulation, investment
        planning, design, and project implementation work o f strategic infrastructure projects that are at the
        provincial and or national level, or with local governments not covered by components 2 and 3.
        This component i s designed to strengthen the ability o f BRR and that o fthe relevant governments to
        carry out project identification, appraisal, and implementation. The Provincial government will
        participate in selection and development o f the `strategic projects' and participate in the
        management o f the TA consultants. The types o f projects to be financed under this TA include
        infrastructure, such as ports, airports, and key roads managed by provincial, national or local
        government entities.

        Component 5 - Financial Management o f BRR-financed Projects (US$1.5 million) will strengthen
        BRR's capacity to putinplace the financialmanagement frameworkrequiredto ensure that itmeets
        all its fiduciary responsibilities with respect to this TA and other BRR investment projects. This
        assistance will be provided by experts located within BRR.Financialmanagement o f BRR-financed
        projects will include P M U and PIUs to establish and maintain financial accounting and statement
        arrangements for project activities undertaken and expenditures incurred at all project locations,
        including monitoring the operation o f internal controls over implementation o f the contracts. This
        component includes an external audit o f the project financial statements by the country's Supreme
        Audit Board (BPK). However, in view of capacity constraints at BPK, it is requested the audit be
        sub-contracted to reputable private sector firms acceptable to the Bank. The related external audit
        cost i s includedinthis component.

        Lessons learned and reflected in the project design. Numerous lessons have been learned from
review o f reconstructionefforts to date.6The design o f the project takes into account the following:



 Aceh Jaya, Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, Aceh BaratDaya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singkil and Simeulue
6Refer to December 2005 reportAceh andNias One Year After the Tsunami: The Recovery Effort and Way Forward.


                                                          6

           The need for supplemental capacity in the BRR to implement and supervise infrastructure
           projects. BRR has developed quickly, but as a consequence it has not yet adapted to the demands
           o f project management. The BRR's Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy and IREP are wide-
           ranging in scope and geographic coverage. The management and technical expertise required to
           develop and realize a strategic vision, will require staffing up and mobilizing experts with
           international experience. This additional support will also ensure that high-quality plans, designs
           and construction standards are integrated andimplemented duringreconstruction.
           Although the capacity o f local and provincial governments i s low, it i s imperative that they
           identify their priorities within a framework o f good practice. Infrastructure projects will be
           prioritized by local and provincial governments and subsequently reviewed by the BRR's IPM
           Consultants to ensure feasibility, quality, and consistency within the broader infrastructure
           reconstruction program. Projects will be based upon technical plans and designs developed by
           professional engineering design teams working closely with local planningauthorities. Local and
           provincial government staff will learn best practice management and oversight processes as they
           work with the consultant teams. This method will help localize the reconstruction strategy and
           create ownership o f the infrastructurereconstructionand development.
           Coordination across development partner and government reconstruction programs i s essential.
           T h i s lesson cannot be overstated; although the BRR i s tasked with coordination o f all recovery
           efforts in Aceh and Nias, many gaps remain. This proposed TA will address the issue by
           providing a strong management structure for the coordination o f the reconstruction o f medium-
           scale infrastructure projects across development partners, local and provincial governments, and
           the BRR with the goal o f expediting reconstruction activities and strengthening the quality o f the
           investments.
           Lessons learned from similar projects under implementation. The design of this proposedproject
           takes into account experiences gleaned from other infrastructure reconstruction projects being
           implemented in Aceh and Nias under the umbrella o f the MDF. Such lessons include (i)            the
           need for, and returns from, allocating sufficient resources for close supervision o f works to
           ensure quality construction, and (ii)the importance o f engaging communities and other
           stakeholders throughout the project cycle.

24.     Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection. Options for delivering the investments to the
level o f quality as envisioned under IREP are limited in the context o f conditions in Aceh and Nias.
However, the following approaches were considered:

           Use local governments or public works (PUS)as implementing agencies o f the TA. Inthis case,
           the wide geographical range o f the project would mean the involvement o f many implementing
           agencies, with the consequential difficulty in managing the service delivery to a common
           standard. Additionally, the institutionalcapacity o fthe local governments and PUSi s insufficient.
           Finance overall support to BRR without focusing solely on infrastructure. Key to recovery in
           Aceh and Nias i s the provision o f access, water and sanitation, transport and other essential
           infrastructure. Other donors are focusing on support to social and other areas o f BRR work,
           leaving infrastructure as a gap to be filled by other sources. In addition, the UNDP-led MDF
           project supporting the overall capacity o f the BRR has already been implemented to provide
           cross-sectoral specialists to the BRR for a fixed period o f time.
           Break the TA into smaller, separate packages. If the TA were divided into smaller units (for
           example, divide up the design and capacity buildingcomponents), it would be more complex to
           procure due to increased transaction costs and multiple contracts. This approach would not be
           feasible to deliver under the tight timeframe in the context o f the affected communities'
           emergency reconstruction needs. Further, there would be a loss in continuity between
           assignments that would lead to delays andreduced quality o fworks.



                                                       7

           Bundle the TA and the investment phases together instead o f separating them. BRR does not
           have adequate staffing and financial management systems in place to manage a multi-million
           dollar reconstruction program for infrastructure. It i s justifiable to put in place systems for
           planning, design, supervision and quality assurance inadvance o f the investment phase to ensure
           smooth implementation and better adherence to safeguards policies.
           Suggest that the BRR use its own funds to procure consultants. BRR i s allowed to contract
           international expertise using its own funds. However, this procurement method limits the salary
           for which the consultant i s eligible, which hinders the hiringo f top international experts. As the
           infrastructure reconstruction i s occurring at such a massive scale, there i s insufficient local
           experience with this type o f program. Thus, it i s necessary BRR hire some international
           consultants with this specific experience to assist in the design and implementation of
           infrastructure duringthe reconstructionphase.
           Execution of the project by the Bank. The team considered Bank execution o f the project to
           facilitate faster implementation. However, this alternative was rejected since it would dilute the
           long tern development o f ownership and capacity buildingo f local government and institutions,
           which are amongthe core objectives o fthe TA.

111.     ProjectCosts

25.      The estimated cost o f the technical assistance required to undertake the above assignments i s
displayed below inTable 1.
                               Table 1:IREPCosts and ProposedSourcesof Funding




IV.     ImplementationArrangementsandInstitutionalDesign

26.     BRR has established a Project Management Unit (PMU) to coordinate and oversee day-to-day
implementation o f the TA at the macro level, which includes management o f the Infrastructure Program
Management (IPM) team, donor coordination, procurement practices, safeguards policies, fiduciary
management o f BRR investments, monitoring o f project progress, and the development o f a strategic
infrastructure reconstruction plancovering Aceh andNias. BRR has appointed the Deputyo f Infrastructure
as Chief o f the PMU, who will also serve as Task Leader o f the IPMteam. Sitting within the PMU will be
an IREP Secretariat, responsible for daily work to support the functions o f the PMU. A full-time Chief o f
PMU Secretariat will be appointed to administer the Secretariat work program and staff. BRR will be
responsible for equipping the Secretariat with qualified staff. Inaddition, a full time contract officer for each
contract will be part o f the Secretariat.



                                                      8

Successhl execution o f the IREP program requires that many BRR units work together in a coordinated
fashion. The P M U will liaise closely with other BRR units to coordinate activities and maximize the use o f
existing expertise within the organization. For example, the PMU Procurement Advisory team working
under the umbrella o f the PMU will work with the central BRR procurement team to ensure consistency
across all BRR programs. The IPM safeguards consultants will provide support to the land acquisition and
environmental safeguards teams within BRR. In addition, the financial management team, and its
supplemental consultants provided through the TA, i s responsible for coordinating with the Deputy o f
Finance and Planning.

27.      The three TA components focused on implementation at the local and provincial levels will be
carried out in partnership with local public works (PU). For the West Coast and Nias TA, the consultant
teams will be based in local government offices to build capacity o f local staff in areas o f strategic project
identification, design, implementation and supervision, and maintenance. This mechanism would also
consolidate asset ownership o f the new infrastructure services, enhancing sustainability prospects. As local
governments are in the process o f identifjrlng critical infrastructure projects and completing their Annual
Investment Plans, the PU staff will coordinate with and incorporate feedback from both Bappeda officials
and the Bupati/Walikota.         This  process    will integrate the      views   and   inputs o f affected
communitieshtakeholders. The Bupati/Walikota will coordinate directly with BRR's Executive Board
throughout this process. The consultant team working with the local andprovincial governments will report
directly to its r-n-five Task Leader within the PMU, which i s supportedby IPMconsultants.

28.      The progress o f the project will be monitored by the BRR Infrastructure Board (IB),which i s
comprised o f Deputy Directors o f Housing, Finance and Planning,Infrastructure, InstitutionalDevelopment.
The Chief Operating Officer (COO) serves as board chair o f the program. The IBi s responsible for overall
guidance related to donor coordination, monitoring progress o f the reconstruction program, and resolving
multi-sectoral issues. The IB will meet every month during the first few months o f project implementation
to provide additional oversight, and then will hold bimonthly meetings for the duration o f project
implementation. Detailed implementation arrangements for the project are shown in annexes 3 (technical
assistance) and4 (investment phase).




                                                      9

V.       Local GovernmentCapacityBuilding

29.      Both the post-disaster and post-conflict conditions have paralyzed local government activities in
Aceh and Nias, leaving local governments no choice but to rely on the well intentioned, but often
overwhelming supply of donor andNGO assistance. Inaddition, existinglocal governments are not properly
equipped, many staff members are not adequately trained, further specialists may be required, and the
organizations do not have the necessary routines, facilities, equipment and overall institutional competence
for sustainable, economic development and operations and maintenance.

30.      Complementary to consultations with local and provincial governments, a brief analysis was
conducted to assess the gaps and overlaps o f donor capacity building programs over the past 6 months
(10/05-3/06). Additional information on the analysis and recommendations i s given in annex 5. Analysis
shows that donor programs focused on local government capacity building for infrastructure development
fall under the following themes: housing, water supply and sanitation, hazard risk management, safeguards,
environmental management, and community infrastructure planning. Inthe 11 kabupaten locations where
the IREPplans to work, the highest concentration o f donor support i s inBanda Aceh, Aceh Besar andAceh
Jaya. Almost all eleven donor infrastructure programs mapped incorporate hazard risk management andor
environmental maintenance/management programs and trainings. Mapping o f capacity building programs
also revealed donor programs' primary targets are communities at the sub-district and village level. There
are not many activities directly targeting district governments.

31.      A participatory program targeting local governments to build competence for identification,
management and supervision o f infrastructure projects would be an appropriate approach for JREP.
Recommendations for        areas o f intervention include program planning, design,            procurement,
implementation, supervision, environment and social safeguards compliance, maintenance o f BRR-funded
projects, and collaboration with other donors working on similar issues, such as USAID'S Local Governance
Support Program (LGSP) and GoI's Support for Poor and DisadvantagedAreas (SPADA) program. The TA
consultancies under REP will also work in cooperation with local institutions, such as universities and
government training centers, which can benefit from this project and possibly continue to provide similar
services to local governments inAceh and Nias.

32.      BRRhas initiatedefforts to coordinate IREPwiththe activities oflocalandprovincial governments,
and major donors through workshops and field visits. During project appraisal, local and provincial
governments were consulted' on the concept o f IREP and its likely implementation arrangements. Local
governments expressed their support, recognition o f the need for this technical assistance, and the
importance o f close collaborative arrangements with the IREP consultant teams. Local governments are
anticipated to provide co-financing for IEWP projects - it i s too early to obtain details and commitments
from local governments now - but it may be through counterpart financing for identified projects, or
fundingthroughthe local govemment budget.

VI.      Coordinationwith other ReconstructionandRehabilitationActivities

33.      The IREP consultancies cover a broad scope o f works (technical assistance, capacity building,
project design and implementation, program management, coordination, and monitoring) and operate with
BRR, provincial government, local government, donors, and stakeholders. The success o f IREP greatly
depends on coordination and partnershipswith the numerous parties involved inreconstruction activities.


'TheBRR    IREP Government Workshop (March 26,2006, Banda Aceh) was attendedby 70 participants fiom affected
local governments andprovincialagencies.


                                                        10

REP is designed to complement existing TA, studies, programs, consultancies, and facilitate local and
provincial government involvement, The IREP consultancies will first utilize the existing plans and
programs (when technically and economically feasible) o f local and provincial governments, NGOs, and
donors for the basis o f all o f its work.

34.      Coordination andpartnerships will be essential for the REP consultants to conduct work across the
three primaryareasof support, which include:

(1)      Work Across Infrastructure Sectors - IREP will work through existing coordination channels, and
         use existing sector strategies (when feasible) and on-going TA as the basis o f its work. IREP will
         also seek to improve sector coordination and monitoring. Planned and on-going capital works
         programs will be integrated into the planning, design, phasing, and prioritization and
         implementation o f infi-astructure projects. IREP consultants at the local and provincial level will
         utilize and seek to implement existing development plans (where feasible).

(ii) SumorttoBRR-TheIREPInfrastructureProgramManagement(IPM)teamwillbuildontheon-
         going work of the numerous TA programs currently mobilized to assist BRR.The I P M consultants
         will be expected to form partnerships and strengthen coordination and integration o f works within
         andacrossBRRdepartments.

(iii) Sumort to Local Governments - Little overlap or duplicationis anticipatedbetweenexisting
         programs supporting local governments and the IREP consultants' work. Partnerships should be
         developed with other donors/NGOs to strengthen implementation of IREP capacity strengthening
        program fhctions. The consultant teams will closely liaise at all times with the district governments
         (Offices o f the Bupati, Bappeda, Public Works, and other relevant agencies) and will keep them
         hlly engaged as work proceeds. To assure buy-in and sustainability o f IREP investments, local
         governments need to act as partners in all decisions affecting their jurisdiction. All work will be
         integrated with current local government managed studies, designs, and planning initiatives.
         Further, IREP will build local government capacity and seek ways to transfer the consultant's
         expertise and experience to the local governments.

35.      Inadditionto local governments, as mentioned inthe previous section, primarydonors involved in
infrastructure and shelter reconstruction were consulted on the project concept and implementation
arrangements. The groups then discussed how these would interface with current donor andNGO activities.'
There was widespread support for the program's approach and objectives. BRR explained to participants
how activities would be coordinated with ongoing work -no significant concerns were raised by donors. A
chart highlightingother donor activities by sector i s presented inannex 6.

VII.     ProcurementArrangements

36.     Procurement for IREP will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in
the Grant Agreement. Given the emergency nature o f the project special procurement provisions have been
agreed on an exceptional basis, which are outlined in annex 7. These are mainly to allow use o f selection
based on Consultant's Qualifications for two of the large contracts.




8BRR IREP Donor Workshop (March 18, 2006, Banda Aceh) was attended by 50 participants representing primary
donors, NGOs, and companies involved ininfrastructure and shelter reconstruction activities.


                                                       11

The procurement will be mainly the selection o f five large consultancy assignments to provide TA to BRR
and the local governments on the planning, design and supervision o f infrastructure projects which will be
financed under a separateproject.

37.      A Procurement Capacity Assessment (PCA) of BRR was conducted in Aceh during February 22-
23, 2006. The assessment concluded that the procurement risk under the project i s rated as highdue to the
following: (a) no track history for BRR in procurement and in particular selection o f consultants for high
value contracts; (b) although the number o f the procurement packages i s limited, the high value o f the
packages and the complexity o f the assignments are major factors inincreasing the difficulty o f the selection
process;   (c) the need to deliver the project on a fast-track basis; and, (d) general weakness o f the
procurement environment and collusive practices under past World Bank projects in the country at large.
Mitigation measures to address these findings o f the PCA have been agreed and are outlined in detail in
annex 7 andinthe Anti-Corruption Action Plan (annex 10).

38.      The main mitigation measure to address the capacity issue i s the recruitment o f procurement
advisory team (PA) to assist BRR inthe procurement under this project. The PA will comprise experts who
will work together with the BRR on the different tasks inthe procurement process for these contracts. This
team will be financed by DFIDand i s expected to be mobilizedby grant effectiveness.

VIII. Financia1Management andDisbursementArrangements

39.      Overall, the project financial management risk i s assessed as being substantial. This financial
management (FM) assessment has concluded that, with the implementation o f the FMaction plan, the risks
will be substantially mitigatedand the proposed financial management arrangements will satisfy the Bank's
minimumrequirementsunder OP/BP10.02 and are adequate to provide, withreasonable assurance, accurate
and timely information on the status o f the grant requiredby the Bank.Additional information on financial
management i s available inannex 8.

40.      Risk assessment summary. The financial management assessment indicates significant capacity
constraints within BRR. These constraints arise from factors such as a sharp increase in the volume o f
financial transactions that are likely to take place inBRR, especially during the first year o f this operation,
as BRR's responsibilities extend from a coordinating role to one o f actively managing development
expenditure. Several important preparatory steps in the organization have been completed, such as the
activation o f BRR internal audit activities based on a work program that has already been prepared and the
finalization o f a financial management manual to guide accounting staff. The inexperience o f BRR's project
management staff to manage relatively large and complex technical assistance contracts with diverse and
not easily measurable outputs under this project could overwhelm internal financial controls and increase
financial management risks. Based on these factors, financial management risks inherent in the project
entity havebeenrated as substantial.

41.      Budgeting. As with other government projects, h d s under this project need be placed in the
government budget and follow existing government budgetingprocess. However, given the urgent nature o f
this project, andsince it is funded from grant sources, the budget allotment document (RKA-KL)couldbe in
a consolidatedsummarized format. In parallel, the budget authorization document PIPA) would also be
made ina consolidated format andbe prepared inparallelwith budget realization, which will be under direct
payment procedures.

42.      Accounting and financial reporting. Accounting for grant transactions will be done using the
government accounting software (SAT) that BRR currently uses. BRR uses SA1 for all sources o f funds,
regardless o f whether they are on or off budget. These software applications have standard accounting
controls inplace. However, the software does not have a feature on contract management. Therefore, there


                                                       12

i s a need to modify the software to include contract management functions. This application will inform
BRR of the latest commitment o f the budget. Currently IBM provides technical assistance to develop
software to enable BRR to present contracts that have been committed. Accounting standards to be adopted
will be government accounting standards. The Chart o f Accounts o f the SAI is not flexible enough to allow
reportingby components/categories to serve the reportingneeds o f the Bank.

43.      To have better project information, grant expenditures and activities will be reported to the Bank
under Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) on a quarterly basis. The IFRs may be prepared using a separate
stand-alone spreadsheet. This would include information on procurement progress, physical progress o f
budgeted activities, and financial sources and use o f funds. Formats for these reports would be agreed before
negotiations. Quarterly IFRs should be received by the Bank no later than 30 days after the end o f each
quarter. To ensure consistency o f the IFRswith Go1reporting, the aggregates inthe IFRs will be reconciled
periodically with the aggregates in the S A I for grant transactions. All financial transactions should be
recorded properly and supported with adequate evidence that the recipient i s as intended according to the
grant objectives. The audited annual financial statements should be made publicly available to ensure
transparency.

44.      Internal controls and internal audit. The internal auditor will conduct a review o f the intemal control
systems within BRR and implementingDinas. The terms o freference for this review should be expanded to
include the procurement and expenditure under the project. Copies o f the audit reports will be made
available to the Bank. Payment validation can present internal control risks, especially for payment o f
reimbursable expenditures to the consultants. To mitigate these risks, details o f reimbursable expenditures
will be clearly specified in the contract, and validation procedures will be agreed upon with BRR
management.

45.      External audit. BRR will prepare special purposes project financial statements annually inspecified
formats. The report will be based on a summary o f financial transactions under this grant. The project
financial report will be subject to a financial audit by Supreme Audit Institution (BPK), which will sub-
contract this work to a reputable auditor acceptable to the Bank. A copy o f the project audited financial
statements, along with the management letters issued by the auditors, if any, will be submitted to the Bank
no later than six months after the end o f the government fiscal year. The terms o f reference for the project
audit will be agreed upon by the Bank and BRR before negotiations. The audit report will include an
opinion on the reliability o f the project financial statements. The audit reports will be made accessible to the
public.

46.      Disbursement arrangements. Eligible expenditures under this project are limited to payments
against five consultancy firms' contracts, which will be under direct payment proceduresg. After review and
verifications of consultants' invoices and their supporting documents, BRR will prepare the withdrawal
application form. The withdrawal application, along with the invoices and supporting documents will be
submitted to the Bank after having been signed by the authorized signatories. The Bank will then transfer
the payments directly to the consultants' bank account. The appropriateBRR officials will review andverify
the consultants' invoices following normal Go1procedures acceptable to the Bank. All origmal documents
insupport ofsuchpaymentswill beretainedas accounting evidence for auditpurposes.

47.      Remedies. If ineligible expenditures are found to have been made from the project activities, or if
expenditures are made without adequate supporting documentation for validation, the recipient will be
obligated to refund the same amount to the Bank. The Bank will have the right to suspend disbursement o f



9 Retroactive financing ofup to U S $4.2 millionwouldbe available for the eligible expenditures incurred since since
March 25,2006


                                                         13

funds if significant terms o f the grant agreements, includingreporting requirements, are not compliedwith.
This will be reflected inthe grant agreement.

48.       Supervision plan. Supervision o f project financial management will be performed on a risk-based
approach at least once a year. The supervision will review the project's financial management system,
including but not limited to accounting, reporting, and internal controls. The financial management
supervision will be conductedby financial management specialists andBank consultants.

IX.       Safeguard Policies

49.       Safeguard policies triggered by this project include environmental assessment, involuntary
resettlement, and indigenous peoples. These policies are triggered by virtue o f the fact that the project will
deliver finishedprojects for financing, and will therefore have to consider a full range o f safeguards issues
as part o f project preparation and detailed design. A safeguards framework for this project i s attached in
annex 9. Key social and environmental impact areas to be considered during project preparation work will
include:
          resource extraction impacts (primarily sourcing o f sand, gravel andother quarry material);
     0    construction impacts (excavation, fuel spills, noise and dust management, obstruction to drainage,
          pollution and sedimentation o f water courses);
          migrantlabor relatedimpacts (increased social tension inthe community, spreadofHIV/AIDs);
          inclusiono f viewsheeds o f vulnerable groups inplanningandpreparation work;
          land acquisition and resettlement related impacts, with focus on compensation entitlements for
          widows andother marginal groups to ensure equitable treatment;
          special needs and concerns o f indigenous peoples living inNias.

50.       The approach taken by the project in addressing impacts requires the development of a social and
environmental framework that will provide: (i)strategic advice to BRR on the overall environmental
sustainability o f the infrastructure development strategy; (ii)     expertise built into the planning and design
teams to assist BRR and local governments in screening proposed projects; (iii)           establishment o f a facility to
carry out all required environmental and social studies to be managed by the IPM team; (iv) a process
framework for the monitoring and management o f environmental and social concerns during
implementation o f sub-projects, including independent monitoring for social aspects; (v) provision of
capacity buildingto BRR and local governments; and (vi) support to BRR inpreparation o f environmental
guidelines and standards for infrastructure projects. BRR, supported by the IPMteam, will be responsible
for the implementation o f the framework, including the development o f detailed operational procedures for
integration into the project manual. These detailed procedures will be established withinthe first two months
o f the project.
  SafeguardPoliciesTriggeredby the Project                                               Yes                   No
  EnvironmentalAssessment(OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                 [XI                    11
  Natural Habitats(OP/BP 4.04)                                                           [ I                   [XI
  PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                                11                    [XI
  CulturalProperty(OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                                    [ I                   [XI
  InvoluntaryResettlement(OPBP4.12)                                                      [XI                    11
  IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                                     [XI                    11
  Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                                    [ I                   [XI
  Safety ofDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             [ I                   [XI
  ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                               [ I                   [XI
  ProjectsonInternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                       [ I                   [XI


* By supportingthe proposedproject,the Bankdoesnotintendto prejudicethe final determinationof the parties'claims on the
disputedareas.


                                                          14

51.      Social issues. In general, the infrastructure projects that will be designed and implemented with
support from this TA will entail replacement o f pre-existing infrastructure. As a result, the level o f
associated social risks i s likely to be limited. However, it i s important for planningprocesses, including
prioritization o f infrastructure needs, to reflect community needs specifically those o f vulnerable groups,
                                                                     -
such as women, children, and the poorest in society. Reports indicate that temporary settlements have not
incorporated adequate facilities and safety measures for women and children. Thus, it i s essential that
women have a voice during the planning and design o f infrastructure to ensure equitable service coverage
and access.

52.      In some cases, land acquisition and resettlement will be unavoidable, leading to a range of
challenges associated with clarifying land titles and ensuring that adequate and timely compensation i s
provided.    Thousands o f people still remain missing after the tsunami while others still live in the
campshamacks or have moved to other regions. Although most intendto return to their holdings, the timing
varies. Therefore, in many cases landowners are not available to discuss land acquisition issues leading to
project delays or later conflicts during project implementation relating to disputed land claims. A firther
challenge is indealing with the tenure rights defined under the customary and traditional codes, particularly
inNias which is dominated by traditional tenure systems. For example, traditional codes do not clearly
define rights for women to inherit land, and a challenge may be how to ensure that female heads o f
households retainrights to receive compensation.

53.      Although the people o f Aceh are a broadly homogeneous group, there are indigenous people living
inNias requiringthe project undertake specific measures to ensure that they are meaningfully engaged in
consultation processes associated with the planning,design, and construction o fproposed infrastructure.

54.      Environmental issues. Although the project entails the procurement o f services to support
infrastructure reconstruction, it will have the effect o f programming very significant MDF and BRR
resources for Aceh and Nias. Consequently, the consultant teams that will be engaged under the project will
need to have a good understanding of related environmental and social impacts and how such impacts can
be mitigatedvia appropriate planning, design, andimplementation measures.

55.      Assessment o f the impacts o f infrastructure reconstruction first needs to be set within the context o f
existing environmental conditions, particularly along the West Coast and inNias. Furthermore it should be
recognized that existing conditions are being further impacted by the reconstruction process that has been
underway since early 2005 - now increasing in scope and intensity. Many coastal areas have been severely
damaged by the tsunami both in terms o f marine and terrestrial environments. In many places coastlines
have been physically altered, particularly the inter-tidal zones. Shallow coral reefs have been affected
resulting from the large amounts o f solid waste, silts and clays generated by the waves. InNias, large tracts
o f coastal land have been lifted up and an estimated 250 ha o f coral reefs are reported to have been
destroyed. With the loss o f sea defenses previously built up areas have been reclaimedby the tides leading
to coastal inundation and the recreation o fmarshy areasjuxtaposed with humansettlement.

56.      Safeguards approach. A range o f safeguards specialists will be hiredby the project both for the IPM
team and geographically based teams situated on the West Coast and inNias. One o f the initial tasks o f the
safeguards team will be to conduct an environmental orientation study based on a pressure/state/response
methodology in order to determine how overall infrastructure planning can best take account o f
environmental challenges. Other key tasks to be undertaken are further detailed in annex 9 and in the TORS
for the consulting teams. These include development o f detailed and operational procedures for
implementation o f the safeguards framework for agreement with local environmental authorities and
integration into the project manual, as well as delivery o f a program o f training for BRR, local government,
project staff, and contractors. Annex 9 A provides details o f a framework for treatment o f indigenous or
isolatedvulnerable people.


                                                       15

X.       Monitoring andEvaluation

57.      BRR, with the assistance of the IPMteam, will be responsible for developing and implementing a
monitoring and evaluation system for the project. Overall project implementationwill be tracked using the
M I S and the project's key development indicators, which are elaborated in annex 1. In addition, physical
implementation progress and financial performance will be measured and evaluated against set standards or
targets using performance indicators and the MIS system created by the IPM. Regular reporting by IPM,
West Coast, and Nias consultant teams will monitor the investments committed, quality o f designs and of
investments duringimplementation, andthe levels o f involvement andresponsibility o f project management
taken over time by local and provincial government staff. Consultant teams will also conduct spot checks o f
design andconstruction quality.

58.       Monitoring and evaluation o f safeguards issues will be done by the IPMsafeguards team to ensure
that the social issues and impacts have been addressed properly and in a participatory, fair, and transparent
manner, in particular where land acquisition and resettlement processes take place. Social and
environmental aspects o f implemented projects will be tracked based on the findings of the social and
environmental assessments. The Environmental Management Plan (Em) will include a key monitoring
indicator, which will be followed during project implementation by the supervision team and reported on
regularly as part o f project reporting systems. Project evaluation studies will also include monitoring and
evaluation o f the impact of the project on indigenous communities and isolated vulnerable people.
Complaints will be monitored through BRR's complaints handlingmechanism, as will the timely resolution
o f the problems raised.

59.       BRR's InfrastructureBoardwill beresponsiblefor monitoring overallproject implementation. Each
month the PMU will prepare a summary report for BRR, MDF and the Bank, which briefly describes
exceptional events and conditions identified during the monitoring process, as well as indications o f the
actions to be taken in response to these events. The Bank, as partner agency under the MDF legal
framework, will lie responsible for project supervision o f the project on behalf o f the MDF.

XI.       Quality EnhancementStrategy

60.       An overarching objective o f the IREP is to improve the quality of all aspects o f BRR's
infrastructure reconstruction program, including project selection, procurement engineering, construction
management, and capacity building, and to ensure long term maintenance o f assets after hand-over to local
governments. Details o f the IREP approach to quality improvement are provided in annex 12, and are
summarizedbelow.

61.       Project selection. The IPM, West Coast, and Nias consultants will assist BRR to ensure good
practice i s applied in prioritization o f projects so that the sub-projects financed are both consistent and
properly timed with BRR's strategic plan, local development needs, and the capacities o f local governments.
An on-going consultative process will be established to support local governments to ensure close
coordinationbetween local government and BRR and consistency among various plans.

62.       Procurement. A central procurement team will be established within BRR to facilitate the process
of procuring the various infrastructure projects identified and prepared under the IREP.           The IPM
consultants will be responsible for assisting this central procurement team to ensure Government and Bank
standards as appropriate are followed. The IPMwill also support the PMU's contract management system.
Anti-conuption support will be included to support BRR's already well-developed efforts in this regard.
The IPMwill work with BRR to improve their standard biddingdocuments for works as needed to ensure
proper incentives to the contractors and independent supervision o fworks takes place.



                                                        16

63.      Design and engineering. The IPM, West Coast, and Nias consultants will assist BRR to ensure
National and BRR quality standards for various sub-projects are applied. The quality o f individual project
preparation - in particular the drafting o f detailed designs and tender documents, safeguards, will also be
supported. The West Coast, Nias, and Strategc Projects consultants will help relevant government bodies
with project preparation, while IPM consultants will assist BRR in spot checking the quality o f project
documents and in acquiring the capacity that it needs to assist in the preparation o f the required safeguard
assessmentsand studies.

64.      Construction management. The quality o f project supervision (including construction quality) will
be directly supported inNias and West Coast by this project. The IPMconsultant will further assist BRRto
apply highstandards inconstruction supervision by, for example, assisting to set standards for qualifications
for project managers, preparingdraft TORSfor supervising engineers, improving the BRRs standard bidding
documents, etc. The IPM team will also assist BRR's quality control and undertake spot checks and
technical audits duringproject implementation and hand-over.

65.      Capacity building. A program to support hands-on training o f local government technical
departments and BRR staff will be an integral part o f the IREP program. In addition, the IPMteam will
review and prepare options for simplified asset management systems in Nias and West Coast to support
management o f reconstruction assets after hand-over, including an assessment o f human and financial
resources. The capacity buildingobjectives o fthe IREPprogram are further elaborated below.

MI. SustainabilityandRisks

66.      Inorder to ensurethe sustainability ofthe reconstructionprogramfor Aceh andNias, anumber of
issues are being addressedby the IREPproject. The key issue for sustainability i s to ensure that highquality
infrastructure i s built inthe first place and a robust regime for maintainingthis infrastructure i s implemented
(discussed above). Additional issues are discussedbelow:

67.      Strategic programming.\Infrastructure projects will not be sustainable inthe absence o f coordination
between the major donors's active in the infrastructure field and in the absence o f integration with key
reconstruction activities in other sectors (such as the ongoing housing programs). Under IREP, BRR will
receive assistance to prepare strategic programs and sector plans based on a clear understanding o f (i)           the
overall infrastructure needs; (ii)  the infrastructure activities o f all major donors, as well as those o f local and
provincial governments; (iii)the priority projects best suited to fill these infrastructure gaps; and, (iv)
adequate allocation o fresponsibilities among stakeholders.

68.      The design o f the strategy and sector plans will be undertaken in close coordination with local and
provincial governments. Such coordination i s important not only to ensure that BRR's plans reflect the
information available to local and provincial governments, but also to maximize alignment between the
strategic program prepared by BRR and plans prepared by local and provincial governments. Local
governments of the West Coast andNias will also benefit from technical assistance, under IREP, to prepare
their own infrastructure development plans inclose coordination with all development partners carrying out
infrastructure activities intheir jurisdictions.

69.      Capacity building. Some o f the main problems that hinder the sustainability o f infrastructure
projects relate to capacity issues on the part o f local governments, as well as on the part o f BRR. IREP
provides assistance, at each stage o f the project cycle, to address these capacity issues. Local and provincial
governments will receive technical assistance to improve the quality o f individual project preparation,
supervision, and maintenance, while BRR will receive technical assistance to help the agency monitor the
quality o f project documents and o f project implementation. Safeguards, procurement and financial
management processes inparticular will be strengthened.


                                                         17

  70.      Inaddition, some stepshavebeentaken to helpBRRmanage its consultantsinamore effective and
  pro-active manner than in the past. First, the IPMconsultants will assist BRR in managing the four other
  consultant teams (West Coast, Nias, Strategic Infrastructure, and Financial Management teams) to be
  established under REP. Second, BRR has established a strong secretariat within the project management
  unit, which is tasked with full time management o fthe five consultant teams (including IPM).Inaddition,
  BRR will draw on some of its international advisors - already mobilized - to help manage the IPM
  consultants.

  71.      Project financing. IREPwould not lead to sustainable infrastructure reconstruction ifadequate funds
  were not available to finance the projects that the program will help to identify and prepare. While total
  infrastructure reconstruction needs for Aceh and Nias have been estimated by BRR at US$1.2 billion over
  the 2007-2009 period, IREP will generate infrastructure projects for about US$400 million over the 2007-
  2009 period, and BRR will have about US$470 million available for infrastructure over the same period.
  The gap between overall infrastructure needs (estimated as mentioned above at US$1.2 billion) and the
  US$470 million available to BRR can be partially bridged by MDF finds (US$lOO -150 million o f which
'

  remain uncommitted at present) and by local governments (who will have about US$250 million - from
  special development grants as well as their own finds - to spend on infrastructure projects over the 2007-
  2009 period).

  72.      However, financial flexibility on the part o f BRR could be an issue. The issue i s that BRRneeds to
  submit its 2007 budget to Parliament before consultants to be hired under IREP have the time to
  comprehensively review existing project proposals and develop new ones to be submitted to BRR. BRR
  could therefore lack the financing flexibility to adapt its 2007 spending patterns to reflect consultants'
  inputs.Various steps can be taken to maintain financing flexibility however: (i) can proposerevisions
                                                                                     BRR
  o f its 2007 budget to MOF at any point in time; (ii)         BRR could allocate at least part o f its 2007
  infrastructure budget to specific kabupatens without specifying, ex ante, how kabupaten allocations will be
  divided between different infrastructure sectors and/or projects; (iii)finally, MDF funds can be allocated to
  infrastructure investments in 2007, and as these funds do not need to be allocated ex-ante to specific
  projects, they can complement BRR's own funds and increase overall financing flexibility for infrastructure
  in2007.

  73.      BRR's exit strategy. BRR's mandate expires inmid-2009. Two main sustainability issues arise after
  that date: (i)local and provincial governments might not own the projects financed by BRR, which could
  result in inadequate maintenance in the post BRR period; and (ii)     while local government revenues have
  substantially increased over the past few years, the revenues derived from natural resources will likely
  decline as Aceh's share o f oil and gas revenues decreases after 2009. The following steps can be taken to
  address these challenges:
           In order to foster local government ownership of BRR funded projects, local and provincial
           governments will have to sign o f f on the projects prepared under IREP and submitted to BRR. In
           addition, local governments will be asked to co-finance infrastructure projects with BRR (and
           MDF).Local andprovincial governmentscould infact be asked to cover an increasing share o fthe
           costs o f infrastructure projects over the course of the next three years. In addition, BRR plans to
           gradually shift key decision making functions to local and provincial governments over the next
           three years supportedby a comprehensive capacity assessmentto be conducted by the IPMteam.
           Mobilization o f local source revenues and revenue transfers from other levels o f government will
           need to be reviewed to ensure that local government revenues inAceh are sustained, beyond 2009,
           at sufficient levels to ensure continued development andmaintenance o f local infrastructure.
           Under IREP, local and provincial governments will receive technical assistance to devise
           appropriate maintenance strategies.       The TORS for the West Coast, Nias, and Strategic
           Infrastructure TA include work to assess local government capacity to manage and operate
           infrastructure, in addition to the capacity training for budgeting and capital works programming.


                                                          18

       T h i s will go some way toward ensuring that local and provincial governments adequately maintain
       the projects that will be financed over the next three years.      The BRR has begun to provide
       operations and maintenance trainingto local governments.
       A detailed exit strategy is already part of the TOR for the IPMConsultants. However, there is a
       possibility that some REP projects may not be completed by the BRR's current mandate. Various
       options are under consideration to address this, andthe issue will be resolved duringappraisal o f the
       BRR'sproposed "Infrastructure Facility."
       Finally, under REP, IPM consultants will help BRR prepare a comprehensive exit strategy
       designed precisely to address the sustainability issues discussed in the present section. The exit
       strategy will include, inter alia: (i)
                                           assessmento f local and provincial government capacity based on
       assessments by the West Coast and Nias consultant teams; (ii)      evaluation o f financial and human
       resources needs o f local governments; (iii)    review o f TA capacity building programs; and, (iv)
       evaluation o f progress in transferring responsibility o f management o f infrastructure projects to
       local andprovincial government staff.

Table 2 below outlines critical risks to the project, as well as proposed mitigation measures to be taken to
minimize these risks.




                                                      19

                        Table2 -Criticalrisksand proposedmitigationmeasures
RISK                            RATING MITIGATION                                            RATING
                                                                                              AFTER
                                                                                            MITIGATION
Misuse o f and failure to         H       Outsourcing o f accounting and reporting              M
account for project finds                 functions. Public disclosure o f audit report and
                                          anti-corruption initiatives as outlined in the
                                          Anti-corruption Action Plan.
Ineffective audit functions       H       Inclusions o f an independent audit as part o f       M
                                          the FM component. FM consultants apply
                                          professional bestpractices to implementation.
Political involvement in funds    S       An independent financial management team              M
flow process                              will be supplied as part o f the IPM team to
                                          monitor fiduciary arrangements.
Lack o f involvement and          S       The Infrastructure Board o f BRRwill be               M
support o f key government                engaged to ensure the appropriate commitment
agencies                                  o fBRR andthe relevant LGs.
Inadequate capacity o fthe        S       TA consultants willprovide the required               M
executing agency                          capacity. BRR will establish a P M U staffed by
                                          experienced technical staff, administrative
                                          staff, procurement and financial management
                                          stafflaccountants.
Limitedavailability o f foreign   M       All consultants willbe procuredusing standard         N
and local TA consultants                  Bank procedures. Maximumcoverage will be
                                          givento advertisementsrequesting interest
                                          from consultants.
Needto deliver the project on a   M       Modelbiddingdocuments have been                       M
fast track basis                          developed and agreed with the Bank. Specific
                                          procurementprovisions elaborated to deliver
                                          the services quickly inresponse to the urgent
                                          nature o f the project. Use o fretroactive
                                          financing and advance procurement
                                          procedures.
Consultant teams do not meet      M       Use o fprocurement advisors will ensure good          S
performance requirements                  quality consultants are selected. The Bank will
                                          support BRR inclosely monitoring
                                          performance o f consultants through intensive
                                          supervision. The TORSo f the consultants have
                                          clauses included that mandate replacement o f
                                          underperforming staff; also as part o fthe
                                          contract, consultants must sign an integrity
                                          clause.
Financing Facility is not         N       Inthe event the FinancingFacility doesnot             N
implemented                               receive donor support, the BRR has sufficient
                                          findsto finance district-level projects.
Localgovernments unable to        H       Iflocalgovernments areunable to mobilize              S
supplycofinancing for                     findingto cofinance landacquisition for
compensationo f land                      infrastructure works, BRR will provide the
acquisition                               additional financing.




                                                   20

   Weak procurement                  H       All packages funded ona retroactivebasis will         M
   environment and collusive                 be subject to prior review. To ensure
   practices inpast projects                 transparency inthe procurement process,
                                             enhanced procurementprocedures are included
                                             inthe Anti-Comption ActionPlan.
                                             Procurement training activities and a capacity
                                              assessment will also be conducted with local
                                              and provincial governments with IPM
                                              assistance.
   L o w capacity o f local and      H        The project will create incentives for active         S
   provincialgovernments to                  participation o f local andprovincial
   provide experienced, qualified             government staffby increasingtheir ability to
   staff to work withconsultant              manage projects through capacity building
   teams                                      activities for project selection and management.
   L o w capacity o f the local        S      The project designincludes significant                S
   governments to finance,                    institutional strengthening to promote
   operate, and maintain                      sustainable management, operations, and
   infrastructure                             maintenance by the P U staff,
   Infrastructure contracts will not   S      The project will ensure the use o f improvedbid      M
   be executedto standards and                documents and tightened control o f quantities

'  costs as designed                          and quality by consultants.
   Transition o f responsibility to    S      IREP is designed to help buildcapacity o f local     M
   local andprovincial                        and provincial government staff to bring about
   governments for maintenance                improvements inthe planning and maintenance
   of infrastructure proves                   o f infrastructure. The consultants will gradually
   unsustainable after BRR's                  shift responsibility to local govemnient staff to
   mandate ends                              manage infrastructure       projects during the
                                              course o f IREP. To foster local government
                                              ownership o f BRR fbnded projects, local and
                                             provincial governments will have to sign o f f on
                                             the projects prepared under IREP and co-
                                              finance infrastructure projects with BRR (and
                                             MDF). Mobilization o f local source revenues
                                              and revenue transfers fiom other levels of
                                             government will need to be reviewed to ensure
                                              that local and provincial government revenues
                                              in Aceh are sustained,         beyond 2009, at
                                              sufficient     levels   to    ensure    continued
                                              development      and    maintenance     o f  local
                                              infrastructure. Finally, the IPMteam will work
                                              closely with BRR to develop an exit strategy
                                             that     includes assessments o f local level
                                             capacity to ensure a smooth transition after
                                             BRR'smandate expires.
  OVERALLRISKLEVEL                    S                                                            M/S
 Risk Rating H(HighRisk), S (Substantial Risk),M(Modest Risk),N(Negligible or L o w Risk)
              -




                                                        21

XIII. Anti-corruptionActionPlan

74.      This project provides TA to BRR to lay the groundwork for future infrastructure investments
financed during the investment phase by BRR. Therefore, it i s important to buildinto this Anti-corruption
Action Plan (ACAP) two forms o f anti-corruption measures: those which help to protect the crucial TAs
launched under the first phase, and those aspects which must start to put inplace a system that will protect
the second phase. More information on the action plan and its applicability to the investment phase i s
available inAnnex 10.

75.      The implementation o f this plan depends on strong support from the BRR through its PMU. It i s
assumed that a small Ethics Team" will be established withinthe BRR, as advisors to the PMU.This Ethics
Team would work closely with the IPMconsultants, providing timely advice to the P M U on issues such as:

                 Adapting and adopting procedures acceptable to the MDF and the government for hiring
                 and managing consultants and contractors;
                 Ensuringthat parliament andcivil society groups are properly informedand engaged within
                  an appropriate "third-party" monitoring system.

76.      Disclosure o f information. To encourage healthy competition between bidders, the PMU must
ensure that infomation i s widely circulated, particularly in relation to the procurement o f the initial
contracts. This will be done using established procedures (e.g., advertisements in newspapers and on
internet website), enhancing with additional measures when possible. To avoid misinformation circulating
about the project, the P M U must ensure that groups interested in the project are kept up to date with
progress during the procurement and implementation phases, inter alia by using an electronic mailing list
and by sending informationdirectly to key distributionhubs, such as NGO fora.

77.      Civil society oversight. To broaden informal oversight coverage and further reduce the problems
relatedto misinformation, the PMUwill ensure that socialization o f civil society oversight begins as soon as
possible, so that civil society becomes aware o f the forthcoming biddingprocess for the first phase contracts
and so that local governments can see that BRR fosters coordination with key external groups, such as the
local parliament and higher education institutions. Both o f these institutions should be encouraged to send
representatives to witness the procurement process and comment on progress.

78.      Collusion mitigation. The procurement team for the first technical assistance packages will be
supported by professional procurement advisors. Strict procurement measures will be followed in order to
minimize risks of collusion in the initial contracts. These measures include wide publication o f bidding
announcements, and other mitigating internal control measures highlighted in the FM and Procurement
Assessment annexes. As mentioned above, BRR will encourage representatives from civil society and,
where possible, localparliament to act as observers o f the key stages inprocurement.

79.      Mitigation o f forgery and fraud. Forgery and fraud risks will be minimized by adherence to
fiduciary management practices (see also annex 8). These measures will include strict payment validation
procedures that will be rigorously enforced. Project filinghookkeeping will be tightly controlled and subject
to strict reviews. Intemal and external audits will be held to ensure that fiduciary management i s in
accordance with the agreed procedures. Special attention will be given to aspects that have proven
vulnerable in previous projects, such as "soft" categories like training, workshops and information



loThis team would greatly benefit from havingaccess to a filltime Advisor on operational aspects, includingthe MDF
and government disbursement, procurement and financial management guidelines.


                                                        22

dissemination. Internal audits will be carried out by BRR, whilst external audits will be outsourced to a
professional audit company throughthe Supreme Audit Board (BPK).

80.     Complaints handling. A sufficiently independent and credible system for handling complaints i s
already available within the Anti-Corruption Unit o f BRR. The PMU should make full use o f this system
throughout the life o f the program.

81.     Sanctions and remedies. BRR may use its own sanctioning regime which includes blacklisting of
companies. If necessary, the BRR Anti-comption Unit will activate and monitor the referral system to
external authorities (e.g., the police/KPK) to gauge if legal and/or administrative sanctions are being
effectively applied.

82.     Effective involvement o f the Local Parliament. The PMU will ensure that the local parliament
(DPRD) is actively involved from the beginningby insistingthat they are properly engaged inthe strategic
planningstage. It will also invite representatives from the relevant commission to observe the procurement
process on the condition that conflict o f interests i s avoided. Later on, the PMUwill ensure that DPRD are
invited through relevant commission to all Accountability Meetings. All o f these activities will require
inputsfrom the Ethics Team andthe IPM.

XIV. Policy Exceptions andReadiness

83.     Nopolicy exceptions are required.

84.     Grantconditions and covenants. There areno project-specific effectiveness conditions. As
requiredunder the general conditions applicable to the Grant, a satisfactory legal opinion mustbe delivered
to the Association prior to effectiveness o f the Grant.

85.     Inaddition to standardprojectimplementation covenantsrequiredto cany out the Project, the
following actions will be taken duringimplementation:

        BRR will submit no later December 31, 2008 a letter outlining proposals for either (a) the orderly
        closing o f the Project; or (b) the extension o f the Project, including proposed institutional
        arrangements for further management o fthe Project.
        External auditor arrangement between BPK andthe acceptable auditor to be completed no later than
        6 months after signing o f the Grant Agreement. The project audit should be submitted to the Bank
        not later than six months after the end o f each financial year.




                                                         23

                                  ANNEX 1:PROJECTSRESULTSSUMMARY

Project Intervention        Verifiable Indicators o f  Means o f Verification    Assumptions
Logic                       Achievement




coordination o f the infrasi icture reconstructionpro{ .m.
Result 1                     A strategc plan for        IPMteam andBRRwill        Donors openly share
Infrastructure               infrastructure             conduct bimonthly         informationregarding
investments made inthe       reconstruction inAceh      reports usingthe MIS      their infrastructure
Aceh and Nias post-          andNias exists             system to track progress  reconstruction programs
tsunami recovery                                        o fthe overarching
programreflectBRR's          Donors andother            reconstruction program    BRRdatabasesare
strategic infrastructure     stakeholders are                                     maintained and
reconstruction plan          consulted on the plan      Project designs submitted improved upon during
                             anddesignprojects that     to BRR follow the         project implementation
                             support implementation     strategic infrastructure
                             ofthe strategy (i.e., the  reconstruction plan
                             proportion o f
                             infrastructure             Annual audit o f BRR's
                             investments that reflects  technical assistance
                             BRR'sstrategic plan        measures the proportion
                             increases)                 o f infrastructure
                                                        investments that reflect
                                                        BRR's strategc plan
Result 2                     Technical designs are      Regular reportingby       Local andprovincial
Infrastructure designs o f   sound and appropriate      IPM,West Coast, and       governments actively
BRR-financed projects                                   Nias consultant teams to  participate inproject
are highquality              Proper safeguards          monitor quality o f       design
                             measures are integrated    designs created at the
                             into project preparation   district and provincial   Local andprovincial
                                                        levels                    governments work
                                                                                  closely with consultant
                                                        Satisfactory spot checks  teams to prepare their
                                                        (i.e., un-announced       Annual Investment Plans
                                                        inspection o f works      (AIp4
                                                        undertakeninthis project
                                                        to monitor progress o f
                                                        approximately 10-15% o f
                                                        projects bynumber, and
                                                        20-40% by value being
                                                        prepared) o ftechnical
                                                        designs and safeguards
                                                        documentation by IPM
                                                        consultants duringproject
                                                        amraisal



                                                       24

Result 3                   The scale o f fbnding    Regular reportingby           BRRapprovesproposed
                                                                                 ~




To ensure the              committedto implement    IPM,West Coast, and           designs andprojects ina
availability o f an        the projects submitted   Nias consultant teams to      timely manner to avoid
adequate number o f        by local andprovincial   monitor investments           backlogs
technical designs to       governments to BRR as    committed at the district
support the highlevel of   part o ftheir AIPs       and provincial levels         BRRprovides adequate
BRRinvestment              increases                                              fimdingto support
earmarked for                                                                     project implementation
reconstruction
Result4                                             Regular reportingby           Anti-Corruption Action
To enhance the quality     Projects meet the        IPM,West Coast, and           Planis followed during
o f implementation o f     specifications o f the   Nias consultant teams to      implementation
BRR-financed               technical designs        monitor the quality o f
infrastructure                                      investments during            Quality assurancetesting
reconstruction projects                             implementation                i s conducted

                                                    Satisfactory spot checks
                                                    (i.un-announced
                                                      e.,
                                                    inspection o fworks
                                                    undertaken inthis project
                                                    to monitor progress o f
                                                    approximately 10-15% o f
                                                    projects being
                                                    implemented for
                                                    construction quality by
                                                    IPMconsultants during
                                                    implementation
Result 5                   Increasedproportion o f  Reporting from IPM            Local andprovincial
Capacity o f local and     projects managedby       team, andfrom the West        governments assign
provincial level staffto   local andprovincial      Coast andNias consultant      appropriate staffingas a
assume increased           government staff         teams to track levels o f     long-term commitment.
responsibility for project                          involvement and
management and             Increased proportion o f responsibility o fproject     Relevant government
application o f            projects managedby       managementtaken over          staffparticipate in
safeguards policies,       local andprovincial      time by local and             trainingprograms
procurement, and           government staff that    provincial government         offeredby BRR and
financial management       incorporate appropriate  staff                         consultants
                           safeguards measures,
                           financial management
                           andprocurement
                           practices duringproject
                           design and
                           implementation




                                                   25

                                   ANNEX2: DETAILED       PROJECT   DESCRIPTION


A.         Introduction

On December 26, 2004, a major earthquake struck 150km off the coast of Indonesia. Forty-five minutes
later, a devastatingtsunami wave hit Aceh. On March 28,2005, another devastating earthquake added to the
toll on Nias Island, Simeulue and southern parts o f Aceh. These natural disasters caused massive humanand
physical destruction: some 170,000 people were killed and 600,000 people displaced; 80,000 to 120,000
houses were destroyed or badly damaged; and all forms o f infrastructure - including roads, seaports,
airports, water treatment and distribution systems, power supply networks and sea defenses - suffered
enormous damage. A huge outpouring o f support followed and some 500 organizations are currently
involvedinthe relief andreconstruction activities.

In April 2005, the Government of Indonesia (GoI) announced the creation of the Rehabilitation and
ReconstructionAgency (BRR), tasked with coordinating implementation o fpost-disaster recovery activities.
InNovember 2005, BRRwas given additional powers to implement projects directly. This shift is meantto
enable BRR to respond to gaps in implementation or non-responsive programs, by being able to assume
responsibility for those programs itselfor to reassign them to other agencies.

Given the magnitude o f the losses suffered and the number o f organizations currently involved in
reconstruction efforts, demands on the technical and coordination capacities o f BRR as well as o f local and
provincial governments are enormous. Under a bilateral aid agreement with France, two o f the local
governments most affected by the disaster (Banda Aceh and Aceh Besar) are receiving technical assistance
(TA) to strengthen their project preparation capacity across infrastructure sectors (including, in particular,
water supply and sanitation, drainage, power, telecommunications, transport, and sea defenses). The
proposedproject is designed to provide similar assistance across infrastructure sectors to the other nine local
governments most severely affected (seven on the West Coast and two on Nias Island), to the provincial
governments of Aceh andNias, and to supplement capacity within BRR. This proposed TA program i s to be
complemented by a financing strategy based, inpart, on the establishment o f a financing facility co-funded
byBRRandMDF.This financing strategy is described indetail inAnnex 5.

The TA providedby the proposedproject includes the five main components describedbelow.

B.         Component 1:Infrastructure ProgramManagement (IPM)(US$19.5 million)

T h i s component aims at strengthening BRR's ability to carry out program management functions by
recruiting a core team o f highly qualified experts who will be deployed within the existing BRR structure
for infrastructure working directly with existing staff. They will provide assistance to BRR in eight specific
areas:
         overall strategic infrastructure programming for Aceh and Nias, as per the BRR Infrastructure
         Strategy (applies to all infrastructure projects, regardless o f source o f financing);
         program management o f the reconstruction process in Aceh and Nias (applies to all infrastructure
         projects, regardless o f source o f financing);
         review o f local and provincial governments' plans for infrastructure investment as a basis for BRR
         finding (applies only to infrastructure projects financed byBRR/MDF);
         quality control, supervision, and monitoring o f BRR-funded infrastructure projects (applies only to
         infrastructure projects financed by BRR/MDF);
    0    procurement support for BRR-finded infrastructure projects (applies only to infrastructure projects
         financed by BRR/MDF);



                                                          26

    0   safeguard support for BRR-funded infrastructure projects (applies only to infrastructure projects
        financed by BRWMDF);
    0   anti-conuption support for BRR-funded infrastructure projects (applies only to infi-astructure projects
        financed by BRWMDF); and
    0   support to BRR in managing the consultant teams that will assist with implementation o f the other
        components o fthe proposedproject.

Strategic programming
One o f BRR's mandates i s strategic programming o f infrastructure recovery activities, covering the
following sectors: roads, ports, airports, telecommunications, water, sanitation, drainage, flood control,
irrigation, power, and public buildings.This responsibility includes: (i) identifying the overall infrastructure
needs; (ii)understanding the infrastructure activities o f all major donors, as well as those o f local and
provincial governments; (iii)   identifying the main gaps; (iv) developing a list o f priority projects across
infrastructure sectors designed to fill these gaps; and, (v) allocating responsibilities between various
stakeholders to ensure swift implementation o fpriority projects.

To create the overall strategic program for infrastructure recovery, it will be necessary to prepare individual
sectoral plans highlightingneeds and corresponding priority projects in affected areas. The IPMconsultants
will help BRR prepare the strategic program and sector plans, which will outline activities over the next
three to five years. Such plans should take advantage o f economies o f scale when possible. The planswill be
reviewed every six months by, and will require the approval of, the Infrastructure Board o f the BRR. The
design o f the strategy and sector plans will be undertaken in close coordination with local and provincial
governments; in addition, the planning process will involve broad consultation with relevant stakeholders
and communities living in areas covered by the strategic program. Such coordination i s important not only
to ensure that BRR's plansreflect the information available to local and provincial governments, but also to
maximize alignment between the strategic program prepared by BRR and plans prepared by local and
provincial governments.

Infrastructureprogrammanagement
As there are a multitude o f donors, non-governmental agencies and other stakeholders working in
infrastructure reconstruction throughout Aceh and Nias, it i s essential BRR has the ability to coordinate
activities effectively to leverage resources and identify gaps in implementation that need to be addressed.
The infrastructure program management function o f this TA will support BRR to review donor programs to
track progress and results and ensure smooth implementation o f reconstruction processes. By having this
information available, BRR will be able to suggest redirecting o f donor investments to meet m e t needs in
affected communities. In addition, the IPMteam will support BRR's participation in infrastructure sectoral
working groups to enhance coordination and communication links among stakeholders engaged in the
recovery process.

BRR is in charge o f collecting, preparing and disseminating information to stakeholders about
implementation progress and milestones o f its overall strategic plan for infrastructure reconstruction in
Aceh. IPM consultants will help BRR develop an adequate monitoring framework in the form of a
management information system (MIS) to track progress toward achieving the objectives o f BRR's overall
strategic infrastructure program. The IPM team will also, in collaboration with BRR's communications
office, assist BRR in communicating information regarding program progress to the public in an effective
manner, through the Internet, newspapers, and other appropriate forms o f media.


Review o f local and provincial governments' reconstructionplans and priority projects
BRRreviews the infrastructureplans andpriority projects preparedbythe local and provincialgovernments
to ensure that they match BRR's overall strategic program mentioned above. The remaining local


                                                     27

governments inAceh andNias will also submit development plans, which will be evaluated on the basis o f
the investments' strategic value to the overarching reconstruction program. Upon review o f these local and
provincial plans, BRR will determine whether or not to approve these individual infrastructure projects
plans and whether to allocate some o f its own funds to implement these projects. It is possible that local and
provincial governments may submit specific projects for approval by BRR before having completed their
strategic plans, especially in the first year o f this IPM TA project implementation. In this case, BRR will
review the merits o f those projects, determine whether to approve them, and whether to allocate some o f its
own funds to their implementation.

IPMconsultants will help BRRdevelop templates and guidelines on how localandprovincial governments
must present their infrastructure reconstruction plans (including the level o f details requested on each
individual project included inthe plans). Such templates and guidelines will build, to the possible extent, on
the existing processes o f BRR. IPMwill assist BRR with the development o f a detailed project manual to
explain the project cycle o f infrastructure investment, which includes the process o f drafting plans and
proposals, requesting funds from BRR, and the monitoring and evaluation o f these projects. The IPM
consultants will also support BRR inpreparing the infrastructure budget for submission to Parliament. This
activity i s particularly crucial for inclusion in the 2007 budget cycle, as all o f the higher quality plans and
projects may not be ready before this mustbe completed.

Quality assuranceo f BRR-financedprojects
Once individual local and provincial projects are approved by BRR, local or provincial governments will
prepare corresponding detailed designs and tender documents. For the projects it finances, BRR will check
the quality o f project design and implementation arrangements. IPM consultants will help BRR develop
minimumquality standards and standardized biddingdocuments pertaining to specific projects; it will also
help BRR carry out its checking function. To ensure sustainability o f its infrastructure investments, BRR
will develop management, maintenance and operations guidelines including future recurrent budget needs,
to assure adequate future maintenance o f the projects it finances. IPM consultants will assist BRR in the
development o f these plans. Any processes designed by IPMconsultants will build, to the extent possible,
on existing processes o f BRR.

Procurement support and capacity building
BRR is responsible for setting up adequate procurement capacity to ensure the effective implementation of
the projects that it finances. I P Mconsultants will provide advice and support to BRR inthis area. One o f the
components o f the assignment o f the IPM will be to provide procurement services during the
implementation o f the infrastructure projects. The main task is to assist in meeting the urgent needs by
conducting procurement in the short term; while developing the capacity o f local governments to carry out
procurement inthe long term. The procurement services will directly support the actual procurement for up
to 18 months o f the implementation o f infrastructure projects designed under this grant and which will be
financed under a following project.

During the first 18 months of the project, the consultant procurement team will assess the current
procurement procedures o f BRR,propose improvements ifnecessary, conduct training workshops for BRR,
provincial and local government representatives in the procurement process, prepare the procurement
plan(s), assist BRR inconducting the procurement process, prepare evaluation reports, andnegotiate (where
applicable) andprepare contracts.

Inparallel, the consultant team will assess the capacities to conduct procurement at the local government
level, propose capacity development plans for BRR approval, implement these capacity development plans
through workshops and on-the-job training, and benchmark the performance o f the different local
governments. Depending on the stage o f preparedness o f the different local governments, a gradual shift in




                                                        28

responsibilities will occur whereby procurement will be conducted by these governments under the
monitoring o f BRR.This phase is expected to occur during the last 12-18 months o f the project.

Safeguard support and capacity building
BRR requires that its projects meet all social and environmental safeguards requirements. BRR is
responsible, inparticular, for: (i)developing overall processes to ensure that all safeguards requirements are
met; (ii) screening o f projects to determine whether they trigger the implementation o f specific safeguards
requirements; (iii)ensuring that any safeguards-related studies or assessments are performed by an
independent consultant; and, (iv) supervising implementation o f such assessments and studies on a spot-
check basis. BRR will also provide hnding to contract consultants to execute safeguards studies as
necessary.

IPMconsultants will provide advice to BRR on all safeguards-related issues and will be responsible for
assisting BRR in acquiring the expertise required to draft any safeguards-related actionplans andprepare all
required social andenvironmental studies (AMDAL,UKL/UPL,and LARAP).The IPMteam will carry out
these tasks at it deems appropriate.

Anti-conuption support andcapacity building
Inaddition, BRR will be tasked with enforcement of the project's anti-corruption action plan to reduce
leakages o f resources and assure transparency. The IPM team will assist BRR in enhancing its existing
complaints handling mechanism for BRR-financed projects to track and resolve grievances reported by
communities affected by the infrastructure works duringthe investment phase.

Project management support
BRR is tasked with managing the work programs, performance, and outputs o f the consultants that will
assist with implementation o f the other components o f the IREP project, namely: West Coast Infrastructure
Planning, Design and Construction Supervision; Nias Infrastructure Planning, Design and Construction
Supervision; Strategic Infrastructure Planning, Design and Construction Supervision; and, Financial
Management o f BRR-financed projects. IPMconsultants will assist BRR in carrylng out this management
function and will conduct any assessments or audits necessary to ensure the quality o f the performance o f
the other TA components.

C.       Component 2: West Coast Infrastructure Planning, Design and Construction Supervision (US$lO
million)

The seven local governments located on the West Coast" have beenparticularly affected by the tsunami and
earthquake disasters. This component o f the IREP project aims at strengthening the ability o f those seven
local governments to improve the provision o f infrastructure in their respective jurisdictions by providing
technical experts to assist them in this area. These experts are expected to work closely with the planning
and public works departments o f the local governments. They will provide assistance to these local
governments in three main areas: (i)    planning; (ii)project design, tender documents, implementation and
supervision, including compliance with environmental and social safeguards policies; and (iii)     institutional
development support and training.

Strategic planning
Under the IREP, the local governments must identify their present and hture development needs related to
physical planning and infrastructure development and services, and against this background, review the
activities o f all major donors active within their jurisdictions, identify the main gaps, and prepare
development plans (including spatial and infrastructure master plans, if needed) focusing on their priority

IIAceh Jaya, Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singkil and Simeulue.


                                                      29

infrastructure investment needs, specified on a yearly basis over the next three to five years. On the basis of
such overall plans, the local governments should prepare Annual Investment Plans(ATP) with the assistance
o f the IREP consultants, which include new projects and priority maintenance works and indicate tentative
source of funding for proposed activities (local government funds, BRR funds, or contributions from
donors). These AIPs must be submitted to BRR for approval. AIPs will be prepared annually on a rolling
basis, with a revised version submitted to BRR every six months. Local governments will coordinate the
plans with other development partners to avoid overlaps. The consultants will help the local governments
preparethe development and ATP plans mentioned above.

The local governments may submit specific projects for approval by BRR before having completed their
strategic plans. During the first year o f implementation, before assisting local governments with the
preparation o f strategic plans, the consultants are likely to be asked first to review and vet the priority
projects already identifiedby the local governments andready to be sent to BRRfor approval.

Project design, implementation and supervision
Once the local governments' ATPs are approved by BRR, local governments need to produce detailed
designs and tender documents, as discussed above, and then proceed with the tendering o f these projects.
Local governments are responsible for approving any required safeguard-related action plan and for
managing/monitoring the implementation o f the projects. Consultant teams will work alongside local
government staff to assist in the implementation and supervision o f infrastructure reconstruction. These
IREP consultants will be responsible for utilizing the IPM team's contract designs to ensure high quality
standards are applied. To ensure sustainability o f its infrastructure investments, consultant teams and local
governments will develop management and maintenance strateges andtrainingprograms to assure adequate
hture maintenance andoperations o f the projects.

Of the US$10 million available to finance this component o f the proposed project, it is expected that about
20% will be spent planningactivities, about 50% on designing and tendering projects, and about 30% on
supervising projects. On average, design and tendering costs tend to represent about 5% o f total project
costs. Since a relatively high proportion o f the projects to be undertaken by local governments are rather
simple projects requiring minimal design work, design and tendering costs may represent between 2.5 and
5% o f total project costs. Therefore, the US$5 million (i.e., 50% o fUS$lO million) spent on project design
and tendering by the seven local governments might be expected to generate infrastructure projects worth
betweenUS$lOO and US$200 million.

Institutionaldevelopment and capacity building
The consultants will strengthen the technical capacity o f local governments by providing local government
staff with hands-on experience and tailored training in management, planning, project design, financial
management, construction, supervision maintenance, and operation. Local consultants, contractors, and
local government staff will be trained by BRR (in part through IPM consultants) on effective
implementation o f social and environmental safeguards to ensure projects comply with these policies and do
not negatively impact vulnerable social groups or the environment. Local government staff will also be
trained on procurement procedures by the BRR Procurement Advisory team and IPM consultants. In
addition, the consultants will prepare a longer term maintenance and asset management strategy for local
governments that include staffingand humanresource needs.

D.       Component 3: Nias InfrastructurePlanning, Design, and Construction Supervision (US$6 million)

Nias Island, which lies in North Sumatra province and comprises two local governments, Nias and Nias
Selatan, was most negatively affected by the earthquake that occurred on March 28, 2005. Nias'
infrastructure needs are particularly acute inthe transport sector; roads, bridges, ports andairports need to be
rehabilitated and improved due to both the damage from the disaster and from long term lack of


                                                      30

maintenance. By investing in this sector inNias, it i s expected to instigate renewed economic activity and
help restore livelihoodso f affected communities.

Strategic planning
The local governments need to identify their present and future development needs related to physical
planning and infrastructure development and services with regard to this IREP project. Against this
background, they must review the activities o f all major donors active within their jurisdictions, identify the
main gaps, and prepare development plans (including spatial and infrastructure master plans, if needed)
focusing on their priority infrastructure investment needs, specified on a yearly basis over the next three to
five years. On the basis o f such overall plans the local governments, assisted by the IREP consultants, will
prepare Annual Investment Plans (AIP)that include new projects as well as priority maintenance works,
indicate tentative source o f funding for proposed activities (either the local government's own funds, or
BRR funds, or contributions from donors), and submit them to BRR for approval. A P s will bepreparedfor
periods o f one year on a rolling basis, with a revised version submitted to BRR every six months. Local
governments will coordinate the plans with other development partners to avoid overlaps. The consultants
will helpthe local governments prepare the development andAIP plans mentioned above.

The local governments may submit specific projects for approval by BRR before having completed their
strategic plans. During the first year o f implementation, before assisting local governments with the
preparation o f strategic plans, the consultants are likely to be asked first to review and vet the priority
projects already identifiedby the local governments and ready to be sent to BRRfor approval.

Project design, implementation and supervision
Once the AIPs are approved by BRR, local governments need to produce detailed designs and tender
documents for the relevant projects, as discussed above, and then proceed with the tendering o f these
projects. Local governments are responsible for approving any required safeguard-related action plan and
for managing/monitoring the implementation o f the projects. Consultant teams will work alongside local
government staff to assist in the implementation and supervision o f infrastructure reconstruction. These
IREP consultants will be responsible for utilizing the IPM team's contract designs to ensure high quality
standards are applied. To ensure sustainability o f its infrastructure investments, consultant teams and local
governments will develop management andmaintenance strategies and training programs to assure adequate
future maintenance andoperations o fthe projects.

As mentioned incomponent 2, the 50% o fthe TA budget allocated to project design and tendering are likely
to represent between 2.5 to 5% o f total project costs - which means that the US$3 million (i.e., 50% o f
US$6 million) spent on project design and tendering in Nias might be expected to generate infrastructure
projects worth between U S 6 0 and US$120 million.

Capacity building
The consultants will strengthen the technical capacity o f local governments by providing local government
staff with hands-on experience and tailored training in management, planning, project design, financial
management, construction, supervision maintenance and operation. Local consultants, contractors (when
applicable) and local government staff will be trained by BRR (in part through IPM consultants) on
effective implementation o f social and environmental safeguards to ensure projects comply with these
policies and do not negatively impact vulnerable social groups or the environment. Local government staff
will also be trained on procurement procedures by the BRR Procurement Advisory team and IPM
consultants.




                                                      31

E.       Component 4: Strategic Infrastructure Project Planning, Design and Supervision (US$S million)

Several larger priority infrastructure projects that fall under the responsibility o f local or provincial
governments, or possibly o f the national government, constitute this fourth component o f IREP. It i s
designed to strengthen the ability o f BRR and the relevant governments to carry out the identification,
appraisal, detailed design and supervision o f these larger, strategic infrastructure projects. This assistance
will beprovidedby experts who will work closely with therelevant governments.

 Project identification
The types o f projects to be financed under this TA include large infrastructure projects such as: ports,
airports, andkey roads managedby provincial, national or even local government entities. A number o f such
projects have been identified in particular in the airport and road sectors. The IPM consultants will assist
BRR and the relevant governments in preparing projects already identified and help identifying further
priority infrastructure projects. Relevant governments will coordinate the plans with other development
partners to avoid overlaps.

Project design, implementation and supervision
Once strategic projects have been identified, the relevant government (at the local, provincial or possibly
national level) will produce detailed designs and tender documents and proceed with the tendering o f these
projects. The relevant governments are responsible for approving any required safeguard-related action plan
and for supervising the implementation o f the projects. An additional team o f consultants, distinct from the
IPMconsultants, will provide support on all aspects of design, financial management, implementation and
supervision o f the projects. These IREP consultants will be responsible for utilizing the IPMteam's contract
designs to ensure high quality standards are applied. To ensure sustainability o f these infrastructure
investments, consultant teams and local governments will develop asset management and maintenance
strateges and relevant training programs to assure adequate future maintenance o f the investments. These
strategies will include an assessment o f local and provincial government human and financial resource
needs for assuming full responsibility for all aspects o f infrastructure works. This assistance will focus on
strategic projects financed by BRR.

Although the exact number o f priority projects to be implemented over the next 3 to 5 years remains
uncertain at this stage, the consultants will likely be recruited under a time based contract that describes the
nature o f the tasks to be performed and the qualifications required, but maintains a degree o f flexibility
regarding the quantity o f support to be provided.

F.       Component 5: FinancialManagement o fBRR-financed Projects (US$1.5 million)

BRRneeds to put inplace a sound financial management (FM) framework. This component is designed to
strengthen BRR's capacity to put in place the financial management framework required to ensure that it
meets all its fiduciary responsibilities with respect to the projects. This assistance will be provided by
experts located within BRR. The financial management consultant team will include assistance to the PMU
and PIUs to establish and maintain financial accounting and monitoring arrangements for project activities
undertaken and expenditures incurred at all project locations, including monitoring the operation o f internal
controls over implementation o f the contracts. This component will also include an external audit o f the
project financial statements by the country's Supreme Audit Board (BPK). However, in view o f capacity
constraints at BPK, it will sub-contract the audit to reputable private sector firms acceptable to the Bank.
The related cost for an external audit i s includedinthis component.




                                                        32

               ANNEX 3: INSTITUTIONAL DESIGNAND IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS



A.      Introduction

To ensure smooth execution o f project components, it i s important to devise a clear, transparent structure for
reporting on progress, outcomes, and challenges to the program. This annex explains how the proposed

o f the BRR structure - through management o f the BRR Infrastructure Board and the establishment of a
Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP) technical assistance (TA) will work in the context

Project Management Unit(PMU) - as well as how it will support provincial and local governments covered
by the IREP TA inthe West Coast andNias logistical areas. It also elaborates the reporting structures and
oversight functions to be put inplace duringimplementation.

B.       Project ManagementUnit

BRR has established a Project Management Unit (PMU) to coordinate and oversee day-to-day
implementation o f the TA at the macro level, which includes management o f the Infrastructure Program
Management (IPM) team, donor coordination, procurement practices, safeguards policies, fiduciary
management o f BRR investments, monitoring o f project progress, and the development of a strategc
infrastructure reconstruction plan covering Aceh and Nias. BRR has proposed to appoint the Deputy of
Infrastructure as Chief o fthe PMU, who will also serve as Task Leader o fthe IPMteam.

The P M U will consist o f Directors o f relevant BRR programs in the following thematic areas: the Chief o f
the P M U Secretariat, Finance and Planning, Communication, .the Public Facilities, Quality Assurance,
Water Resources and Energy, Water and Sanitation, Nias Representative, and Roads and Bridges. The four
TA packages addressing the West Coast, Nias, strategic infrastructure projects, and financial management
will each be managedby one sector Director sittingwithin the PMU. These Directors will continue to serve
not only as Task Leaders to the individual TA components, but also as Directors o f their BRRprograms:

        The BRRNias Representative will administer the Nias TA;
        the Director ofPublic Facilities will managethe strategc infrastructureTA,
         the Director o f Water Resources andEnergy will be Team Leader o f the West Coast TA; and,
         the Chief o f Finance and Planningwill be responsible for the financial management TA.

Sitting within the PMUwill be an IREP Secretariat, responsible for daily work to support the functions o f
the PMU. A full-time Chief of PMU Secretariat will be appointed to administer the Secretariat work
program and staff, BRR will be responsible for equipping the Secretariat with qualified personnel and
support staff. The IPMteam will support the Secretariat, as outlined in the IPM terms o f reference. Also
working within the P M U will be an IREP procurement team that will assist in the contract management of
the three main TA consultants by the time the teams have been mobilized. A Procurement Advisory team
will be mobilized for the investment phase. This team will be staffed by BRR and supplemented by
procurement staff from the IPM team. As part o f its work program, the Procurement Advisory team will
manage procurement o f works during the investment phase and will train local and provincial government
staff on procurement practices and policies under the project. The chart below highlights the KEP PMU
structure.




                                                     33

The PMUwill liaise closely with other BRR units to coordinate activities and maximize the use o f existing
expertise within the organization. With the help o f the IPMconsultants, the PMU will work with the BRR
Internal Supervisory Unit that addresses complaints handling and anti-corruption measures to monitor and
resolve issues that arise during implementation. It will also feed information and data collected on
implementation progress and results o f infrastructure projects to the Communications Office for
dissemination. The PMU Procurement Advisory team working under the umbrella o f the P M U will work
with the central BRR procurement team to ensure consistency across all BRR programs. The IPM
safeguards consultants will provide support to the land acquisition and environmental safeguards teams
withinBRR.Inaddition, the financial managementteam, andits supplemental consultants providedthrough
the TA, will be responsible for coordinating with the Deputy o f FinancialManagement. These relationships
are illustrated inthe chart below.

    Relationshipwith Other Units in BRR

       Deputyof
       Operations         Housing
       support
             I
       Anti-              Land               Environmental
       corruption         Acquisition        Safeguards
             I
       Complaints
       Handling                                                                       Coordination

                               II        I             PMU                   I            I
                                                                             i




       Procurement
       BRR Central                          IPM
       Team                 support         Consultants
                               I
   I
   ,                    I
       BRR                     I         c                                   I



       Communications
       Office


C.         InstitutionalArrangements at the Local and ProvincialLevels


                         '
   I
   f Infrastructure                                            Chief of PMU                           IREP Secretariat
     Program                                                   9 Deputy Infrastructure                 Director PMU Secretariat
     Management(IPM)                                             Project Manager for                  9Project staff from all
     Consultants                                                 IPM consultants                       infrastructuredirectors
   \                     J                                                                             (appointed)
  1                          r-l                                            I
      I
       Director of Water         ERR Nias                Director of Public
       Resources & Energy        Representative           Facilities                Planning                   Advisory Team
         Task Leader for           Task Leader            0Task Leader
         West Coast                for Nias                for Strategic Infra                                  phase
         (appointed)               (appointed)             Consultants                                         (to be appointed)
                                                           (appointed)
       [-I [-I [-I                                                                 [-I
                  I                        I




                                                                34

The three TA components focused on implementation at the local andprovincial levels will be carried out in
partnership with local public works staff (PU).The consultant teams will be based in local government
offices to buildcapacity o f local staff inareas o f strategic project identification, design, implementation and
supervision, and maintenance. As local governments are in the process o f identifying critical infrastructure
projects and completing their annual strategic infrastructure plans, the PU staff will coordinate with and
incorporate feedback from both Bappeda officials and the Bupatimalikota. This process will integrate
donor consultations as well as the views and inputs o f affected communities. The Bupatimalikota will
coordinate directly with BRR's Executive Board throughout this process.

The consultant team working with the local andprovincial governments will report directly to its respective
Task Leader within the PMU, which i s supported by IPM consultants. Feedback will also be provided
through a Project Coordinating Team (PCT) formed o f the heads o f Bappeda, BRR Regional
Representatives, and the Task Leader for the TA. This PCT will meet monthly to discuss implementation
progress and consultant performance, and resolve any outstanding issues. The example provided below
shows the institutional arrangements for the West Coast TA. The entire project cycle i s shown for the West
Coast TA inthe last chart inthe annex.
  Local Government Level Reporting Arrangements
  IREP TA Consultants (PDCS-WC)



        Bupatil                    Board
   -                                              -
       Walikota
        (Mayor)                                                                  PMU IREP

     Local                       I              IREP TA                   + Directorof/
     Government       Public Works                                               Task Leaders
                                     based in Local Gov 4
                                             Consultants                               \
                                                                                 Supported by




At the provincial and local government levels, the consultant teams will work closely with PU and other
local or provincial government staff, but will report directly to their respective Task Leader sittingwithinthe
PMU. The PMU Secretariat staff will support the Task Leaders in this fimction. The IPMconsultant team
will be responsible for assisting the Secretariat and Task Leaders in the oversight and management o f the
other TA teams. Feedback will also be providedthrough the Project Coordinating Teams (PCT) for each o f
the four TA components. Withinthe PMU, the IPMteam will report to the Head o f the PMU. The Head of
the P M U will then consolidate all o f the information from the teams andreports to the Infrastructure Board.
Reporting arrangements are shown inthe chart below.




                                                        35

                                                                                           J-
  Reporting Arrangements for Five Consulting Teams

                                                                           Q Task Leader




                                          Service Delivery


                       7 Local            2 Local           Provincial Dept
                       Government         Government        Local Gov
                              I                  1
                             Feedbackthrough Proje



D.       Project Oversight

The progress o f the project will be monitoredby the BRR Infrastructure Board (IB), which i s comprised o f
Deputy Directors o f Housing, Finance, and Planning, Institutional Development, and Infrastructure. The
Deputy o f Infrastructure serves as both board chair and as Chief Operating Officer (COO) o f the program.
The IB will discuss issues related to donor coordination, monitor progress o f the reconstruction program,
and resolve multisectoral issues. The Board will meet every month during the first few months o f project
implementation to provide additional oversight, and then will hold bimonthly meetings for the duration o f
project implementation. The PMU Secretariat team will prepare agendas for these meetings and highlight
issues to be discussed.

The IB will receive monthly reports from the Project Management Unit (PMU) on progress, challenges to
implementation, and budgeting issues. Inaddition, the BRR complaints handlingunit will provide monthly
updates o f complaints received regarding the infrastructure program to both the PMU and to the IB.The
P M U will be responsible for recommending courses o f action for resolution, which could escalate to the IB,
if the problem is complex and warrants special attention. The IB will also give regular updates and fill
briefs every three months to the BRR Executive Board, which comprises all BRR Deputy Directors and is
headed by an Executive Director. The Bupati/Walikota will also communicate feedback on progress of the
infrastructure program in their jurisdictions to the Executive Board on a regular basis. The structure o f the
IBandreportingstructure isshowninthechart below.




                                                         36

       ProjectCycle (WestCoastlNias)

 I                                     h
 I             I         I              I
    PDCS                       Local               1.Consultants, BRR, and Local
                                                   Government identify immediate
   Consultant              Government              priorities& projects. Develop
                                                   Immediate Infra Project Plan (IIPP)
                                                   and Annual Investment Plan (AIP)

                                                   2. Local Governmentsubmits
                                                   Annual Investment Plan (also, llPP
                                                   for the first year) to BRR, updated
                                                   biannually.

                                                   3. IREP PMU reviews projects from
                                                   list, with IPM consultants conducting
                                                   technical review. Approved projects
                                                   are returnedto LocalGovernment
                                                   and preparedby Consultants. The
                                                   BRR then initiates procurement
                                                   steps in parallel.
                                                   4. Consultantteam preparesDED &
                                                   TD, and all requiredtechnical
                                                   documents. Localgovernment
                                                    PublicWorks may assist in design
                                                   work.
                                                   5 Localgovernmentsubmits
                                                   requestto BRR Fund Managerfor
                                                   authorizationto procure.


                                                   investmentphase of the project -
                                                   6. Fund Manager initiates
m
                                                   checks that conditions are metfor
                                                   start of procurement (e g.
                                                   contractual documentations
                                                    adequate,local governmentPIU is
                                       rocuremen    mobilized, etc).

                                                    7. After cleared by Fund Manager,
                                                   the BRWIPM Procurement Support
                                                    Team works with local government
                                                    PIUto procurecontractor.

                                                    8. Contractor is mobilized. First
                                                    direct payment from the Fund
                                                    manager. Supervisionby
                                                    Consultantand local government
                                                    PU, subsequentpaymentsto
                                                    contractorbased on supervision
  CzZIl                                            evaluation.
                                                    9. BRR & IPM consultants develop
   Maintenance                                      asset management and
                                                    maintenance strategiesfor local
                                                    gov. PDCS-WChelps implement




                                     37

   ANNEX 4: FINANCING IMPLEMENTATIONOFINFRASTRUCTURERECONSTRUCTIONPROJECTS
                             AND


This annex focuses on how projects prepared by the IREP program will be financed and highlights that
spending large sums o f money effectively and efficiently has been difficult for BRR. BRR now has over a
year's experience implementing infrastructure projects upon which it can draw; indeed, important lessons
can be learned from BRR's activities and from its key development partners, local and provincial
government. The annex also explains how the main capacity issues affecting infrastructure development are
being addressed through the proposed TA program. Finally, it reviews BRR's exit strategy and, in
particular, the issue of financinghighquality projects after BRR concludes operations.

A.       Available Fundsto FinanceInfrastructure Projects

Table 1below estimates funds available to finance infrastructure projects to be designed and supervised by
REP consultants. The table provides estimates for: (a) remaining committed but unallocated funds (to
projects or sectors) for budget years 2007, 2008, and 2009; and (b) the estimated funds available for
infrastructure projects for the same three years. There are three sources o f funding: (a) BRR; (b) Decon or
special development grants to local government; and (c) local government funds.

      Table 1- Estimate of available funds for reconstruction and for infrastructure 2005 to 2009
                                                                                          -

Item                                                   BRR          Decon        Local       Total
                                                       ($mill.)     ($mill.)     ($mill.)    ($mill.)

Total funds for reconstruction
Total commitment- 2005 to 2009                         2,100        300           350        2,750
Already allocated- 05 & 06 budgets                     980          83            72         1,135
Remaining for 07,08, & 09                              1,120        217          278         1,615
Fundsavailable for infrastructure07 to 09
Estimated YOallocation to infrastructure               60           65           40
Total available for infrastructure 07 to 09            670          140           110        920
Less housing & housing infrastructure                  200
Available for infrastructure excluding housing         470          140           110        720
Estimate available for 2007                            300          55           45          400
Estimate available for 2008                            100          55           45          200
Estimate available for 2009                            70           30           20          120
Total available 2007 to 2009                           470          140           110        720

Estimates indicate that about US$700 million will be available in total for the three years from the three
sources. This i s more than enough to fund the projects to be designed and supervised by the IREP; the
expected level o f required funding will be o f the order o f US$400 to US$500 million. However, there are
three crucial points to be noted:

  (i)   BRR will be under considerable pressure to disburse quickly and, as noted above, it is likely than
        the bulk o f remaining funds will be allocated in 2007. A significant tranche from the BRR
         allocation (of the US$300 million estimate) will need to be reserved for projects designed by the
        IREP consultants (see below).
  (ii)  Fundingfrom Decon andlocal government sources may not be available for IREPprojects because
        o f decisions by local governments to spend the money according to their perceived needs. It i s
        anticipated though that BRR funds and technical assistance can be usedto effectively leveragethese
        two sources o f funding.



                                                      38

  (iii)Developmentfunds currently controlledbylocal governmentswillbespent onprojectsin21
         kabupatens and kota. As a result, all these finds may not be available to high priority projects
         which have been identifiedby IREP.

B.       Current Experience and LessonsLearned

Fiscal decentralization (in2001) along with the granting o f special autonomy status (in2005) has provided
Aceh with considerable and newfound financial resources. This, along with the massive financial inflow of
resources for relief and rehabilitation, has provided Aceh with the opportunity reshape its hture direction
and level o f prosperity. Unfortunately the province i s yet to capitalize on these opportunities to the full
extent possible. The development experience o f GoI's reconstruction agency- BRR andlocal government in
Aceh i s reviewedhere,

BRR's budget preparationprocess

BRR's budget process has four significant milestones: (i)    establishment o f budget ceiling; (ii)development
o fannual work plans; (iii)  budget preparation and DIPA; and, (iv) project implementation.

Procedures for establishing BRR's budget ceiling by parliament are rigorous and follow standard
procedures; but the process after this i s less clear. The current process o f translating the budget ceiling into
sector and sub-sector ceilings by BRR and fixed program budgets was somewhat ad hoc for the 2005 and
2006 budgets. It involvednegotiations by senior BRR personnel, andthe final arbiter, BRR's Director, who
eventually releasesbudget resources. BRR's budget i s framed (usually inthe October o f the year preceding
the budget year) so that it can readily receive parliamentary approval; this means it attempts to take into
account the expectations o f parliament's constituents. Current practice (for the 2005 and 2006 budget) was
for all budget resources to be allocated to satkers (single or relatively simple groups o f projects allocated to
a single implementing unit). In 2005 and 2006, no provision was included in the budget for block
expenditures by sector or sub-sector or geographic location that would leave some flexibility for specifylng
allocations at a later time inthe budget year.

BRR's mandate for budgetary procedures gives it some flexibility after the ceiling has been set. The post
tsunami and earthquake emergency o f 2005 meant that BRR's budgetary process followed few formalities
and regulations. This approach was modified for the 2006 budget when an attempt was made to jointly
leverage local government budgets with the BRR budget; a procedure which will be important in future
years. BRR reviews and revises its budget twice during the calendar year; the first time i s in June when
consideration i s given to budget additions and reallocations for the current year's budget and the second
time in Februarymarch o f the following when consideration i s given to which projects should be carried
over and what remaining or undisbursed funds should be reallocated. It i s evident that budget allocations
may be readily transferred between sub-sectors (energy, transport, and housing are all within the
infrastructure sector for example) but that transfers between sectors (infrastructure and economic
development for example) are more difficult; normally this can only be done at the June and February
reviews.

BRRproposes to reform its budget process with three main aims: (i) the effective and fair allocation
                                                                        ensure
o f resources; (ii) develop BRR's key position as a role model for other government institutions; and (iii)
promote good governance.




                                                        39

Disbursementof BRRfunds and project performance

Two tables are presented below. The first shows the level o f disbursements by satker as o f March 31,2006
for the 2005 program and budget, and the second shows the 2005 and 2006 budget by sector and sub-sector
(for infrastructure) andprovides an estimate o f the likely available carry over o f 2005 funds to 2006.


         Table 2- Level of disbursementsofthe 2005 budgetby satker as ofMarch31,2006

                                                                           Total 2005
    Level of Disbursement                                No. of Satkers   budget (Rp        % of2005 budget
                                                                          billion)
                                                           ~

     Satkers with zero disbursements                        3                  26            4 %
    Less than 5 % of 2005 budget                            15                364             9%
     Less than 10%of 2005 budget                            26                856             22%
     Less than 20% of 2005 budget                           46               1,643           41%
    Less than 30% of 2005 budget                            63               2,261            57%
    Less than 50% of2005 budget                             86               3,515            89%
    More than 50% of 2005 budget                            15                452             11%
    Total satkers                                           101              3,967




Table 2 aboveshowsthat:

  (i)    The average size o f the satker budget i s not large: Rp 39 billion (about US$4.2 million).
  (ii)   As o f March 31, 2006, 26 (of 101) satkers from the 2005 budget round have disbursed less than 10
         percent o f their 2005 budget. The total budget for these 26 satkers is about Rp 856 billion or 22
         percent o f the total BRR2005 budget.
  (iii)Sixtythree satkershavedisbursedlessthan30percentoftheir budgetandthebudgets ofthese
         satkers makes up about 57 percent o fthe total BRR2005 budget.
  (iv) Only fifteen satkers have disbursed more than 50 percent o f their budget and the budget o f these
         satkers makes up 11percent o f the BRRbudget (an average budget o f Rp 30 billion each).




                                                         40

 Table3 BRR's 2005 and 2006 budgetand carryoverby sector and sub-sector (for infrastructure)
            -

                                                                                               Likely
                                   Tot. 2005    Spent  to  Disburs.
                                                           %      from   Available  2006       available
     Sectorlsub-sector             budget       March 31,  2005          carryover  budget     funds for
                                    (Rpbill.)   2006 (Rp                 to   2006
                                                bill.)     budget                   (Rpbill.)  2006 (Rp
                                                           (%I           (Rpbill.)             bill.)
     Planning /programming           91          11         12             80        112        192
     Institutional                   770         122        16            648        774        1422
     Infrastructure
     -- Telecommunication           1619         450        28            1169       3454       4623
         Energy                      100          10        10             90        170        260
                                     13            1         8             12        62          74
     -- Transportation               285         31         11            254        290        544
     --- Housing
         Roads                       356         62         17            294        429        723
         Water & natural             417         184        44            233        390        623
         Humansettlement             65           18        28            47         120        167
                                     350         120        34            230        1895       2125
     -- Infrastructure
         Land                        25          23         92             2         98         100
                      oversight       8            1        13             7                      7
     Economic development            546         167        31            379        490        869
     Social & culture                270         64         24            206        353        559
     Education and health            480         154        32            326        454        780
     Secretariat & Nias rep.         191         126        66             65        196        261

     Total                          3967        1094        27.6         2873        5833       8706

Table3 above shows that:

 (i) AsofMarch31,2006, theaveragedisbursementrateforBRR's101satkersis27.6percent.
 (ii)Thehealthsectorhasthehighestlevelofdisbursementsintermsofpercentofbudgetspentat41
          percent followed by economic development at 31percent.
 (iii)Theinfrastructuresectorhasanaveragedisbursementrateof28percent(theportfolioaverage).The
          best performing sub-sector i s land cadastre and the worst three disbursing sub-sectors are
          telecommunication, energy, andtransportation.
 (iv) No funds from the 2006 budget havebeen spent as o fMarch31,2006.
 (v)      BRR's likely budget carry-over from 2005 to 2006 will be about Rp 2800 billion (about US300
          million).
 (vi) The available BRR funds for 2006 will likely be about Rp 8700 billion or some 2.2 times the
          amount which was available in2005.
 (vii) BRR funds available for infrastructure in2006 are about Rp4600 billion(about US$500 million) or
          2.9 times the amount available in2005.

BRRissues

Even though BRR has only been operational for about twelve months, some key issues and lessons have
become clear:

 (i)      Disbursements have not met expectations. Possible reasons for this include: (a) unrealistic and
          unreasonable expectations; (b) satkers were formed late andbecame functional even later; (c) some
          satkers were relocated as late as December causing further disruption; (d) satker activities are often
          complex, poorly prepared, not adequately screened, and not ready for immediate implementation;
          (e) satker supervision i s often inadequate because o f location, workload on BRR deputies and their
          staff, inadequate capacity, and an inadequate centralized structure; (f) the program monitoring


                                                        41

        system i s passive as opposed to one which is timely and active (g) capacity inmany satkers is weak
        and satker managers often lack specific project-related training, operations manuals andprocedures,
        adequately trained personnel, and technical support; and (h) satker managers have been attempting
        to serve two or three key stakeholders or masters- BRR, their line ministry, and local government;
        thisoften frustrates efforts to expedite implementation andresults inoverlap and confusion.
        So far BRR's apuroach to reconstruction has been relatively ad hoc and i s often driven by factors
        other than a systematic and programmed approach to development. The problem i s exacerbated by
        annual (as opposed to multi-year) budget procedures and the perceived need to be disbursing
        regardless o f work quality.
        Some satkers hold the view that BRR lacks technical suuuort and exuertise to assist with project
        implementation and supervision. BRR's current centralized structure exacerbates the problem.
        Procurement procedures can be cumbersome and difficult to manage; this often slows project
        implementation.
        Rising living and operational costs were not captured in the 2005 DIPA; in some cases, finds
        allocated to specific projects were inadequate to cover all costs, especially operational costs.
        BRR's strategy o f designing small Projects to be implemented by individual satkers and small
        contractors tends to limit economies o f scale, complicate coordination and hinder sector or
        geographic wide approaches to development.
        Many satkers lack physical capacity to carry out their assigned tasks. Staff numbers are minimal
        and many employees work excessive hours. Incentives provided to key implementation personnel
        often do not matchthe tasks at hand.
  (viii) Suecific lessons from Nias include the following: (a) many implementation delays are the result o f
        holdups inprogram approval, unrealistic expectations, and the time taken to establish and move the
        control o f key satkers from Medan to Nias; and (b) BRR's decision to decentralize key decision
        making, move satker management to the kabupaten, appoint a skilled and appropriate management
        team that involves itself actively inkey satker management, and expedite contractor payments, will
        have significant benefits for Nias.
  (ix)  On-going manapement and maintenanceo fprogram assets will likely be problematic.
  (x)   BRRhashad some difficulty managing itsconsultants effectivelv.

Local GovernmentRevenueandExpenditure

Funding for local government in Aceh is derived from; (i) sources (PAD), (ii)
                                                                local                        intergovernmental
transfers based onrevenue sharing arrangements; and (iii)  other sources from central government.

Indonesia's decentralization laws have provided local government with the opportunity to expand local
source revenue (PAD). This revenue comes from local taxes, local levies, revenues o f local state-owned
enterprises, and other eligible local revenues.

Intergovernmental transfers based on revenue sharing arrangements have become the major source of
revenue for regional government in Aceh. Revenue sharing applies to income from tax and income from
natural resources- mainly oil and gas; rates are set between central, regonal, and provincial governments.
Non tax revenue sharing i s weighted towards producingkabupatenkota. Provisions relating to the Special
Autonomy Fund (Otsus Fund) prescribe that Aceh will receive an additional share o f oil and gas revenue
which will decline in the ninthyear o f the arrangement.    Other tax revenue sharing arrangements apply to
the disbursement ofincome to kabupatenkotafromincomederived fromprovincial taxation.

Other sources o f revenue from central government include revenue from the DAU or General Allocation
Fundandthe DAK or Specific Allocation Fund. The DAUis allocated inthe form o fblock grants andthe
DAKare conditional grants covering specific sectors.



                                                      42

Table 4 below summarizes local government revenue and expenditure for the years 1999, 2002, and
2005.

               Table 4 Provincial and Kabupatedkota (Rp billion) excludingBRR's budget
                       -                                                 -

  Item                            x d q d 5 x                                                   2005
                                                                                         Kab    Prov     Total
  Revenue                                              1165    3408    1497    4905       5184   1915    7099
  Expenditure
  Routine
  -- Personnel                     473      110        583     1690    293     1983       3415  1119     4534
                                   314      34         348     1212    122     1334       2137  181      2318
     Other                          159     76         235    478      171     649        1278  938      2216
  Development                      370      170        540     1668    1060    2728       2795  942      3737
  Total expenditure                843      280        1123    3358    1353    4711       6210  2061     8271
  Development percent              44%      61%        48%     50%     78%     58%        45%   46%      45%

As a result of Aceh's revenue sharing arrangements provincial revenue has increased dramatically. The
table above notes that provincial income (kabupaten and provincial) increased by a factor o f 4.2 between
1999 and 2002. It increased again significantly between 2002 and 2004 before dropping back slightly to
about Rp 7100 billion (about US$750 million) in2005 as a result of reduced income from oil and gas from
which Aceh receives a major portion o f its income. The highlevels o f income produced from these assets i s
expected to last only till 2009 after which sharing arrangements reduce Aceh's share and production
declines as reserves deplete.

While regional spendinghas increased sharply between 1999 and 2005, the percentage o f total routine costs
spent on salaries has remained relatively consistent at between 60 and 70 percent for kabupatenkota and
between 20 and 30 percent for the provincial government. After decentralization, responsibility for the
delivery o f most public services was transferred to local government; probably the main reason for the
major increase inexpenditure on salaries. Development expenditure has increased in-line with increases in
provincial revenue taking about the same percentage o f total expenditure. Kabupatenkota governments
spend more on development thanthe provincial government inabsolute terms but the provincial government
spends a greater percentage o f income on development.

Local GovernmentIssues

The major issues facing local government and organizationsworking with local governments are:

   (i)    Capacitv varies between local government units but a recent review'* o f local government capacity
          noted that: (a) staff numbers were mostly adequate but there were major problems relating to the
          skills and motivationo f personnel; (b) some local governments lack funds for development and this
          i s thought to be largely the result o f increased expenditure on salaries; (c) managerial capacity and
          leadership skills are weak; and (d) communities perceive local governments as lacking
         responsiveness. Overall, local governments lack the capacity to adequately perform project
          planning, implementation, supervision andmaintenance.
   (ii)   Local government revenue increased significantly as did their responsibility to provide ongoing
          services. But, it i s clear though that revenue from oil and eras will decline this decade because o f
          declining productionandbecause o f the sharingprovisions inthe decentralization agreement. Local


I 2District Governments' Capacity Assessment: Service Delivery and Implementing ReconstructioninAceh- Tunas
Aceh Research Institute- December 2005


                                                          43

        governments will need to find alternative revenue sources if they are to provide ongoing services,
        undertake further development andmaintain their assets.
  (iii)Generally,lessthanhalfoflocalgovernmentrevenueisspentondevelopment; itappearsthatlocal
        government expects the BRR budget to cover most development needs. When BRR's mandate
        expires in 2009, there will however still be significant development and maintenance needs at the
        kabupaten level.

C.      The Way Fonvard

Addressing themain capacityissues

The experience discussed inthe preceding section shows that some o f the main problems that have hindered
implementation o f infrastructure projects in the past relate to capacity issues on the part o f local
governments, as well as on the part o f BRR.IREPwill help implement a series o fmeasures, at each stage of
the project cycle (from broad strategic planningto individualproject), to address these capacity issues.

        The quality o f infrastructure planning at the kabupaten as well as at the strategic level will be
        strengthened through the assistance o f the West Coast, Nias, Strategic, and IPM consultants. As
        mentioned in annex 2, the West Coast and Nias consultants will help local governments identify
        immediate priority projects and develop longer term plans for infrastructure deployment. I P M
        consultants, for their part, will assist BRRinreviewingthe planspreparedby local governments and
        inplanningstrategic investments that lay beyond the responsibility of West Coast and Nias local
        governments.
        The quality o f individual project preparation - in particular the drafting o f detailed designs and
        tender documents, o f any required safeguard measures, and o f contractual clauses that enhance
        performance incentives - will be strengthened. The West Coast, Nias and Strategic Projects
        consultants will help relevant government bodies with project preparation, while IPM consultants
        will assist BRRinspot checking the quality o fproject documents (and inacquiring the capacity that
        itneedsto assist inthe preparationofthe required safeguard assessmentsandstudies).
        The quality o f individual project supervision will be strengthened through the same assistance
        package as that applicable to project preparation: West Coast, Nias and Strategc Projects
        consultants will help relevant government bodies with day to day project supervision, while IPM
        consultants will assist BRR inspot checking the quality o fproject implementation.
        Procurement processes - one o f the key weaknesses so far - will also be strengthened. A central
        procurement team will be establish within BRR to facilitate the process o f procuring the various
        infrastructure projects identified and prepared through the project cycle supported by the proposed
        TA program. IPMconsultants will beresponsible for assisting this centralprocurement team.
        BRRwill benefit from the assistanceof an additional team o fconsultants tasked withhelpingBRR
        design strengthened financial management processes and safeguards applicable to all BRR-financed
        projects.
        Finally, some steps have been taken to help BRR manage its consultants in a more effective and
        pro-active manner than inthe past. First, the IPMconsultants will assist BRR inmanaging the four
        other consultant teams (West Coast, Nias, Strategc, and Financial Management teams) to be
        established under the proposed TA program. Second, BRR has established a strong secretariat
        within the project management unit, which is tasked with full time management of the five
        consultant teams (including IPM).In addition, BRR will draw on some o f its international advisors
        -alreadymobilized-tohelpmanagetheIPMconsultants.




                                                     44

Ensuringsuacientfinancingflexibility

BRR will submit its 2007 budget proposal to Parliament in October 2006. However, the proposed TA
program may not be in place in time to generate project proposals to BRR before October 2006. If the TA
program i s to impact BRR's 2007 investments (as it clearly should), ways have to be found to maintain
financing flexibility for 2007 beyond October 2006 (this issue does not arise for 2008 and 2009 as
consultant inputs to the 2008 and 2009 investment programs can be received well before BRR's 2008 and
2009 budget proposals are finalized).

Some stem needto be taken inthat resuect:
  (0      BRRcan proposerevisions ofits 2007 budget to MOF at any point intime. BRRcan therefore take
          into account consultants' recommendations regarding the 2007 infrastructure program after October
          2006.
  (ii)BRRneedstomaintainacertaindegreeofflexibility inits2007budgetproposal.Apromising
          solution would be to allocate at least part o f BRR's 2007 infrastructure budget to specific
          kabupatens without specifying, ex ante, how kabupaten allocations will be divided between
          different infrastructure sectors and/or projects.
  (iii)FundsfromtheMDTFcanbeallocatedtoinfrastructureinvestmentsin2007.Asthesefundsdonot
          need to be allocated ex-ante to specific projects, they would complement BRR's own hnds and
          help increase overall financing flexibility for infrastructure in 2007. In the context of this type of
          financing facility, BRR management has indicated that it i s interested inusing a larger amount o f
          MDFfunds in2007 than in2008 and 2009 inorder to maximize financing flexibility in2007.

Financinglarger contracts

In2005 and2006,oneofBRR'smainobjectiveshasbeento ensurethat localcontractorscarriedoutmuch
o f the reconstructionwork inAceh. Inorder to achieve this objective, BRRhas tended to design a very large
number o f small contracts: 101 satkers (or project managers) managed very many more (than 101) distinct
contracts in 2005. This policy promotes the resurgence o f economic activity in Aceh and responds to clear
political imperatives. This policy has serious drawbacks however: (i)it complicates the management and
coordination o f the overall infrastructure reconstruction program; (ii) multiplies the number of satkers and
                                                                         it
therefore imposes high demand on limited human resources; and (iii) fails to take advantage o f possible
                                                                           it
economies o f scale.

The TORSo f the various consultant teams to be hired under IREP emphasize the need to design contracts in
ways that reap the benefits o f economies o f scale whenever possible. Some additional measures need to be
adopted to strike abetter balancebetween local preference andefficiency imperatives:

  (i)     More o f BRR's own finds couldbe allocated to larger contracts.
  (ii)    MDF finds, which are not subject to the same political imperatives as BRR's own finds, could be
          allocated to large contracts. Inthe context o f the envisaged BRR/MDF financing facility, this could
          call for allocating MDF finds to different projects from BRR's own h d s (rather than having BRR
          andMDFsystematically co-finance each investment).
  (iii)Tenderdocumentsforlargercontractscouldbedesignedinsuchawayastoencouragesomesub-
          contracting to local entrepreneurs.

D.          FinancingHigh Quality ProjectsAfter BRR's MandateExpires BRR's ExitStrategy
                                                                                 -
Local governments will face three main challenges as they seek to maintain the quality o f infrastructure
investment programs beyond 2009. First, the proposed TA program will help local government prepare and
implement highquality projects, but ensuring that local governments maintain this capacity beyond the end


                                                         45

of the TA program will be a challenge. Second, capacity issues might be compounded by lack o f local
government ownership o f projects financed by BRR (even though local governments will sign off on
projects prepared by IREP) which might result in inadequate maintenance in the post BRR period. Third,
while local government revenues have substantially increased over the past few years, the revenues derived
from natural resources will likely decline after 2009 as Aceh's share o f oil and gas revenues decreases after
2009.

A numberof measuresneedto betakento addressthese challenges:

        The TORSo f the REP consultant teams include not only helping local government with the
        identification and implementation o f high quality infrastructure projects but also assisting them to
        build their long term capacity in this area. The consultants will aim at transferring knowledge by
        guiding the local governments as they prepare their own investments proposals; in other words,
        emphasis will be on learning by doing (in addition to targeted training), which i s likely to be the
        most effective form o f capacity building.
        In the area of procurement, a gradual transfer of responsibilities to local governments will also
        contribute to capacity building. During the first year o f implementation o f the proposed TA
        program, procurement h c t i o n s are likely to beperformed, at least for the most important contracts,
        directly by the centralized procurement team. IPMwill, inparallel, carry out procurement capacity
        assessments at the local government level in order to determine training needs, with a view to
        transferring increased responsibility for procurement to the local governments capable o f handling
        these tasks effectively.
        Inthe area o f financial management, a gradual transfer o f responsibilities will take place as well.
        The present system, whereby KPPN pays contractors directly (in a way that bypasses local
        governments' budget) has worked quite well. In order to build local government's financial
        management capacity, however, there should be a progressive transition to a system whereby KPPN
        transfers funds to local government budgets (so that contractors are paid by local governments).
        T h i s transition should only take place though if it i s possible to replicate at the local government
        level, the KPPNprocesses that are currently working well.
        In order to increase local government ownership, local government will be asked to co-finance
        infrastructure projects with BRR (and MDF). Local government could in fact be asked to cover an
        increasing share o f the costs o f infrastructure projects over the course o f the next three years. Such
        measures combined with consultants' assistance to BRR and to local government in devising
        appropriate asset management and maintenance strategies, would go some way toward reducing the
        risk that local government might fail to maintain the projects that will be financed over the next
        three years.
        Mobilization o f local source revenues and revenue transfers from other levels o f government will
        need to be reviewed to ensure that local government revenues inAceh are sustained, beyond 2009,
        at sufficient levels to ensure continued development and maintenance o f local infrastructure.




                                                        46

                          ANNEX5: LOCAL     GOVERNMENT         CAPACITYBUILDING



A.       Background

Both the post-disaster and post-conflict conditions have paralyzed local government activities, which has
left local governments no other choice but to deal with the generous yet overwhelming supply o f donor and
NGO activity. The following is a brief analysis that assesses the gaps and overlaps o f donor capacity
buildingprograms that have beenimplementedover the past 6 months (10/05 -3/06).

B.       Donor-supportedCapacityBuildingPrograms

The following informationderives from a mapping exercise with the following objectives:

1.       Collect information pertaining to donor capacity buildingprograms across all sectors in Aceh and
organize according to which donors are providing capacity buildingprograms on the provincial and district
levels specifically to local governments;

2.       Analysis of overlaps and gaps o f capacity building programs supplied to local government by
donors related to infrastructure development with focus on: program planning, design, procurement,
implementation, supervision, safeguards compliance, and maintenance o fBRR-funded projects.

3.       Provide a broad picture o f current donor capacity building programs focused on infrastructure
development in Aceh in order for I P M consultants to strengthen BRR and local governments to develop
strategic plans resultingfrom identificationo f donor programs.

The following donors have been considered inthis analysis:

     Asian Development Bank: Earthquake andTsunami Emergency Support Project (ETESP)
     UnitedNations Development Programme: Aceh Emergency Response and Transitional Recove
     Programme
     German Development Ministry: GTZ - Support to Local Governments and Community Planning
      (Component 1o f GTZ ProGReS)
     Canadian International Development Agency: Governance Reform Support Program
     United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment: (LGSP, A-TARP)
     JICA: Community Empowerment Programfor RehabilitatiodReconstruction o fAceh and
    North Sumatra
     BritishRedCross, Canadian RedCross, AmericanRedCross andAustralian RedCross
     EC/GTZ:Aceh Local GovernanceAction Program(ALGAP)

Summary o f analysis. Inorder for local governments to establish comprehensive strategic.plans, it i s critical
for them to achieve synergies with donor programs and compliment such programs based on community
needs. Currently, what i s needed from the donor community i s a series o f local government capacity
buildingprograms that are demand driven, focused on long term sustainable investments, and improve the
quality o f local government capacity. Also, it i s critical that donors' work to strengthen the relationships
between executive and legislative both on the provincial and local levels based on lessons learned and best
practices. Overall, donor programs should seek to introduce a new range o f services and concepts to
advance local government capacity beyond pre-tsunami levels.




                                                      47

C.       Donor-supportedCapacityBuildingProgramsinInfrastructure

Donor programs focused on infrastructure development fall under the following 6 themes: Housing, Water
and Sanitation, Hazard Risk Management and Disaster Mitigation, Safeguards, Environmental
Management, and Community InfrastructurePlanning. Inthe 11Kabupaten locations where the IREP plans
to work, the highest concentration o f donor support i s in Banda Aceh, Aceh Besar and Aceh Jaya.
Specifically, in Banda Aceh and Aceh Jaya, ADBETESP and GTZ Support to Local Government and
Community Action Planning Program are heavily focused on program planning and design. Also, both
donors have a similar framework andplanning process inworking with communities to develop action plans
for housing. Both donors provide support to provincial and local governments to integrate them in the
facilitationprocess and establish database management systems which would allow for local governments to
manage infrastructure programs and establish requirements for other donors wanting to support
implementation inthe future.

Donor programs under UNDPERTRP, British, Canadian and American Red Cross have a                                   similar
participatory, community based approach mostly targeting sub-district and village level communities
through training and facilitation. Almost all donor programs focused on infrastructure programs mapped
incorporate hazardrisk management and/or environmental maintenance/management programs andtraining.
Donors focused on community and village level infrastructure development planning also have a similar
approach in scheme, design and methodology. For example, program facilitators/technical assistants are
hired to facilitate a process that engages communities in an action planning process based on either lessons
learned or mapping out site plans which incorporate training on maintenance o f facilities and assessment o f
implementation procedures.

Mapping also revealed that donor programs primarily target communities at the sub-district and village
level. Donor programs targeting community levels do realize that inorder to have effective and sustainable
infiastructure programs it is critical to incorporate local governments from the provincial down to the village
level. The weakness o f implementingthis strategic approach i s that donors either do not currently have the
funding to engage within all levels o f local government institutions and/or are only designed to meet the
short term immediate needs o f communities affected by the tsunami and earthquake. Donors that do focus
on strengthening local governments at the provincial and/or district level are USAID-LGSP and A-TARP,
CIDA, SPADA and GTZ. However, with the exception o f GTZ and USAID-LGSP, programs are process-
and planning-oriented to provide technical assistance and guidelines for procedures on environmental and
construction issues.

D.       PerceivedGaps

The information collected in this mapping did not reveal any overlaps in the two major types of
infrastructure capacity building programs: Housing Reconstruction and Water/Sanitati~n'~.However, the
data did reveal serious gaps both in infrastructure planning and implementation and quality control which
could eventually result in bottlenecks. Gaps in infrastructure capacity building programs are correlated
within the following three categories: teams, geographic, and basic needs vs. beyond local economic
development.




13These data do not include NGOinfrastructure capacity buildingprograms inthe region and should not be considered
the overall picture of all infrastructure activity inAceh. For more accurate informationregarding all infiastructure
programs across sectors refer to the RANDDatabase: www-e-aceh-nias.org


                                                             48

Teams
        Housing construction and water and sanitation programs lack monitoring and evaluation o f
        environmental inspection and trainings to communities on how to assess environmental hazards for
        disaster preparedness, such as flood controls. While donor programs do incorporate disaster risk
        management into their programs, they tend to be weak incapacity.

        Donors implementing infrastructure programs, while strong in technical expertise, lack capacity
        buildingprograms that strengthen provincial and local governments on procurement issues andor
        engaging inthe right type o f investmentsto meet the needs o f communities.

        The design o f donor infrastructure programs lack anti-corruption components, which would help
        local governments fight against collusion and corruption when making investment decisions.
        Programs also lack components such as a complaint handling mechanism that would assist local
        governments and communities on how to formulate a committee/advisory board that would
        facilitate and mediate any complaints made by communities on quality andprocess o f donor-funded
        infrastructure programs.

Geography
    e   Currently, infrastructure planning inthe province o f Aceh resides with donors and BRR, andnot in
        the hands of local governments. Mapping revealed there are currently no donor programs focused
        on teaching local governments technical skills on how to identify and prioritize appropriate donor-
        funded programs and then direct them to locations inneed o finfrastructure development.

    e   Donor infrastructure capacity buildingprograms are geographically targeted to the west coast of the
        province, mostly to the areas affected by the tsunami and earthquake. Locations such as central and
        east Aceh, which were damaged by the conflict, lack donor infrastructure programs. These locations
        are in immediate need of not only housing reconstruction, but also infrastructure programs,
        including training in institutional design and essential service delivery to provincial and local
        governments andreintegrating displaced people back into their villages.

E.      Recommendations

In light of this assessment, it appears that a participatory program targeting local governments to build
competence for identification, management and supervision o f infrastructure projects would be an
appropriate approach for the proposed IREP project. The recommendations below focus on the following
areas: program planning, design, procurement, implementation, supervision, safeguards compliance,
maintenance o f BRR-funded projects, and collaboration with other donors working on similar issues.

        Program planning and design. The IREP project i s unique in its focus on action learning - local
        government staff, especially P U employees, will learn best practices through hands on experience
        and guidance from technical experts working as a team (i.e., training and strategizing on
        architectural plans, assessing the visual quality o f constructions/engineering designs and skills on
        studying and writing o f tender documents). By pairing the TA consultant teams with local
        government staff, it i s anticipated that this hands-on learning will be the most effective learning
        mechanism since workshops and other classroom-based trainings tend to be less sustainable over
        time. Oftensuch activities are heldwithout adequate follow up andknowledge gained i s forgotten.

        Program design. While the design o f the IREPproject takes into account that the current capacity of
        local governments i s weak, it i s also critical to assess the capacity o f DPRD and Bapedalda- which



                                                        49

  also need skills such as on the job training, staff management, financial management and form
  synergies based on a collective approachbetween municipalitieson the planningprocess.

  Implementation quality and supervision. The timeframe o f the proposed KEP i s another asset - m
  the program i s three years long, which should give sufficient time for the local government staff to
  absorb and systematize knowledge and experience gained for improved quality and supervision of
  infrastructure reconstructionand development.

0 Procurement. Training for local government authorities under the project will help ensure
  transparency o f fund flows andprevent corruption. Strengtheningthe procurement system through a
  combination o f training programs, on the job training and gradual transfer o f procurement
  responsibilities will help local governments make more informedinvestments.

  Maintenance. To ensure sustainability o f the investments, training and awareness-raising programs
  will be offered to local government staff on strategies for maintenance o f works. Furthermore, as
  the project progresses towards the third year, the consultant team will h c t i o n as advisers to local
  government officials more so than executors o fproject design andimplementation.

  Safeguards compliance. Social and environmental safeguards compliance training will be another
  key area for human resource development, which will enhance community-driven processes and
  reinforce the voice o f affected communities in the identification and design o f projects. Safeguards
  will also ensure environmental quality is maintained and enhance the service delivery beyond pre-
  tsunami procedures to those affected by the disasters (for more information regarding
  environmental and social safeguards framework, refer to annex 9).

  Collaboration with other donors. One o f the main objectives o f the R E P program is to complement
  rather than duplicate existing donor programs already providing support to local governments. As a
  result o f this mapping, the following i s a brief description o f two existing donor programs (USAID-
  LGSP and SPADA) working with local governments, specifically on procurement, asset
  management, budgeting/financial management andtraining to strengthen DPRD.It i s recommended
  the IREP program work with these donor programs and utilize this opportunity to coordinate and
  possibly expandtheir scope into proposed KEP locations.

      o USAID-LGSP (Local Governance Support Program) has three components that could be
           linked into the REP program: (i)     procurement; (ii) management and (iii)
                                                                     asset                     training to
           DPRD. LGSP works with local governments to streamline procurement issues by
           developing "live programs," which review already existing past and present local
           government procurement procedures to further develop future procurement program
           guidelines. Training also provides tools such as accounting, law, and computer data based
           programs. LGSP assists local governments on how to assess inventory o f assets, identify
           value and appraisal, and how to make idle assets productive, LGSP also works to
           strengthen DPRD (district only) through workshops focused on: a,) sensitivity to citizen
           participation, b.) budget cycles and financial management through performance based
           budgeting systems, c.) how to make laws transparent and provide accountability, and d.)
           capacity buildinginlegal drafting and local law writing.

      o Support for Poor and Disadvantaged Areas (SPADA) is a Government o f Indonesia effort
           to help local governments o f disadvantaged areas to solve their underlying problems by
           giving local governments a basic framework and support for implementing socioeconomic
           development strategies. The project will deliver significant quantities o f small-medium



                                                  50

scale economic infrastructure and improved social services in health, education and
economic development inrecovering areas, across 17 districts inAceh and will allow for an
extended long term recovery planning across Aceh. To strengthen local governments,
SPADA will implementthree main capacity buildingcomponents: (i)     strengthening district,
sub district and village administrative capacities to prepare social and infrastructure
projects; (ii)anchoring bottom up planning in local government institutions and civil
society organizations; and (iii)
                               working to improve local government capacity to deliver
critical development programs. To strengthen local government procedures at the district
level, SPADA intends to partner with USAID-LGSP in 5 districts: Banda Aceh, Aceh
Besar, Aceh Barat, Aceh Jaya and Nagan Raya, which already have a strong program and
experience intraining and buildingthe capacity o f local governments inIndonesia. USAID
aims to support the national planning process through a service improvement mechanism,
which SPADA i s currently considering using as a tool to drive community development
planning.




                                   51

--


5 .

I     I_
       I




 0
 9



               -




       I  '


                                         ANNEX 6: COORDINATIONAND PARTNEBHIPS

        The success o f the Infrastructure Reconstruction EnablingProgram (IREP) greatly depends on coordination
        and partnerships with the numerous parties involved in reconstruction activities; REP consultancies will
        first utilize existing plans and programs (when feasible) o f local and provincial governments, NGOs, and
        donors for the basis o f its work. Below i s a table outlining activities currently being undertaken by other
        donors across infrastructure sectors.

Sector Work                                                                     Integration with IREP
Water and           UNICEF:Overallsector donor coordination,monitoring,data     IREP will work through established coordination
Sanitation          collection andqualitycontrol.                               channels, and use existing sector strategies (when
                    USAID-ESP: Institutionalstrengtheningof LGs and PDAMs       applicable) as basis for future work.          The
                    inAcehBesarandAcehJaya.                                      Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) will
                    Swiss SDC:      Development and operational support to       seek    to improve donor coordination and
                    Lambarowater treatment plant inBanda Aceh, and twinning formulation of long-term sector strategies and
                    agreementwith its PDAM.                                      priorities (developing cost recovery schemes and
                    Dutch SAD-SAS: Assistance to PDAM in O&M and                 OBA programs to phase out O&M donor
                    managementimprovement.                                       subsidies, for example). It will also improvedata
                    ADB: Support for rural watsan reconstruction planning,       sharing and sector monitoring.          The IREP
                    capacitybuildingandtrainings providedat provincial, district programs assistinglocal & provincial government
                    andvillage level.                                            will assist in coordinationof these programs with
                    IRD: Rural water supply and sanitation assistance to 200     respective governments, as well as facilitate
                    villages inthe West Coast.                                   implementation andqualitycontrolofworks.
Roads,Transport,    USAID:ReconstructionofB.Aceh to MeulabohRd                   IREP will coordinate closely with the major
& other             JICS:Repair ofMeulabohto CalangRd                            infrastructure programs. On-going and planned
Infrastructure      ADB: Repair & reconstructionofportionsof Sigli to B. Aceh    works will be integrated into planningand design
                    Rd.                                                          considerations of provincial & district projects.
                     CRS: Rd& bridge works on West Coast                         These initiativeswill be factored into IREPproject
                    UNDP:Design& rehab ofkey ports                               phasing and prioritization. When possible, IREP
                    WFP: Restorationand operationofportfacilities                will considering utilizing the planddesigns
                    France: Support through Sogreah consultants for planning,    prepared under these consultancies for IREP
                    engineering,anddesign                                        investments.
                    Dutch: Planning,design, andengineeringof seadefenses
Land                RALAS: Community-led land titling & rehab of land IREP consultants will utilize existing plans that
Administration&      administrationprogram                                       have been agreed on by communities and local
Community            JICA: MasterPlanfor B.Aceh                                  governments (that are technically feasible).
Mapping              ADB: Village Planning                                       Consultants will upgrade, when necessary to
                     USAID: YIPD programon landmaps & standards                  implement, existing plans. Village plans will
                     GTZ: Village-leveldevelopmentplans& mapping                 serve as the base for identificationof community
                                                                                priorities.
Mapping              Norway: 1:2000 scale photos of urban areas and partial Mapswill be distributedto IREP consultants,and
                     sections ofcoast                                            will be used for improvedquality ofplanning, site
                                                                                 preparatioddesign, and monitoring. Mapswill be
                                                                                 sharedwith district andprovincialgovernment.
Support to BRR                                                                    Integrationwith IREP
                     UNDP: Operational advisors to the BRR, sector experts,      Substantial numbers of sector advisors have been
                     fundingfor ASCIL on quality assurance & monitoring          mobilized under various TA programs to support
                     USAID: ATARP, 3~yearprogram of TA to BRR, project the BRR. IREP is not to replace these programs
                     managementadvisory services, andstudies                      or consultants, but will build from their existing
                     UNICEF: Technical advisorsto the BRRregionaloffices.        work.     Partnerships, integration & sharing of
                                                                                 works, and coordination across BRR divisions
                                                                                 will bekey for carryingout IREPtasks.
Support to Local ndProvincial Government                                          Integration with IREP
                     SPADA:Capacitybuilding for localgovernments                  Several donors and NGOs are working directly
                     ADBETESP: Environmental management and spatial               with local and provincial governments on
                     planningTA to LGs                                            capacity building, and training for planning and
                     USAIDIA-TARP: Training for LGs on housing, support on        implementation support.       Little overlap or
                     planning.                                                    duplication is    anticipated between existing
                     GTZ: Support to LGs and Community Action Planning & programsandIREPConsultant'swork.
                     Programming



                                                                    57

                              ANNEX 7: PROCUREMENTPLANAND ASSESSMENT



A.        Introduction

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in
the Grant Agreement. The general description o f the various components and the proposed selection
procedures are detailed below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant from the MDTFANS, the
consultant selection method, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between
the Grant Recipient (BRR) and the Bankproject team inthe Procurement Plan. This plan will be updated at
least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.

There will be no procurement o f works or goods under the Grant.

B.        Selectionof Consultants

The projectwill finance TA assignments. The five maincomponents are as follows:

Component 1: Infrastructure ProgramManagement (IPM) (estimated at US$19.5 million): This component
aims at strengtheningBRR's ability to carry out programmanagement functions by recruiting a core team of
highly qualified experts who will be deployed within the existing BRR structure for infrastructure working
directly with existing staff. They will provide assistanceto BRR ineight specific areas:
        overall strategic infrastructure programming for Aceh and Nias, as per the BRR Infrastructure
        Strategy (applies to all infrastructure projects, regardless o f source o f financing);
        program management o f the reconstruction process in Aceh and Nias (applies to all infrastructure
        projects, regardless o f source o f financing);
        review o f local and provincial governments' plans for infrastructure investment as a basis for BRR
        funding (applies only to infrastructure projects financedbyBRR/MDF);
        quality control, supervision, and monitoring o f BRR-funded infrastructure projects (applies only to
        infrastructure projects financed byBRR/MDF);
        procurement support for BRR-funded infrastructure projects (applies only to infrastructure projects
        financed by BRR/MDF);
        safeguard support for BRR-funded infrastructure projects (applies only to infrastructure projects
        financed by B W F ) ;
        anti-cormption support for BRR-funded infrastructure projects (applies only to infrastructure projects
        financed by B W D F ) ; and
        support to BRR in managing the consultant teams that will assist with implementation o f the other
        components o fthe proposedproject.

The procurement services will include carrying the actual procurement for the first 24 months o f the
implementation o f the investment phase (i.e., implementation o f infrastructure projects designed under this
grant) while in parallel assessing the procurement capacity at the local government level, developing this
capacity through a combination o f training programs, on the job training, and gradual transfer o f
procurement responsibilities to the local governments in the last 12-18 months o f the investment phase of
the project and which will be financed under following project(s).




                                                         58

The services for this component will fall under one contract selected usingQuality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS).

Component 2: West Coast Infrastructure Planning, Design and Construction Supervision (estimated at
US$10 million): This component o f the IREP project aims at strengthening the ability o f those seven local
governments to improve the provision of infrastructure in their respective jurisdictions by providing
technical experts to assist them in this area. These experts are expected to work closely with the planning
and public works departments o f the local governments. They will provide assistance to these local
governments in three main areas: (i)planning; (ii)project design preparation o f tender documents,
implementation and supervision, including compliance with environmental and social safeguards policies;
and(iii) institutional development support and training.

The services for this component will be under one contract selected usingQuality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS).

Component 3: Nias Infrastructure Planning, Design, and Construction Supervision (estimated at US$6
million): Nias' infrastructure needs are particularly large inthe transport sector: district roads, bridges, ports
andairports needto berehabilitated andexpanded. This component ofthe project is structuredvery muchin
the same way as component 2, with the aim o f assisting the two local governments in Nias Island with
"strategic planning" and "project design and implementation" capacities. The same activities required under
component 2 will be requiredhere. Because Nias is an island separated from the mainland, and because its
infrastructure needs are somewhat more exclusively centered on transport than those o f the seven local
governments o f the West Coast, a specific component o fthe proposedproject focus on the specific needs o f
Nias. Accordingly, this component has been launched separately from component 2.

The services for this component will be under one contract using selection based on Consultant's
Qualifications (CQ). This has been agreed to by the Bank on an exceptional basis due to the urgency o f the
needs inNias.

Component 4: Strategic Infrastructure Project Planning, Design and Supervision (estimated at US5
million): Inadditionto the infrastructure projects under the direct responsibility o f the local governments on
the West Coast andNias, there are additional strategic infrastructure projectsthat needto be implemented as
a matter o f priority and that fall under the responsibility o f other local governments, the provincial
government, or possibly the national government. This fourth component o f the proposed project i s
designed to strengthen the ability o f BRR and that o f the relevant governments to cany out such strategic
infrastructure projects. This assistance will be providedby experts who will be located within BRR and who
will work closely with the relevant governments and will provide services for project identification, design
and implementation in strategic priority infrastructure projects such as the airport, road, power and port
sectors; and for supervising the implementation o f the projects.

The services for this component will be under one contract selected usingQuality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS).

Component 5: Financial Management o f BRR-Financed Projects (US$1.5 million). BRR needs to put in
place the financial management framework required to ensure that it meets all its fiduciary responsibilities
with respect to the projects that it finances. This component o fthe proposedproject is designed to strengthen
BRR's capacity inthis respect. This assistance will be provided by experts located within BRR. Financial
management o f BRR-financed projects will include assistance to PMU and PIUs to establish and maintain
financial accounting and monitoring arrangements for project activities undertaken and expenditures
incurred at all project locations, includingmonitoringthe operation o f internal controls over implementation
o f the contracts. This service i s not required for the financial management o f the contracts under this grant


                                                         59

but for the contracts resultingfrom the investmentphase (i.e., implementation), which is estimated to start in
the last quarter o f 2006.The services for this sub-component will be under one contract selected using
Quality andCost Based Selection (QCBS). The value o f this contract is estimatedat US$1.3 million.

Another sub-component i s also proposed to include an external audit o f the project financial statements
which i s usually carried by the country's Supreme Audit Board (BPK). However, in view of capacity
constraints at BPK, it i s requested the audit be contracted to reputable private sector firm acceptable to the
Bank. The related external audit cost will be includedinthis component and i s estimated at US$0.2 million.
This contract will be estimated to start in the first quarter o f 2007 and will be selected using least cost
selectionmethod.

Other activities: IPM will assist BRR in the supervision and contract management o f contracts under
components 2, 3 and 4. However, there may be a need to recruit some individual consultants to support
BRR in the management o f the IPM and Financial Management Contract. Selection of individual
consultants will follow Section V o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

An audit firm will also be recruited as an external auditor. Selection o f this auditor will follow least cost
selection method.

Ifthere isneedforanyfurtherassignmentsforfirmsatalaterphaseoftheproject,thenCQselectioncanbe
used for assignments estimated to cost less then US$200,000 while QCBS will be used for values above
us$200,000.

Special procurement provisions. Considering the urgent nature o f the project and in order to accelerate the
procurement process, the following special procurement provisions will be made:
  (1)       The assignments for Nias Infrastructure and Services Planning and Design and Construction
            Supervision which i s vital to commence the design and procurement o f themain reconstruction
            program will be selected through Selection Based on Consultant's Qualification (CQ) method on
            an exceptional basis. N o extension o f these contracts will be financed from the grant.
  (ii) Theperiodfor submissions ofexpressions ofinterest shallbe at least 14days fromdateof
            publication. The period for submission o f proposals by firms will be three weeks for the
            assignment selected under CQ, four weeks for assignment for West Coast Infrastructure and
            Services PlanningandDesign and six weeks for the other assignments.
  (iii) Selectionprocessforthefourmainassignmentswillbelaunchedpriortogranteffectivenessto
            expedite the process. The General Procurement Notice for the project and the Specific
            Procurement Notices for the assignments under components 1,2 & 3 was issued inthe first week
            o f April 2006. The assessment o f the firms who expressed interest and proposed short lists for
            assignments 1 and 2 has been submitted by BRR to the Bank for review and clearance. Any
            contract that may be signed prior to grant effectiveness will be financed from the grant on a
            retroactive basis subject to the following: (a) the payments are for items procured in accordance
            with applicable Bank procurement procedures; (b) such payments do not exceed 20 percent o f
            the grant amount; and (c) the payments were made by BRR not more than 12 months before the
            expected date o f grant agreement signing.

Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than U S D 400,000 equivalent per contract may
be composed entirely o f qualified national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o f
the Consultant Guidelines.

Assessment o f the agency's capacity to implement procurement. The BRR was established in May 2005,
and staffed with specialized and experienced personnel drawn from throughout Indonesia. The BRR has
ministerial status in Indonesia, and has undertaken a wide variety o f aspects inthe reconstruction program,


                                                       60

working closely with and coordinating the activities o f provincial and local governments, NGOs, bilaterals
and multilaterals. A special regulation o f the President (Kepress 70 o f year 2005) was issued on November
2005 amending the presidential decree (Kepress) 80/2003 on public procurement. This special regulation is
specific for procurement for funds managed by BRR. It allows for some flexibility, particularly in the
housing sector. BRR has carried out some procurement activities so far and mainly in the housing sector
usingdirect award. It provides the funds to local governments who cany out procurement. However, final
award o f contracts i s still subject to BRRapproval.

BRRhas expressed its concern on the timeliness andquality ofprocurement at the local government level,
particularly in certain cases where there has been suspicion o f collusion. BRR has indicated its decision to
centralize procurement where it will be conducted by BRR with the participation o f the concerned local
governments. BRR i s currently developing a structure for a new procurement unit and plans to staff it with
qualified personnel to carry' the procurement for funds provided by BRR. This plan can be supported
through a component o f the services that PM will provide to BRR. Although some BRR staff members
have some experience in World Bank procurement, the organization does not have a proven track record.
Consequently, carrying out the selection process for the four large contracts under this assignment, with the
complexities o f the tasks involved, and in particular technical evaluations and contract negotiations, may
prove challenging within the proposed expedited,schedule.

Beloware some key issues facing the project and mitigating measuresto addressthese risks:

IssueiRisk                                               Mitigating measure
L o w Capacity o f the procuring unit in the selection  A consulting fmwill be recruited as a procurement
process o fthese large contracts:                        advisor (PA) to BRR and to be fimded by DFID.The
The selection process for these contracts will require   P A will provide support to BRR in carrying out all
solid experience in Bank selection procedures,           activities required for the selection process o f the four
technical know how and a dedicated team to               main contracts. This will be an intensified effort o f a
successfully complete the required tasks within the      team o f three qualified experts to be carried over the
proposed time schedule. The size o f the contracts and   first six months o f the project. This will address the
the different expertise required from the consultants    required capacity and expedite the selection process.
will require focused work on all phases of the          A scope o fthis work has already been developed and
selection process Le., Short listing, preparation o f    provided to DFID by BRR. DFID is expected to
TORS& RFPs, evaluation andcontract negotiations.         process the award o f contract shortly.
                                                         The qualifications o f the team o f experts should be
                                                         acceptable to     the    Bank and meet minimum
                                                         requirements in terms o f knowledge o f Bank
                                                         selectionprocedures and subject matter.
Procurement Delays: Selection process o f consultants          1. The enhancing o f capacity by the P A will
i s usually lengthy in several projects in Indonesia due           help inexpediting the process.
to low capacity and required approvals o f the results        2.   The approval by the relevant authority will
o f the evaluation by the relative authority (ies). This           be expedited due to the fact that the
usually leads to problems in validity o f proposals,               structure in BRR i s not complex, the
availability o f staff, proposed prices, delay in the              evaluation committee(s) will be reporting
investment phase and more importantly opening the                  directly to the deputy director who is
process for potential intervention and manipulation.               managing this project.
                                                              3.   There is urgent need for these services and
                                                                   the leadership o f BRR i s highly committed
                                                                   to this project and the investment phase
                                                                   which is dependent on this.

Management o f large contracts also proposes a major     The I P M will act as technical advisor to the BRR in
challenge to BRR. It will require a skilled and          managing the three contracts for components 2, 3,
dedicated team to approve workplans, schedules,          and 4. BRR will appoint a small dedicated team to
deliverables, and invoices o f consultants. Delays or    manage contacts for the IPMand comonent 5.


                                                           61

?roblems at this level will pose a critical threat to the
?reject.

Relationships between multiple entities: Consultants      Clear working and reporting relationsbps should be
will work with local governments but at the same          provided to the consultants inthe TOR; BRR should
time will be reporting to BRR. There may be a             be solely responsible for accepting deliverables o f all
janger o f conflicting instructions to consultants and    consultants.
?ot&tial delay o f accepting consultants' deliverables.
Corruption and Collusive Practices: This i s a nation         (i) Duetothe sizeofthe contracts, there
wide    issue,   which     normally    involves     both      will be     full disclosure     o f advertisement
bidders/consultants and the government officials. The         opportunities   and    contract    awards.  Upon
general procurement environment i s weak, and the             completion o f a procurement process, the BRR is
practice o f offering and accepting bribes and                required   to   publicize    in public     domain
kickbacks i s widespread. The low salary structure of         information related to the summary of evaluation
government employees is also a contributing factor.           report, the name o f contractor/consultant (long
BRR is unique inthat it is an entity that is entrusted        list, shortlist, and the awardees whichever

with carrying a very important humanitarian task.             applicable), the description o f services, and the

There is the expectation that its staff act with the          amount o f contract.

highest integrity. BRR actions are under the scrutiny         (ii) BRR will publicize the complaint

of the    national    government,     local provinces,        handling database for the project and the result

communities and donors.                                       o f the performance o f consultants, as well as
                                                              sanctions                 on                 poor
                                                              performance/corrupt/fiaudulentpractices.

The salaries o f BRR staff are also higher then the           (iii) All       consultants    who     intend    to

average government staff. Finally, BRR has set its            participate in any o f the procurement packages

own anticorruption team. Therefore, due to the nature         under this project are required to disclose

o f BRR and the added scrutiny that the size o f these        information upfiont if any o f their members o f

contracts will attract, corruption risks are assessed to      board o f directors/commissionaires andor their

be lower then average projects.                               immediate family members are members o f the
                                                              respective    procurement     committee     andor
                                                              directors inBRR.
                                                              (iv)      All evaluation committee members will
                                                              sign an integrity pact and will disclose any
                                                              information if any o f their immediate family
                                                              members have any working relationship with the
                                                              firmssubmittingproposals.
                                                              (v)       At the very least, a sworn public notary
                                                              will be invited to officially witness the opening
                                                              o f technical and fmancial proposals, and certify
                                                              the Minutes o f Opening o f technicallfinancial
                                                              proposals. The public notary will also keep in a
                                                              safe place one copy o f the technical proposals
                                                              submitted by each consultant (once they are
                                                              opened), the whole copy o f the financial
                                                              proposals (before they are opened), and one copy
                                                              of the financial proposals submitted by each
                                                              consultant (once they are opened).


Although there is a limited number o f contracts under this project, andthat there will be enhanced measures
by BRR, including recruiting procurement advisors, the overall project risk for procurement is High.This
categorization i s mainly due to the size of these contracts, the fact that two large contracts are being selected
under CQS and due to the low capacity of the BRR as an organization in procurement according to Bank
procedures.




                                                            62

Procurement plan. A Procurement Plan for project implementation has been prepared which provides the
basis for the procurement methods and prior review requirements. This plan was agreed between the BRR
as the Executing Agency and the Bank at appraisal in June 2006, and will be available in the project file.
The plan will also be available in the Project's database and in the Bank's external website. The
Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the project team on an annual basis, or as required to
reflectthe actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutionalcapacity.

Frequency o f procurement supervision. Inaddition to the regular prior review supervision to be carried out
from Bank offices, annual supervision missions will visit the field to carry out post review of procurement
actions ifany further activities are added. At the time o f appraisal, the procurement plandidnot indicate any
contracts that are subject to post review.




                                                      63

C.      ProcurementArrangementDetails

The followingtable setsoutthe proposedprocurementarrangementsunder this project:


                                     Listof ConsultingAssignments


                                                             Prior
    Description            Procurement                                                    I               I
                                            Estimated        Review        Advertisement
                           Method           Amount
                                            (USD million)    byBank        Date            awarddate

    Infrastructure Project
    Management             QcBs             19.5             Yes           4-Apr-06
                                                                                          -r
    West Coast
    Infrastructure
    Planning, Design, and  QCBS              10.0            Yes           4-Apr-06        29-Jul-06
    Construction
    Supervision
    Nias Infrastructure
    Planning, Design, and                  1               1
    Construction           CQS              6.0              Yes           4-Apr-06        3- J ~ - 0 6
    Supervision
    Strategic                                                                             I
    Infrastructure Project
    Planning, Design, and   QcBs            5.o              Yes            15-Ju-06       11-Sep-06
    Supervision
    Financial
    Management of                          I                                              --t             1
    BRR-Financed           QCBS              1.2             Yes           15-Ju-06        15-Nov-06
    Projects
    ExternalAuditor        LCS              0.3              Yes           15-July-06      15-Dec -06

                           Total            42



        Consultancy services for firms estimated to cost above US$200,000 per contract and those which
        may be selected on a single source basis will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

        Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications will be used for assignments estimated to cost less
        then US$200,000, while Quality and Cost Based Selection will be used for assignments estimated
        to cost more then US$200,000. As an exception to the above, selection of consultants for the Nias
        Infrastructure Planning, Design, and Construction Supervision and the Strategic Infrastructure
        Project Planning, Design, and Supervision contracts may be through CQ.

   0    Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
        estimated to cost less than US$400,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f
        qualified national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
        Guidelines.




                                                     64

                 ANNEX8: FINANCIAL      MANAGEMENTAND DISBURSEMENT                   ARRANGEMENTS


 Overall, the project financial management risk i s assessed as being substantial. This assessment has
 concluded that with the implementation of the action plan, the risks will b e substantially mitigated, and the
 proposed financial management arrangements will satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements under
 OP/BP10.02 and are adequate to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the
 status of the grant required by the Bank. M o r e details of the financial management assessment are given
 below.

 A        RiskAssessment Summary

 1.       A detailed analysis of financial management risks arising from the country situation, the proposed
          project entities and specific project features and related internal controls has been completed during
          the assessment, and i s summarized below. These risks have been rated on a scale from High,
          Substantial, Moderate, and Low.


R i S k S                      Assessment                                            tigation Measures
[High/Substant@ /       .
Mbderate/Low]            ..      @    "
                            >




                                                 The government has a new budgetary systemthat has been
                                                 implemented since FY05. Implementation o f a new system created
                                                 delay onbudget execution. MOF and executing agency need to speed
                                                 upthe processto issue alldetailbudget documents andrelatedcircular
                                                 letters.
                                                 Public sector follows single entry and cash basis with a partially
reporting                                        computerizedsystem. An Accounting Standards Boardhas issued
                                                 accounting standards on a modified accrualbasis; these have been
                                                 adopted by Presidentialdecree. Implementation o f standards remains a
                                                 challenge.
3. Audit arrangements                            BPKhas a legalmandate as externalauditor o fthe government
                                                 budget. Overlapping assignment with internal auditor agencies exists.



                                                 BRRis a special agency establishedbyPEWU212005. A new
M                                                structure was established inOctober 2005, but the decision to appoint
                                                 director level and other staff has not been decided yet. Project
                                                 management capacity needs to be strengthened.
2. Accounting capacity,                          BRRfollowsthe governmentaccountingsystem. Accounting capacity
staffing                                         is adequate. Currently they have three staff inthe SPM unit and four
                                                 staffinthe Accounting Unit.All staff members have S1bachelor's
                                                 degrees inaccounting, and four o fthem are accountants. Due to the
                                                 sharplyincreasing transaction volume inFY06, BRR's FMcapacity
                                                 will be constrained, and itneeds to hire additional qualified staffinthe
                                                 SPM unit.
3. Internal controls                   H         The consultant outputs are diverse and not easily measurable. The
                                                 contracts are complex and large. Therefore, the risk of weak internal
                                                 control over payment may arise, unless the contracts are clearly
                              I                  worded and BRRhas strong project management.
4. Flow o f funds                      M         The flow o f funds will follow budget documents decision. Ituses the



                                                          65

                                           Go1Treasury system for on-budget and uses RANTFsystem for off-
                                           budget. Based on Go1regulation, except UP (petty cash) and small
                                           payments, payments above IDR5 millionuse bank transfers. B ahas
                                           two bank accounts for UP,andhas spent IDR600 millionthrough
                                           bothaccounts (less than 3% o f the total budget realization).
5. Internalaudit                   S       BRRestablishedaninternal audit department inearly 2006. Currently
                                           the internal audit department has 7 staff, includingthe Department
                                           Director. An internal audit manual and department working planhave
                                           beenprepared.
6. External audit                          BPKis externalauditor for BRRbudget. Currently BPK is conducting
                                           the first audit for BRR financial statement (FY05).Risksarise from
                                           integrity andlimited capacity o f the auditors.
7. Informationsystems;                     BRR uses a government system (SAI) to prepare the financial report.
Reporting and monitoring                   The first BRR report for FY05 was submitted to MOF on time. SA1
                                           raw data basically i s a payment order (SP2D) as budget realization. A
                                           chart o f account i s established during budget preparation. However,
                                           S A I i s not an integrated system and does not have a feature on
                                           contractkommitted budget. IBMhas provided technical assistance to
                                           develop additional features on contract commitments. As o f June 14,
                                           2006 the software has been completed and BRR started to trainproject
                                                                                                            -  -
                                           staffonhow to use the software.



                                           The flow o f funds system will follow the normal government
                                           mechanism for on-budget expenditures, and all payments will be made
                                           through GO1treasury.
                                           The project contracts will be on-budget. BRR needs to prepare the
                                           budget document and discuss it with MOFprior to negotiations.
                                           SA1 does not have a feature to report expenditures from foreign
                                           donors. BRR will prepare a separate project financial report and
                                           submit it to the Bank on quarterly basis. Project financial reports may
                                           be developed through excel sheets.
                                           T o find and select quality consulting firms will be a challenge. High
                                           quality consultants will assist BRR to monitor the consultants'
                                           performance.
                                           The Internal Audit department is new and untested, though a work
                                           plan i s ready and pending approval. The internal auditor will review
                                           and verify payment validation,          especially  for   payments o f
                                           reimbursable expenditures.
6. External audit                  S       BPK will assign an acceptable auditor to the Bank to audit the project

                               I           financial statement.
Overall project specific rjiskI    S             1     *  .
                                                    / .  *




B.        Budgeting

As a government agency, BRRfollows the normal annual government budget mechanism. The BRRBudget
Unitprepares and submits aproposedbudgetto MOFprior to DPR(Parliament) approval. The FY05budget
amounted to IDR 4.2 trillion, o f which IDR 185.5 billion was executed by BRR.Most o f the FY05 budget
has been channeled directly to line ministries and local government agencies (Dinas). BRR budget
realization for FY05 amounted to IDR 47.7 billion. To respond to the delay of budget documents and low
disbursement inFY05, the government has approved a carry over o funspent budget to April 2006.




                                                      66

BRRhas received budgetdocuments for FY06 amounting to IDR 13.2 trillion, o f which IDR 232.8 billion
has been executed by BRR. Budget amounting to IDR 12.9 trillion will be transferred to the budget
authority in implementing Dinas, which will work under BRR supervision and oversight. A Project
Management Unit (Satker) inDinas will be appointedby BRRthrough fit and proper test procedures.

As with other government projects, funds under this project need be put in the government budget and
follow existing government budgeting processes. However, given the urgent nature o f this project, and since
it is funded from grant sources, the budget allotment document (RKA-KL) could be in a
consolidatedsummarized format. Following this, the budget authorization document (DIPA) would also be
made ina consolidated format andbe prepared inparallel with budget realization, which will be under direct
payments procedures.

C.        Accounting andFinancialReporting

Accounting for grant transactions will be done using the government accounting software (SAI) that BRR
currently uses. BRR uses S A I for all sources o f funding, regardless if it i s on or off budget. These software
applications have standard accounting controls in place. However, the software does not have a feature on
contract management. Therefore, there i s a need to modify the software with the contract management and
inform the latest commitment o f the budget. IBMhas providedtechnical assistance to develop additional features
on contract commitments. As o f June 14,2006 the software has been completed and BRR started to train project staff
on how to use the software. Accounting standards to be adopted will be according to government accounting
standards. The Chart o f Accounts o fthe S A I i s not flexible to allow reportingby components / categories to
serve the reportingneeds o f the Bank.

S A I does not have a feature to present foreign financed expenditures. The system does not separately track
the use of fund from donors. Expenditures from all sources are treated and accounted for as government-
owned budget. To have better project information, grant expenditures and activities will be reported to the
Bankunder InterimUnauditedFinancial statements on a quarterly basis. The Financial Statements may be
prepared usingseparate stand-alone spreadsheets. This would include informationonprocurement progress,
physical progress o f budgeted activities and financial source and use of funds. Formats for these would be
agreed before negotiations. Quarterly Financial Statements should be received by the Bankno later than 30
days after each quarter ends. To ensure consistency o f the Interim Financial Statenients with Go1reporting,
the aggregates in the Financial Statements will be reconciled periodicallywith the aggregates in the S A I for
Grant transactions.

All financial transactions should berecordedandproperly supported by adequate evidence that the recipient
i s as intended according to the Grant objectives; the audited annual financial statements should also be made
publicly available to ensure transparency.

D.        Internal Controls andInternalAudit

BRR established an internal audit department in early 2006. Currently the internal audit department has 7
staff including the Department Director. An internal audit manual and department working planhave been
prepared. The internal audit department will be responsible to supervise all satker (Dinas) that implement
BRRbudget. The internal audit unitplans to recruitmore staffinthe near future.

The internal auditor should conduct a review on internal control systems within BRR and implementing
Dinas. The terms o f reference for this review should be expanded to include the procurement and
expenditure under the project. Copies o f the audit reports will be made available to the Bank.




                                                         67

Payment validation can present internal control risks, especially for payment for reimbursable expenditures
to the consultants. To mitigate these risks, the detail o f expenditures that are reimbursable shall be clearly
specified inthe contract andvalidation procedures will be agreed with BRRmanagement.

E.       ExternalAudit

BRRwill prepare special purposes projectfinancial statements annually inspecified formats. Thereport will
be based on a summary o f financial transactions under this grant. The project financial statements will be
subject to a financial audit by Supreme Audit Institution (BPK), which will sub-contract this work to a
reputable auditor acceptable to the Bank.A copy o f the project audited financial statements, along with the
management letters issued by the auditors, if any, will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after the end o f fiscal year.

The Terms o f Reference (TOR) for the project audit will be agreed by the Bank with the Recipient before
negotiations. The audit report will include an opinion on the reliability o f the project financial statements.
The audit reports will be made accessible to the public.

F.       DisbursementArrangements

Eligible expenditures under this project are limited to payments against five consultancy firms' contracts,
which will be under direct payment procedures. After review and verifications o f consultants' invoices and
their supporting documents, BRR will prepare a withdrawal application form. The withdrawal application,
along with the invoices and supporting documents, will be submitted to the Bank after having been signed
by the authorized signatory(-ies). The Bank will then transfer the payments directly to the consultants' bank
account.

The appropriate BRR officials will review and verify the consultants' invoices following the normal Go1
procedures acceptable to the Bank. All original documents in support o f such payments will be retained as
accounting evidence for audit purposes.

As requiredunder government procedures to have expenditures under the Grant be recorded inthe APBN,
based on payment advise from the Bank, BRR will issues payment-orders (SPM ex-post) and the MOF
treasury office (KPPN) will issue payment vouchers (SP2D ex-post) which consolidate all payments made
inthe year.

G.       Remedies

If ineligible expenditures are found to have been made Erom the project activities, or if expenditures are
made without adequate supporting documentation to validate these, the Recipient will be obligated to rehnd
the same amount to the Bank. The Bank will have the right to suspend disbursement o f the funds if
significant terms o f the Grant agreements, including reporting requirements, are not complied with. This
will be reflectedinthe Grantagreement.

H.       SupervisionPlan

Supervision o f project financial management will be performed on a risk-based approach at least once a
year. The supervision will review the project's financial management system, including but not limited to
accounting, reporting, and internal controls. The financial management supervision will be conducted by a
financial management specialist andBank consultants.




                                                      68

I. ActionPlanandConditionalities

Actions to be followed up on during implementation (to be reflected as Other Covenants inthe Grant
Agreement):
        External auditor arrangement between BPK and the acceptable auditor to be completedno later than
        6 months after signing o f the Grant Agreement. The project audit should be submitted to the Bank
        not later than six months after end o f each financial year.




                                                       69

                    ANNEX9:ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL SAFEGUARDSFRAMEWORK
                                                  AND



A.        Introduction

T h i s project supports the Aceh and Nias Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency's (BRR) strategy for
district and province infrastructure reconstruction by providing world class consulting services in
infrastructure programmanagement, planning, design, and construction management. Although traditionally
TA projects have been regarded by the World Bank as low impact, this particular project will involve
detailed engineering design and construction supervision for approximately US$300-400 million inproject
financing to be provided through an Infrastructure Funding Facility (to be established). On this basis, a
more robust approach to social and environmental safeguards than would normally be expected for pure TA
i sjustified.

B.        Objectives o f the Framework

The environmental and social safeguards framework provides general policies and guidelines to serve the
following objectives:

          Protect humanhealth;
          Prevent environmental degradation as a result o f either individual investments or their cumulative
          effects;
          Enhance positive environmental outcomes;
      0   Avoid or minimize land acquisition and involuntary resettlement, and where this can not be
          avoided, provide compensation at replacement value and assistance to rehabilitate livelihoodsbased
          on consultation with those affected;
          Avoid conflict among community members and strengthen the community's social cohesiveness;

Mechanisms for implementation o f the framework are built into the project oversight structures, guidelines
and tools, as well as the terms o freference for the proposed InfrastructureProgamManagement (IPM)team,
and associated geographically focused teams (West Coast, Nias and Province level).             It will be the
responsibility o f the IPM team to support the BRR in developing detailed social and environmental
management procedures for this framework, to be integrated into the Project Manual. The safeguard policies
triggered include OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement and OP 4.10
on Indigenous Peoples.

                                              Safeguard Policies

       Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                     Yes              N o
       Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                        [XI              [I
       NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                    [I               [XI
       Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       [I               [XI
       Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)          [I               [XI
       InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                            [XI              [I
       Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10)                                    [XI              [I
       Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                            [I               [XI
       Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                    [I               [XI
       Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                        [I               [XI
       Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)             [I               [XI




                                                       70

C.       Environmentaland Social Issues

Environmental Issues. Although the project entails the procurement o f `services' to support infrastructure
reconstruction, it will have the effect o f programming very significant levels o f financing both from the
BRR's own budget and additional financing made available through the Multi Donor Fund for Aceh and
Nias. Consequently, the consultant teams that will be engaged under the project will need to have a good
understanding o f related environmental and social impacts and how such impacts can mitigated via
appropriate planning, design, and implementation measures.

Assessment o f the impacts o f infrastructure reconstruction first needs to be set within the context o f existing
environmental conditions, particularly along the West Coast and in Nias. It i s important to understand, for
example, that reconstruction will be impacting on already stressed environmental conditions. Many coastal
areas have been severely damaged by the tsunami both interms o f marine and terrestrial environments. In
manyplaces coastlines have been physically altered, particularly the inter-tidal zones. Shallow coral reefs
have been affected resulting from the large amounts o f solid waste, silts and clays generated by the waves.
Mudladen residues have infiltrated both man made andnatural water sources, and blocked drainage lines.
Many o f the heavy clay soils that predominate inthe coastal region have been inundated with salt water. In
Nias large tracts o f coastal land have been lifted up and an estimated 250 ha o f coral reefs are reported to
have been destroyed. With the loss of sea defenses, previously built up areas have been reclaimed by the
tides leading to coastal inundation and the recreation o fmarshy areasjuxtaposed with human settlement.

Furthermore it should be recognized that existing conditions are being further impacted by the
reconstruction process that has been underway since early 2005 - now increasing in scope and intensity.As
indicated in the initial drafts o f on-going SEA work carried out by Bappenas, existing critical pressure
points include:

         impacts o f housing construction through extraction o f raw materials including wood, sand, coral
         and clay, leading to multiple effects on surface water features, coastal geomorphology, protected
         areas and watershed protectionareas;
         impacts of housingconstruction overwhelmingthe capacity o f water and sanitation services to keep
         upwith demand;
         spill over waste fiom existing dump sites and establishment o fnew sites without due consideration
         o f externalities;
         relaxation o f environmental controls and building standards associated with road construction,
         leadingto ponding, landslides and other localized construction type impacts;
         urgent needs o f livelihoodrecovery leading to overexploitation for sea and pond-based aquaculture;
         illegal logging achieving social legitimacy in the interests o f rapid reconstruction, while actually
         targeting markets outside o fAceh;
         social conflict over land expropriation (housing, road reconstruction, mangrove reforestation) with
         insufficientcompensation and due process.

Consequently this TA, along with the impacts resulting from reconstruction that will ensue, takes its place
among many other efforts underway all o f which will leave their mark on the natural systems that must also
sustain the future economic growth o fthe region.

Social Issues. Ingeneral the infrastructure projects that will be designed andimplemented with support from
thisTA will entail replacemento fpre-existing infrastructure. As a result, the levelo fassociated social risks
i s likely to be limited. However, it is important for planning processes, including prioritization of




                                                       71

infrastructure needs, to reflect community needs and specifically those o f vulnerable groups (such as women
and the poorest insociety).

In some cases land acquisition and resettlement will be unavoidable leading to a range of challenges
associated with clarifying land titles and ensuring that adequate and timely compensation i s provided.
Thousands o f people still remain missing after the tsunami while others still live in the campsibarracks or
have moved to other regions. Although most intend to return to their holdings, the timing varies. Therefore
inmany cases landowners are not available to discuss land acquisition issues leading to project delays or
later conflicts duringproject implementation relatingto disputed landclaims.

A further challenge is in dealing with the tenure rights defined under the customary and traditional codes,
particularly inNias which i s dominated by traditional tenure systems. For example traditional codes do not
clearly define rights for women to inherit land, and a challenge may be how to ensure that female heads of
households retainrights to receive compensation that i s due.

Ensuringthat infrastructure reconstruction addresses the particular needs o f women remains a critical issue
for consideration under this TA. Women were the most directly affected group by the tsunami and
earthquake, while at the same time having critical roles to play both inthe immediate challenges o fphysical
reconstruction and in ensuring sustainable and equitable social and economic recovery in the longer term.
Strategic planning work undertaken under this TA will need to ensure that the specific concerns o f women
inrelationto infrastructure reconstructionare taken account of, while at the sub-project level relatedpublic
consultation will need to ensure that women are given a strong voice in choices to be made over siting and
design, as well as the relative prioritization o f sub-projects to be funded under each district management
plan. For example, under certain circumstances, water supply and sanitation may be considered to be a
greater priority thanroadrehabilitation.

Although the people o f Aceh are a broadly homogeneous group, there are indigenous people living inNias
requiring specific measures to be undertaken by the project to ensure that they are meaningfully engaged in
consultation processes associated with the planning, design and construction o fproposed infrastructure.

D.       Environmental and SocialManagement Framework

Screening. The Government o f Indonesia's environmental review procedures, which include specific
procedures for Aceh and Nias16, are broadly consistent with those o f the World Bank, and will form the
framework for the project's approach to environmental screening and mitigation. The project i s considered
to be equivalent to World Bank "Category B", recognizing that it i s providing consulting services only and
the funding for implementation work will be provided from a separate source - the Local Infrastructure
ReconstructionFa~ility'~.

Subprojects being prepared, designed and implemented with consulting services under this TA will be
screened on an individual basis and classified as follows:


     --
     -   fullenvironmental assessment (AMDAL)required;
         environmental management and monitoringplan(UKL/UPL)required;
         LandAcquisition and ResettlementAction Plan(LARAP)required;


 l6
  Ministryo fEnvironment DecreeNo. 308/2005 onImplementationofEnvironmentalImpactAssessment,
Environmental Management Measures and Environmental Controlling Measures for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Activities o fNanggroe Aceh DarussalamandNias Islands o fNorth Sumatra.
17This facility is likely to be supported with MDF fimding and will likely be World Bank "Category A," requiring full
environmental assessment.


                                                         72

     -   standard operating procedures (SOP) only.

All new projects (being either partly or wholly fundedby MDF)will be requiredto complete a standardized
screening form providing basic information, according to infrastructure sub-sector (roads, irrigation,
drainage, coastal defenses, etc.)''. Table 1 provides screening criteria for infrastructure projects (generally
for new alignmentsfland take) that will require fill environmental assessment, drawn from Decree
30812005. The table provides a selection o f criteria only. Inapplying the framework the relevant annex to
the Decree should be referred to directly. The criteria represent 'maximum' thresholds only (for example
2000 ha for a new irrigated area). Full AMDALEAScan be required for sub-projects even if they are
within the maximum thresholds based on a technical discussion between the PM team and local
environmental authorities (for example a new irrigated area o f 500 ha). The WBOJ safeguards staff will
review screening decisions for all projects and may require additional fill AMDALsEAs to be carried out
as appropriate.




 Harbor construction with one o f the following facility
   a. --  Massive constructionjetty
          Length                                                                     2200 m
          Or area                                                                    sooo      m2

  b. Harbor Infrastructure support (terminal, storage, container, etc.)
     - area                                                                        I
                                                                                     25 ha
 Dredging :
   Capital dredging
     - Volume                                                                        2250.000 m3
 Reclamation
      --  Area                                                                       225 ha
          Orvolume                                                                   ~ ~ O O . O Om3
                                                                                                  O

                                                                                   I
 Infiastructure inthe Region

 Irrigation area
 a. New construction area                                                            22.000 ha

 b.Intensifylngbyadding area                                                         21.OOO ha

 Swampy area development, marsh landreclamation for irrigation needs                 21.OOO ha

 a. Highway construction                                                            All units

 b.Flyover and subway roadconstruction                                               Xlan

 Road construction andor improvementby widening out side of
      a.  Big city/metropolis
      b. Length
      c.  Or area                                                                    2 5 h
                                                                                     25 ha
      b. Middle city
      d. Length

18GTZis inprocessofpreparing standardscreeningformats for discussion withProvince Bapedalda. The project will
review these formats as abasis for preparing appropriate internal screeningprocedures.


                                                          73

      e.   Or area
                                                                               210 km
     -c. Length
           Village                                                             210 ha
              -
                                                                               215 km
 Trash handling
 a. Trash handlingby control
    sanitary landfill systems
      f. Area                                                                  210 ha
      g.   Or total capacity                                                   210.000 ton
 b. Last trash Discarding
    Location (TPA) at tide
    area
      h. landfillarea                                                          2 5 ha
      i. Ortotalcapacity                                                       25.000 ton
 c. Transfer station
    construction
      j. Capacity                                                              21000tonlday
 d. Opendumping Last Trash
    Discarding systems
     -   Area or total capacity                                                All units

Requirement for an AMDAWfull EA may also be triggered if a project i s likely to impact on sensitive sites
either by being located in close proximity to a sensitive site, or if the nature o f the project activity could
directly impact on a sensitive site,      Key sites or areas that will be considered `sensitive' under this
framework include:

               1. Nationalpark
               2. Forestpark
               3. Wildlife reserve
               4. Protectedflora area
               5, Conservation forest
               6. Watershed protection forest
               7. National cultural preserve
               8. Traditionalh-eligious buildings
               9. Marine reserves
               10. Coastline and dune systems
               11. Mangrove and wetland areas
               12. IsolatedVulnerable People (IVP)
               13. Steep slopes (>40%)
               14. Commercialhesidential areas
               15. Productive land
               16. Other areas as identifiedbyBRRduringthe course o f implementation.

Under Decree 308/2005 there are no criteria inplace for determining whether a UKL/UPLinrequired. The
general approach i s that for all but very low impact projects a UKL/UPLi s required. A clear procedure for
determining the need for UKLruPLwill be negotiated with Provincial Bapedalda duringthe early stages o f
the project. All projects, irrespective o f whether an EA i s required or not, will apply standard operating
procedures for environmental management covering basic (commonly occurring) construction and operation
type impacts.

Screening process. The project will provide consulting services to seven districts along the West Coast of
Aceh, two districts in Nias and to the Province o f Aceh. Consulting support teams located in these areas


                                                      74

will help local governments prepare annual infrastructure investment plans (APs) containing lists of sub-
projects, each having completed technical and economic feasibility studies. AIPs will be submitted to the
BRR/IPMteam for review/`best fit' inrelationto the BRRoverall strategy for infrastructurereconshction.

Sub-projects which are considered to fit with the objectives o f the overall strategy will be identified by the
PMteam and communicated to the respective local government. Environmental and social screening of
`approved' sub-projects will be carried out at this point in order to determine if a LARAP, or EA/AMDAL
i s required. Screening will be based on completion inadvance by local governments o f a standard screening
format for each sub-project, to be developed by the IPMteam based on KepMen 308/2005. The BRR will
be responsible for developing templates and guidelines on how local and provincial governments must
present their Annual InvestmentPlans (including sub-project details), to include safeguards information.

Based on this information, the BWPMteam will screen each sub-project to be partly or wholly funded by
MDF, involving: (i)  comparison o fproject information against Annex 1o f Decree 308/2005, (ii)     assessment
of likelihood o f impact on sensitive sites, (iii)
                                                comparison against World Bank criteria for LARAP. Further
information will be requested o f the respective local government, as necessary, in order to complete
screening. A representative from the relevant local environmental authority will be invited participate inthe
screening process. Screening results will be formally communicated to the respective local governments, to
relevant local environmental authority and to WBOJ safeguards staff.

Environmental and social studies. The IPM will be responsible for engaging additional and specialist
consulting support to prepare all required social and environmental studies (AMDAL, UKL/UPL, and
LARAP). The IPMteam will award an annualrenewable contract to a firm(s) with aproventrack recordin
carrying environmental and social assessments to GO1 and World Bank standards. While such firms are
most likely to be found in Java, they will be encouraged to establish partnerships with local organizations
(NGOs andacademic institutions) to carry out field research functions.

Itis expected that approximately 10-15%o fa total o fapproximately 80 sub-projects preparedunder thisTA
will require AMDAL and/or LARAP,and that a further 40-50% will require UKL/UPL and/or abbreviated
LARAP. The resultingcost estimation is presented inTable 2, requiring approximately US$1.O million to
cover costs o fthe studies (not including costs o f compensation). Should this figure prove to be insufficient,
additional resources for studies will be made available as part o f the financing to be provided under the
proposed Local InfrastructureReconstruction Facility.




The procedures for preparation and completion o f AMDALs and UKL/UPLs are set out under Ministerial
Decree 308/2005. For AMDALs, a Province or local government `Tim Teknis' prepares and approves the
AMDAL TORS,consultants carry out the studies and final review and approval is carried out by a Province
Level AMDAL Commission. Given acknowledged lack o f capacity within local environmental authorities
to undertake this workload, the IPM will submit draft TORSto the Tim Teknis for approval. This
arrangement will be negotiated and agreed with local environmental authorities inadvance.

A basic format for completion of UKL/UPLs is provided in Annex 2 to Decree 308/2005. Completed
UKL/UPLforms are submitted to the local environmental authority for review andapproval. Where land



                                                      75

acquisition andcompensation i s required, the World Bank's standard approachto the preparation of LARAP
will be applied, as further detailed inSectionDbelow.

Review and approval of studies. Completed environmental and social studies will be reviewed by
safeguards specialists within the geographically located consultant teams (West Coast, Nias, Provincial)
prior to submission to the B W M team for secondary review and comments. The BRR/IPMteam will
provide consolidatedcomments to the consultant for revisions to be made as necessary.

Environmental studies (AMDALLJKL) will be submitted for formal approval to the relevant local
environmental authority.     During the first year o f implementation o f this TA, this is likely to be the
Provincial Bapedalda. With time, the review and approval function will be transferred to local governments
in line with existing practices elsewhere in Indonesia, with the exception of province level infrastructure
which will continue to be reviewed and approved at the provincial level. The standard practice at present i s
for local environmental authorities to provide approval/and or comments within 14 days. However, this
remains an informal arrangement which will be negotiated between Province Bapedalda and the IPMteam
duringthe initial stages o f the project. A sample o f AMDAL and UKLwill be submitted to the WBOJ for
review and approval, at least one for each participating local government. Procedures for the review o f
LARAPs and other related social studies are set out in Section D. The Bank applies a standard five
working-day turn around time for review o fLARAPS.

Review and final approval o f all required environmental and social studies will be a precondition for
completion o f detailed design, which will have to demonstrate how social and environmental mitigation has
been handled, and when required, integrated into detailed project designs. The B W Mteam will review
and sign off on all completed Detailed Designs and Tender Documents, including further safeguards review
to ensure key impacts identified have been adequately addressed. This could include one or a mix o f the
following: structural measures to be incorporated into detailed engineering design; non-structural measures
to be listed in specific conditions o f contract; and Standard Operating Procedures for social and impact
management integrated into biddocuments andcontracts.

LandAcquisitionandResettlementandIndigenousPeoplePolicyFramework

(a)      Principles

Although the project i s not directly involved in physical reconstruction, activities associated with project
preparation and design will trigger OP/BP 4.12 on involuntary resettlement. Furthermore the existence of
indigenous minorities in Nias will trigger OP 4.10 for this area. This Framework provides general
guidelines inrelation to application o f these policies. The following provides overriding principles o f how
land issues will be dealt with:


0    Maximizing community consultation as a mechanism to clarify land tenure, resolve conflicts and
minimize resettlement. The process o f reconstruction will apply transparent and participatory procedures to
ensure that all eligible and affected persons agree on any option that involves land acquisition and
resettlement. Inmost areas covered by this TA, there are community-driven development mechanisms (for
example KDP, UPP structures) inplace which will provide valuable inputs into project planning, design and
consultation. Specifically public consultation will be carried out at the following three points during the
preparation andimplementationo f infrastructure sub-projects:
             o during the planningphase of the proposed investments, as a means of minimizing impacts
                 andinformingpeople o ftheir compensationentitlements and options, as well as a grievance
                 redressal mechanism;
             o following the census o f affectedpeople and inventory o fassets lost inorder to get feedback
                 on preferences regarding compensationoptions;


                                                       76

             o during implementation o f the sub-project to assess whether adequate compensation has
                   beenprovided.

Consultation will be carried out within the context o f applicable Bank and Go1standards, such as the Basic
Agrarian Law which provides for equal rights between men and women inrelation to landtenure.

     Sensitivity to the local culture and the traditional regulations where appropriate. Land acquisition and
resettlement will take into account relevant local or traditional regulationdlaws where appropriate, and this
will be reflected during the community consultation processes associated with development of LG annual
plans. Where traditional laws and the Bank's policies or Go1laws conflict (for example on the rights o f
women inrelation to land tenure), these will be highlighted during consultations and every effort made to
resolve such conflicts through traditional decision making structures.

    Minimizing adverse impacts on assets. The BRR will ensure that no real decline in income will take
place because o f displacement and that all project affected persons will be compensated for their loses at
market value or replacement cost, as well as provided with rehabilitation measures to assist them to
improve, or at least maintaintheir pre-disaster living standards andincome earning capacity.

@)       LandAcquisitionandResettlement

At the appraisal stage of the Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program, it is not possible to identify
the intensity o f the potential social issues and impacts that may arise as a result o f the TA provided. Nor can
the project assess the land acquisition and resettlementneeded until specific sub-projects are put forward for
financing.  However, in case the need for land acquisition or for involuntary resettlement does occur, the
following provisions will apply:

    The local government that needs to acquire land for public good purposes will negotiate with the private
     landowners, as well as other categories o f project affected people (renters, share croppers, squatters).
    The agreement on the type and level o f compensation i s made through a participatory and transparent
    process to be further detailed inthe Project Manual, based on existing practices under other World Bank
    projects.
    Agreement between the local government and project affected people will be set out in the LARAP,
    with clear land plots demarcation, an inventory o f the type/quantity o f assets to be acquired and the
     corresponding type and amount o f compensation (both ifit i s incash or kind, e.g. replacement land), the
     timingo fpayment, andthe fundingsources for the compensation.
     Compensation will be paid by local government for land acquired and assetdincome lost as a direct
    result o freconstruction activities.
     Compensation for land and assetdincome will be provided at their replacement or market cost. Existing
    World Bank practice in Indonesia is to refer to databases held by local commercial banks in assessing
    replacement and market costs, rather than to use independent assessors.
    The process o f consultation associated with land acquisition and compensation will ensure that widows
     and other marginalizedvulnerablegroups receive equal treatment, and it will be the responsibilityo f the
     geographically located social safeguards staff to ensure that this i s the case. The IPM and WBOJ
     safeguards staffwill also review all LARAPswith this issue inmind.
    Where voluntary contributiono f land or other assets is indicated, either inthe new site or inthe existing
     site where the reconstruction works will be located, there will be documentation o f proof o f ownership
     and a clear agreement between the contributors andthe recipients, includingthe names, landplots with
    clear demarcation, and the details o f the terns o f the contributions. The usage o f the contributed land
    will be definedthroughcommunity consultation andbe made transparent to the community.




                                                        77

     If the local government acquires land from private landowners through cash compensation or other
     compensation scheme, it will be paidprovided prior to the implementationo fworks.
     Local Governments are requiredto demonstrate that sufficient finds have been allocated intheir DIPAs
     to cover costs o f compensation before any proposed investments can be considered for funding. The
     effect o fthis requirement may be that sub-projects for which financial compensation i s necessary cannot
     be preparedand financed withinthe samebudget year.
     Other means o f obtaining land, which would not trigger OP 4.12 but for which documentation would
     still be required to be reviewed by the project, include willing-seller-willing-buyer situations, donation
     of community land and use o f vacant government land.

Any reconstruction activities involving involuntary resettlement or land acquisition o f more than 25
households or 200 persons (or about 40 private landowners) will only be approved after preparation by the
IPMteamofafullLandAcquisition andResettlement Action Plan(LARAP)acceptable to the WorldBank.
Several issues are likely to increase the complexity o f land acquisition - the availability o f reliable land
records, the inability o f people to document ownership, the demise o f occupants and subsequent uncertainty
about transfers o f title.

LARAPSwill spell out measures to implement the principles o f compensation and livelihoodrestoration for
any Project Affected Person (PAP). This includes any person who, on account o f the execution o f a sub-
project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by the involuntary
taking o f land resulting in: (i)  relocationor loss o f shelter; (ii) o f assets or access to assets; or (iii)
                                                                    loss                                         loss
o f income sources or means o f livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location,
resulting inadverse impacts on the livelihood o f such person. The format o f the fillLARAPwill contain:

          description o f proposed sub-project activities that require land (together will alternative means used
          to acquire this land);
          a census o fpersons affecteddisplaced by involuntary land acquisition including an inventory o f lost
          assets;
          valuation o f landto be acquired and lost assets
          detailed description o fthe compensation andother resettlement assistance to be provided;
          description o f consultations held with persons affected about alternatives for compensation and
          other related assistance;
          institutional responsibilities for implementation andprocedures for grievanceredressal;
          arrangements for monitoring and implementation;
          time schedule for the implementation andbudget;
          clear written agreement between the government and project affected people on extent, type and
          timingo fcompensationto beprovided.

Any reconstruction activities involving involuntary resettlement or land acquisition o f less than 25
households/200 people (or about 40 private landowners) will only be approved after preparation by the IPM
team o f an abbreviated LARAP acceptable to the World Banklg. The abbreviated LARAP contains the
same essential informationas a fillLARAPbutrequires a less detailed survey o fproject affected people.

Consultants engaged by the IPMteam will carry out the LARAPs on behalfo frespective local governments
who will be responsible for mediating consultations on land acquisition and compensation, supported by
safeguards specialists located within the geographically located consultant teams. The conclusions and



19Based on an initial review o f 3-5 abbreviated L A W S ,the WBOJ may decide to transfer authority for review and
approval to the IPMteam.


                                                          78

implications o f LARAPs must be agreed with respective LGs in advance o f submission to the IPM and
World Bank Office (Jakarta) for review and approval.

(c)      IndigenousPeoples'Framework

Inview of the existence of distinct indigenous communities in Nias, an Indigenous Peoples' Planning
framework i s required, based on World Bank Operational Policy 4.10 - as further elaborated in h e x 9a.
The basic approach to be taken will entail ensuring that the views o f Nias based indigenous people are
meaningfilly reflected in the preparation and implementation o f reconstruction projects in their areas. This
will require consultation measures to be tailored to their specific socio-cultural setting, involving
identification and use o f appropriate means o f communication and use o f vernacular language. Complaints
and grievance procedures will need to be adapted to ensure that affected people are able to effectively
exercise their rights. During the initial stages o f TA implementation, a workshop will be held in Gunung
Sitoli to discuss infrastructure reconstruction needs and implicationsfor localNGOs, indigenous leaders and
representatives from the local museum o f ethnography. A repeated annual workshop will be held thereafter
as a basis for identifying andresponding to concerns.

Environmental orientation study and overall strategic infrastructure planning.One o f the main objectives o f
the TA i s to provide strategic level advice to the BRR on infrastructure planning, focused on immediate
reconstruction needs but set within the context o f a 5-10 year development horizon. Inproviding strategic
planningadvice, the IPMteam will be structured according to the existing BRRdivisions of: transportation,
water and waste, sea defenses and drainage, and spatial planning.          The IPM team will review and
consolidate existing plans, identify gaps and introduce additional variables as necessary to ensure that
infrastructure planning in Aceh and Nias i s founded on principles o f sustainable development and social
inclusion. This will require a significant input from social and environmental advisers to be includedinthe
IPMteam.

Accordingly, one o f the initial tasks o f the IPMteam will be to cany out an environmental orientation study
based on a pressure/state/response methodology, to determine how infrastructure planning can best take
account o f key environmental challenges. The paper will identify and characterize key environmental
impacts o freconstruction along the West Coast and inNias, provide generic guidance on suitable mitigation
measures and identify how existing environmental guidelines and standards should be revised or added to
under IREP. The paper will draw on existing Strategic Environmental Assessment work that has been
underway in Aceh and Nias since mid 2005. It will be drafted in a `policy brief' style o f no more than 12
pages andwill be translated into Bahasa Indonesian.

The paper will be used as a basis for consultations both within BRR and participating LGs in order to
identify key implications for infrastructure planningin terms of: general direction, prioritization, suitability
o f different types o f investments, institutional organization for environmental management, capacity
buildingneeds, and resourcing. This process will be completed withinthe first 6 months o fthe TA feeding
into the broader work o f the IPMteam on strategic infrastructureplanning.
Standards, guidelines and codes of practice. Implementation o f this framework is dependent upon the
establishment not only o f clear procedures o f social and environmental review, but also clear guidance and
standards o f performance. Some o f this material i s already available from Go1 sources and can be readily
adapted, while inother areas there are gaps. Table 3 summarizes the existing status o f some o f the guidance
and standards o f environmental and social review that will be required. The IPM team i s responsible for
establishing systems and procedures for effective implementation o f this framework, to be integrated into
the project operational manual.




                                                       79

                Table3: Requiredproject )cumentationprovidingguidelinesand standards
                                              1
      Guidancelstandards needed                 status                 Required actions
      Standardised screening formats (for 3-    Currently being        IPMteamto immediately review status
      4 key infrastructure sub-sectors)         preparedby GTZ on      o f the preparationo f these screening
                                                behalfo fProvince      formats and incorporate as appropriate
                                                Bapedalda              into the Project ImplementationManual
      Screening criteria for       sub-projects Available   (KepMen    None
      requiring AMDAL                           30812005)
      Screening criteria for       sub-projects Not available, but     IPMto maintainclose contact with
      requiring LJKLIUPL                        maybe developed        ProvincialBapedaldato monitor
                                                during course o fthe   progress
                                                TA
      Standard format for completion o f        Available (KepMen     INone
      uKL/uPLs                                  308/2005)
      SOPs for environmental management         Available for road   I IPMteamto compile additionalSOPs
      o f infrastructure sub-projects           projects only          covering other infrastructure sub-
                                                                       sectors.

      Standardtender documents for              Available              IPMteamto integrate SOPsfor
      infrastructure sub-projects                                      environmental management into
                                                                       standard tender documents
      Field-based environmental monitoring      Not available          IPMteamto develop, tailoredto
      protocols for infrastructure sub-                                infrastructure sub-sectors. More detail
      projects                                                         required for monitoring o f AMDALs
                                                                       andUKLIUPL,as opposed to SOPs.
      Format for 3 and 6 month reporting on     Not available          IPMteamto developtabular format
      environmental monitoring results                                 indicating frequency o f monitoring
                                                                       events, problems identifiedand
                                                                       corrective actions taken
      Other                                                            To be defined as necessary by the IPM
                                                                       team, inconsultation with WBOJ.

E.        ConsultationandDisclosure

This environmental and safeguards framework has been discussed with BRR, MPW and other relevant
authorities at the provincial and local government levels. The Go1will disclose this framework inAceh and
Nias. The IDA will ensure that the framework i s published inInfoshop and the IDA IndonesiaPublic
InformationCenter. The framework will be available also on the E-Aceh website (http://m,e-aceh.orq).
All LARAPSand full environmental assessments(AMDAL)will be made available inIndonesianlanguage
on the e-aceh website, with Englishlanguage versions published inInfoshop.

The preparation o f Local government Annual Investment Plans for infrastructure will be carried out in a
participatory and transparent manner. All projects involving significant levels o f re-design above and
beyond simple replacement o f infrastructure will be supportedby community consultations to take account
o f project-affected people. The principles mechanisms for ensuring an appropriate level o f community
consultation are embedded inGo1procedures for AMDAL and World Bankrequirements for LARAP.

For example, the processes o f acquiring land by the local government will involve consultation with all
landowners (private and public), facilitated by the geographically based consultant support teams. The
resulting agreements including maps o f the land plots and owners will be disclosed to the public by local
Dinas PU. The consultation process and the results agreed by the community members will be made
available to the public throughwebsites, meetings, newsletter, public postings, and other means.



                                                          80

In relation to AMDAL, local environmental organizations and representatives of community groups
participate in the formal process of AMDAL review through locally established AMDAL Commissions.
Formal review is carried out at the TORstage and at Draft Final report stage. The Project will ensure that
AMDAL commission meetings have the required local community representation and will provide
facilitatiodcoordination to this effect, including necessary briefings in advance so that local community
representation at such meetings i s meaningful.

F.        Mechanisms for Complaints and Grievance Redressal

Each member o f the community has the right to file complaints should there be any concerns that remain
unsolved during community consultations. Complaints can be conveyed inthe form o f written documents,
inperson, through e-mail, media, etc. Complaints can be addressed to the office of the Bupatiand/or Dinas
PU.    In consultation with Dinas PU, the geographically based consultant teams will respond to the
complaints within a specific period o f time. Unresolved complaints at the city/district level will be brought
to the existing Complaints HandlingUnit at the BRR. All complaints and responses will be documented at
the respective LG and/or province level specifying: (i)type o f grievance; (ii) o f complaint; (iii) of
                                                                               date                     status
complaint (pending or resolved); and (iv) level at which the complaint was resolvedby whom. Operational
elements o f the complaints handlingmechanism are further elaborated inAnnex 11 (Anti-corruption Action
Plan) andinthe Project Operational Manual.

G.        Monitoring and Evaluation

Environmental monitoring. Implementation o f EMPs and SOPs i s the responsibility o f contractors, as set out
in bid and contract documents. Field-based environmental monitoring of SOPs to ensure contractor
compliance i s the primary responsibility o f the supervising engineer assigned for each sub-project by the
relevant Dinas PU. Additional support and spot-checking will be carried by the safeguards specialists
assigned to the geographically based consultant teams funded under this TA, in coordination with local
environmental authorities.

Field based environmental monitoring o f EMPs associated with UISLAJPL and AMDALs i s the primary
responsibility o f local environmental authorities. As current capacity to fulfill these tasks i s extremely low,
monitoring will be carried out by safeguards staff assigned to the geographically based supervision teams.
However special attention will be givento ensuring that local environmental authorities are able participate.
For example, the geographically based safeguards specialists will coordinate their monitoring missions
closely with local environmental authorities ensuring that adequate transportation i s available.

The IPMteam will develop a monitoring andreporting system, to be further detailed inthe Project Manual.
This will include field based environmental monitoring protocols tailored to project type, a budget for the
purchase of monitoring equipment and usables, and clear procedures for dealing with non-compliances. One
o f the initial tasks to be carried out by the IPMenvironmental specialist will be to develop the monitoring
protocols, and provide related training to Dinas PU supervising engineers, local environmental authorities
andthe geographically based consultants.

The results o f environmental monitoring will be collated on a three monthly basis by geographically based
safeguards staff and submitted to the IPMteam on a biannual basis, Significant non-compliances will be
noted inthese reports, whether issues raisedhave been resolved and what corrective actions were taken. Six
monthly monitoringreports will be submittedby the BRRto the WBOJ as an inputto supervision missions.

Routine IDA supervision missions will assess the overall implementation o f the framework and, ifrequired,
recommend additional support.


                                                     81

Social monitoring. Monitoring and evaluation will be done to ensure that the social issues and impacts have
been addressed properly and in a participatory, fair, and transparent manner, in particular where land
acquisition and resettlement processes take place. The geographically based social safeguards staff will
carry out datdinformation collection to monitor the progress and impacts, consolidate this information,
advise on necessary follow up actions, and provide 6 monthly status reports to the BRR/IPM team.
Additional independent social monitoring focusing on implementation o f LARAPswill be carried out by the
BWPMon a spot checking basis. A suitable local academic institutionor NGOswill be engaged for this
work, based on TORS be drafted by the IPMteam.
                         to

H.       Responsibilities,CapacityBuildingandIndicativeBudget

Underthe overall coordination bythe BRR,eachprojectimplementingentity at the province andlocal
government level i s expected to take responsibility inensuring that this framework i s supported. The key
tasks, responsibilities, and relatedmanagement actions required insupporting the framework are listedinthe
following table.


               Tasks                       Responsibility                          Required actions
 Detailed social and                IPMsafeguards specialists    A detailedset o fprocedures for screening, review,
 environmental management                                        approval, monitoring and reporting will be
procedures for integration into                                  developed withinthe first three months o fthe
 the project manual                                              project, for discussion with local governments, and
                                                                 BRRapproval. The procedures will bebasedon
                                                                 this safeguards annex.
Development o ftraining             I P M safeguards specialists Training materialsprepared inIndonesianfor joint
modules andmaterials, required                                   social and environmental training inthree modules
 standards and guidelines                                        including:
                                                                           General introduction to the safeguards
                                                                           framework (3 days)
                                                                           Specialist training for project staff(2 days)
                                                                           Specialist training for contractors (2 days)
                                                                 Guidelines and formats for screening (including
                                                                 basic informationrequired when local governments
                                                                 submittheir Annual Investment Plans), review,
                                                                 monitoring and reporting.
General environmental and           IPMsafeguardsspecialists     Delivery o f 3x3-day training events to be held in
social safeguards orientation       and geographically based     Banda Aceh, Meulabohand Nias. Approximately
training for Project staff, and key safeguards specialists       50people attending each event.
local government counterparts
(Bappeda, P U and Bapedalda)
Specialist environmental and        Geographically based         Year 1delivery o f3x2-day training events to be
social training inscreening,        safeguards specialists       heldinBanda Aceh, Meulaboh andNias.
review and supervision                                           Approximately 100people attending each event
procedures, for project staff and                                Year 2 delivery 1or 2 training events for newly
field suDervision eneineers                                      recruiting staff.
Specialist environmental and        Geographically based         Rolling training program to be provided for all
social training for contractors     safeguards specialists       contractors. Contractors to be issued a certificate
focusing o n implementation o f                                  for renewal every 3 years,
EMPs, LARAPSand SOPS
Specialist training for            IPMsocial safeguards          All localconsultants carrying out LARAPSwill
consultants engaged incarrying      specialist with support      require 3 day training inWorld Bankprocedures for
out LARAPs                          fiom WBOJ                    landacquisition andresettlement.
Orientation paper on               IPMenvironmental              Study will be completed within the f i s t 6 months o f



                                                          82

Ienvironmental issues and       safeguards specialist      effectiveness o f this TA.

                                IPMsafeguards specialists, 3 step screening process applied to all sub-projects
                                inconsultationwithlocal    approved for findingbyBRFUIPMteam
                                environmental authorities
 Commission environmental and   PMsafeguardsspecialists    The LocalInfrastructure ReconstructionFacility is
 social studies (AMDAL,                                    expected to find approximately US$350-400
 UKLAJF'L,L A W )as                                        millionfor a total o f 60-80 individualprojects. 10-
 necessary                                                  15% are o f these projects are expected to require
                                                           fullEA and/or full LARAP. 40-50% o fprojects are
                                                           expected to require UKLAJF'Lor abbreviated
                                                           LARAP.
                                Localenvironmental         TORSfor AMDAL studies to be draftedby PM
                                authority (Province level  environmental specialist.
                                duringYear 1)              Formal review and approval o f TORSand draft
                                                           AMDALbyProvincialAMDAL Commission
                                                           Formal review and approval o fUKLAJPL by local
                                                           environmental authority
 Review andapproval o f         WBOJ, withprior review     Geographically based social safeguards consultants
 LARAPs                         and acceptance by    '     to ensure study conclusions are agreed with LGs,
                                respective LGs             prior to submission o f draft reports to WBOJ for
                                                           approval, via IPMteam.
 Provide compensation for land  LocalGovernments           Formandrate o f compensationto be negotiated
 acquisition and lost                                      withProject AffectedPeoplebyLocalGovernment
 assets/livelihoods                                        with assistance from geographically based social
                                                           safeguards staff.
                                                           Compensationdelivered infillby LG, prior to
                                                           award o f contract.
 Monitoring and reporting       For SOPS, field based      Supervising engineers complete field protocols
                                supervisingengineers       Monitoring data compiledby local safeguards
                                supported by               specialists into 3 monthly reports for PM
                                geographically based       t e a N B O J
                                safeguard specialists
                                For AMDAL and              Geographically based safeguards consultants will
                                UKLAJPL, local             carry out routine inspections with a focus on sub-
                                environmental authorities  projects requiring AMDAL incoordination with
                                supported by               local environmental authorities.
                                geographically based
                                safeguard specialists
                                For LARAPs,                Individualreports submitted to PMteam and
                                geographically based       WBOJ, as necessary, for each sub-project
                                safeguard specialists, and
                                via independent
                                organizations
                                For IsolatedVulnerable     For Nias only. Individual reports submitted to IPM
                               people, geographically      team and WBOJ as necessary.
                               based safeguards
                                specialists




                                                      83

The main capacity needs and related budget items required to support implementation of this
framework areprovidedinthe followingtable.


                 Item                         Needs                            Indicative budget
   Environmental and social     1Senior (international)           18 months, including 12months
   safeguards support to the    Environmental Specialist         continuous duringyear 1.
   I P M(also covering province 1Senior Social Specialist        24 months, including 12months
   level infrastructure                                          continuous during year 1.
   investments)                 Facility to hire consultants for Initial US$lmillion inh d s to cover
                                social and environmental         costs o f environmental and social studies.
                                studies                          Additional resources to be made available
                                                                 as necessary via the Local Infrastructure
                                                                 Reconstruction Facility.
   Environmental and social     1safeguards specialist (social   36 man-months
   safeguards support to the    andenvironmental)
   Nias TA Team
   Environmental and social     2 environmental specialists      50 man-months (total)
   safeguards support to the    2 social specialists             50 man-months (total)
   West Coast TA Team

   Environmental and social     Development and delivery o f     N o additional cost
   safeguards training          modules to be preparedby IPM
                                safeguards specialists

                                Training budget required for an  US$7,000 per training event to cover
                                estimated 15 training events     costs o ftravel, accommodation for
                                over the course o f the TA       participations, roomhire, consumables

   Capacity buildingfor local   1environmental specialist to be  Fulltime (36 months) at localgovernment
   environmental offices        providedto Provincial            fee rates for a midto senior level official
                                Bapedalda to assist with
                                routine project screening and
                                review functions.
   Monitoring and reporting     Travel costs                     US$25,000 to be allocated to each o fthe
                                                                 following contracts -IPM, West Coast,
                                                                 Nias (Province levelto be coveredunder
                                                                 IPMcontract)




                                                      84

   ANNEX 9A: INDIGENOUSPEOPLESPLANNINGFRAMEWORK TREATMENT INDIGENOUSOR
                                                                     FOR                OF
                                       ISOLATEDVULNERABLEPEOPLE


Objectives

The design o fthis project i s structuredto ensure the participation andinclusiono f various groups within
communities inlocal level decision making over resource allocation. However, the projectrecognizesthat
IndigenousPeoples from a particular group that merit a differentapproach and specific support. Therefore,
inaccordance withOP4.10, the following framework for addressing indigenous peoplewill be adopted for
the project.

The Objectivesofthis framework areto:
             (i)     Ensure that indigenous peoples are involved infree and informed consultation on
                     planned project activities;
             (ii)    Ensure that indigenous peoplesparticipate inand benefit from the project;
             (iii)   Avoid or minimize potentially adverse effects o f the project on indigenous people

Definition

"Isolated vulnerable peoples" (IVP) i s the term usedofficially by the Indonesian Government to describe
groups that have the characteristics o f "indigenous peoples'' as used inOP 4.10. This document will
hereafter use the term "isolated vulnerable people".

For the purposes o fthis project, isolatedvulnerable peoples are defined as those that present varying degrees
o fthe following characteristics:
             (iv)    a close attachment to ancestral territories andto the natural resources inthese areas;
             (v)     self-identification andidentificationby others as members o f a distinct cultural group;
             (vi)    an indigenous language different from the common regionallanguage (e.g. Javanese);
             (vii)   the presence o f customary social andpolitical institutions; and
             (viii) primarilysubsistence-oriented production.

Framework

The IVPwill be the beneficiaries o f the projecthub project and no projects/subprojectswith adverse impact
to the IVPwill be approved, includinginvoluntary land acquisition affecting 200 or more people.

Isolated vulnerable peoples are not prevalent inall the project sites -they are only found inthe islands o f
Nias and not inthe Province o fAceh. The following steps will be taken to ensure that, where isolated
vulnerable groups do exist, the project caters to their specific needs.


        (1)      For the areas where isolated vulnerable groups are identified (parts o fNias), social
                 safeguards specialists will organize orientation training for relevant staffwithin the local
                 administration (Bappeda, Dinas PUandBapedalda) inhow to work with isolated
                 vulnerable groups ina usefulway to identifymechanisms for effective participation, and
                 address specific challenges inworking with such groups, for example, how to deal with
                 groups that may be inconflict with the larger community, etc.
        (ii)     Opportunities will be provided for I V P s to be consulted independently, out o fthe non-IW
                 group ina language/dialect familiar to them




                                                        85

        (iii)     Appropriate media and means o f communication will be identified and applied, potentially
                  different from consultationsprocesses applied innon-IVP areas
        (iv)      Where the isolated vulnerable group speaks a language different from Bahasa Indonesia,
                  relevant brochures and documents will be translated inthe appropriate language.

These stepswill be aimed at ensuring that isolated vulnerable peoples participate fully inthe project, are
aware o f their rightsandresponsibilities, and are able to voice their needs duringthe participatory planning
process.

Monitoring and Grievance Procedures

Where isolated vulnerable peoples are identified, the safeguards specialists within the geographically
located TA teams will berequiredto report on their participation inthe project, both to the IPMandto the
World Bank.

The project has a complaint system that allows community members to raise issues or complaints at various
levels- at the community level (through community leaders), at the district level (through the respective
Dinas PU), and at the BRRlevel (through the Complaints HandlingUnit).Where isolatedvulnerable people
are concerned, the relevant safeguard specialists will ensure that grievance redressal mechanisms are
developed inculturally appropriate ways inclose collaboration with the relevant group.

Project evaluation studies will include monitoring and evaluation o f the impact o fthe project on isolated
vulnerable people.

The IVP-NGOwill be part o f the monitoringteam andinvolved infacilitatingthe participatory planning
process inthe program.




                                                       86

                                ANNEX10:ANTI-CORRUPTION ACTION PLAN



A.       Background

This Anti-corruption Action Plan (ACAP) concerns the crucial Technical Assistance packages that will be
mobilized in the first phase o f the infrastructure reconstruction enabling program. These consultants will
help BRR to prepare and later supervise the second phase o f the program, when hundreds o f millions o f
dollars will eventually be invested inthe repair and construction o f vital infrastructures. Since the first phase
sets the groundwork for the second, it is important to build into this ACAP two forms o f anti-corruption
measures: those which help to protect the crucial TAs launched under the first phase, and those aspects
which must start to put inplace a system that will protect the second phase.

T h i s ACAP should be understood within the overall post-disaster context o f the Aceh-Nias reconstruction
effort. In particular, it needs to be understood in relation to the BRR itself and the agency's mandate,
strengths and weaknesses. The existence o f a specific Anti-Corruption Unit within BRR i s o f particular
significance to the ACAP. This unit o f BRR has confirmedthat, whilst needing to remain independent from
the project management structure in order to ensure objectivity, it will be able to provide advice to the
project in terms o f preventative measures such as disclosure o f information and civil society oversight. It
will also be able to provide direct support for activities such as corruption-related complaints
handlingreferral and case tracking, which are functions that the BRR Anti-Corruption Unit i s mandated to
perform for all BRR activities. The unit understands fully that this program brings the BRR's involvement
inproject implementation to anewlevelofengagement, andthat this will require their special attention.

The structure o f this ACAP follows guidance from the World Bank's Anti-Corruption Committee for
Indonesia. Inparticular, it outlines risks and mitigation measures inrelation to six key elements, namely: (i)
disclosure; (ii)civil society oversight; (iii)  collusion mitigation; (iv) mitigation o f forgery and fraud; (v)
complaints handling; (vi) sanctions and remedies. Each o f these elements i s further discussed in the Action
Plan section o f the annex. Because o f the special nature o f the assignment, based as it i s within the context
o f the Aceh-Nias reconstruction effort, BRR's Anti-Corruption Unithas requested a seventh element to be
added: that o f effective involvement o f the localparliament (DPRD) inthe oversight o fthe program.

The proposed project i s the first phase o f an important infrastructure reconstruction program. The
significance o f this phasing and some o f its key aspects are discussed below.

FirstPhase(technical assistancemobilizatiodpreparation)
Inthis phase six very important TA packages will be mobilized. It is envisaged that each of these will be
continued, possibly through to the end o f the second phase depending on the needs o f the BRR for TA
support. One main consultancy contract, the Infrastructure Program Management consultants (IPM), will
provide contract management and oversight assistance to the BRR. The IPMwill primarily be focusing on
strategic planning, consolidating inputs from and monitoring the three subproject preparatiodsupervision
consultancies, each o fwhich will further assist the BRR and local governments to create local infrastructure
plans. The current design calls for different teams to assist with (a) Strategic Infrastructure; (b) West Coast
Infrastructure Development; (c) Infrastructure on Nias Island.Parallel to the IPM, a financial management
consultancy will strengthen the necessary fiduciary processes and a separate audit facility will provide
additional support for external financial audits. The Annex dealing with financial management issues
provides more detailed informationonthe work o fthe financial management consultants and auditors.




                                                        87

 The IPM team will design a system to check implementation progress on the ground either internally,
 through the consultant teams, or through an external technical auditor. The sample size, methodology, etc.
 will be developed by the I P Mteam.

 The most important anti-corruption measures needed to protect the first phase o f the program will focus on
 preventing collusion inprocurement and other forms o f misprocurement in relation to the abovementioned
 TA contracts. The effective management o f the contracts, based on the clearly defined deliverables, is
 another serious concern which ifnot properly addressed could lead to corruption andor serious loses due to
 delays and inefficiencies.

 Second Phase (Subproject Implementation)
 It is envisaged that the contracts started under the first phase will continue with supervisory functions as
 well as refining local infrastructure plans during the lifespan o f the program. Based on the plans from the
 first phase, many sub-projects will be launched early in the second phase, with an initial emphasis on
'"repairing what i s broken" rather than on new infrastructures driven by longer term economic development
 plans. More strategic infrastructures are likely tojoin the list o f subprojects as the projectprogresses.

 At the beginning, most ifnot all o fthe realresponsibility for works will be borne by the BRR, even though
 local government may be involved inthe process. The intentioni s to hand over this responsibility duringthe
 life o f the project to the local governments as their capacity to procure and manage contracts increases. This
 presents an important challenge as the project transitions from a centralized to decentralized mode o f
 working - with very different anti-corruption challenges when the project is fully centralized, partially
 decentralized and fully decentralized. This transitional challenge must be reflected in the TORSfor all key
 design consultants as well as inthe strategic plans.

 BRR will assign     *'"Satker"    (ineffect, subproject management teams consisting of four key personnel for
 the daily management o f subprojects), with members proposed by local governments. The Satker will be
 responsible for managing the implementation o f civil works at the local level. It i s envisaged that the Satker
 would be involved inthe procurement process.

 Procurement activities for the first year o f the second stage will happen physically in Banda Aceh. The
 Satkers will need to travel to attend. At the end o f that year, the IPM consultants will produce a
 "procurement capacity assessmentreport for local governments and provincial Dinases." This report will set
 thebenchmark for procurement capacity at the local government level, determine progress after the capacity
 building takes place and will assist in determining which entities will be ready to carry out their own
 procurement under the monitoring o f BRR.

 Duringthe second phase o fthe programaround one-third o fthe funds will be usedfor small (less thanUS$2
 million) civil works subprojects, whilst roughly two-thirds will be used for larger subprojects. It can be
 assumed that the smaller projects will present a special set o f challenges in terms of reducing corruption
 risks, as there will tend to be a plethora o f widely-distributed small infrastructure repairs/constructions that
 will be difficult for BRR and their consultants to keep track of. There will doubtless be a need to promote
 extensive information dissemination and engage effective third-party oversight through both formal and
 informal linkages with external groups such as religious and mass organizations, NGOs and universities. It
 will be important to ensure that such groups properly understand the local plans o f the project andthe basic


 2o One option is to select the Satker fromunder the District Head (Bupati) rather than under the individual Dinas so that
 there would (a) only be one per district instead o f one per sector and (b) so that the loyalty of the Satker would not be
 split so muchbetweenthe project and the Dinas as tends to happennow. This mighthelp to reduce complexity of
 supervisionand some of the possible corruption risks.



                                                              88

processes that should be followed, so that complaints born out o f misinformation or misunderstandings can
beminimized. Though not very expensive inrelation to the overall project costs, it will still be important to
ensure sufficient, timely availability o fbudget.

B.         Action Plan

Description
This action plan follows the six key elements that have been identified by the World Bank's Anti-
Corruption Committee for Indonesia. Each o f these i s described below, along with a seventh element
suggested by the BRR's own Anti-Corruption Unit: effective involvement o f the local parliament (DPRD),
particularly inrelation to the oversight o fthe second phase o fthe program.

The plan focuses on preventingcorruptioninthe key TA contracts and on preparing the groundwork for the
future implementation phase. It does not provide a comprehensive set o f tools to fully protect the
forthcoming investments.

The implementation of this plan depends on strong support from the BRR through its PMU. It i s assumed
that a small Ethics Team2' will be established within the BRR, as advisors to the PMU. This Ethics Team
would work closely with the IPMconsultants, providing timely advice to the PMUon issues such as:

                   Adapting and adopting procedures acceptable to the MDF and the government for hiring
                   andmanaging consultants and contractors;

               0   Ensuringthat parliament andcivil society groups are properly informedandengaged within
                   an appropriate "third-party" monitoring system.

It is important that the plan is operationalized, andtherefore all Manuals and training materials relatedto the
project shouldreflect the aspects o f the ACAP that are relevant to their subjects.

To ensure success, it is vital that sufficient funds be made available for the activities outlined inthis plan.
Most o f these activities are already mainstreamed as procedures under financial management, procurement
and monitoring, but some aspects such as information dissemination and complaint handlingmay require a
small additional budget. This will not be a significant restraint for the initial phase, but it i s very important
that budgets are carefully prepared duringthe first phase for the broader investment phase.

The following pages elaborate the six key elements o f the plan, beginning with recommendations for each to
protect the first phase, which are essentially aspects related to the procurement and management o f the
crucial TA contracts. These sections are then followed by recommendations for preparation for the second
phase, which discuss aspects that needto be addressedinorder to safeguard the future investment phase.

Disclosure o f Information
To encourage healthy competition between bidders, the P M U must ensure that information i s widely
circulated, particularly in relation to the procurement o f the initial contracts. This will be done using
established procedures (e.g., advertisements in newspapers and on internet website), enhancing with
additional measures whenpossible.

To avoid misinformation circulating about the project, the P M U must ensure that groups interested in the
project are kept up to date with progress duringprocurement and implementation phases, inter alia through
*'T h i s team would greatly benefit from having access to a fulltime Advisor on operational aspects, includingthe MDF
and government disbursement, procurement and financial management guidelines.


                                                            89

the use o f an electronic mailing list and by sending information directly to key distribution hubs such as
NGO fora.

Preparation for the second phase (investment in civil works). With advice from the Anti-corruption Unit of
BRR and from the project-related EthicsTeam, the IPMmust design a simple but effective system that uses
different mechanisms for sharing public information (e:g., posting hll audit and progress reports on the
project internet websites; sending summary reports on a monthly basis to the press and civil society forums;
having contractors read progress reports at district level Accountability Meetings at least twice per
annurdcontract period; having full documents available inpublic informationcenters, etc).

The PMU must ensure that all consultant and contractor packages promote effective transparency. For
example, all subproject sites must have information boards, the standards for which must be established by
the BRR with advice from the IPMand the BRR's Ethics Team. The PMUmust also ensure that sufficient
resources are available for disclosure measures and that these are reflected in the TORs/contracts for the
subprojects.

Civil Society Oversight
To broaden informal oversight coverage and further reduce the problems related to misinformation, the
P M U will ensure that "socialization" o f civil society oversight begins as soon as possible, so that civil
society becomes aware of the forthcoming biddingprocess for the first phase contracts and so that local
governments can see that BRR fosters coordination with key external groups, such as the local parliament
and higher education institutions, both o f which should be encouraged to send representatives to witness the
procurement process and comment on progress.

The core consultants (IPMand other design consultants) must hold Accountability Meetings at least every
six months in both Aceh and Nias, where civil society groups can hear about the contracts, progress and
pose questions. The IPMshould help BRR to organize these meetings and ensure that a wide range o f actors
are invited.

Preparation for the second phase. Methods for ensuring the effective inclusion o f members from civil
society and parliament inthe bidding committees and monitoring o f implementation must be discussed and
agreed. This becomes increasingly difficult as the contracts themselves are to be implemented in several
districts over Aceh and Nias, therefore "local" groups need to be involved appropriately without this
becoming an undue burden on the project.

Plans for achieving effective third-party monitoring o f procurement and implementation must therefore be
defined by the BRR with assistance from the IPMand the Ethics Team. Some flexibility to these plans will
be needed in order for them to be appropriate in the various locations. All contracts must include clauses
that ensure the inclusion o f the firm concerned in Accountability Meetings at the appropriate level. Recent
experience inprevious projects indicates that selection and preparation o f thirdparty partners should not be
delegated to local government.

CollusionMitigation
The procurement team for the first technical assistance packages will be supported by professional
procurement advisors. Strict procurement measures will be followed inorder to minimize risks o f collusion
in the initial contracts. These measures include wide publication of biddingannouncements, etc. (please
refer to the specific risks and mitigating internal control measures highlighted in the annexes 7 and 8). As
mentioned above, the BRR will encourage representatives from civil society and, where possible, local
parliament to act as observers o fthe key stages inprocurement.




                                                      90

Preparation for the second phase. Special attention must be given to the planning and preparation o f
procurement processes for the second phase, as this may entail very different package types and sizes,
different levels o f responsibility (e.g. shared between BRR and local governments), and different local
capacities in terms o f process management and oversight (internal and external). The preparation o f
materials and schedules for the investment phase must reflect the reality o f each situation, including special
measures to protect against collusion as necessary for each subproject type and area. For example, it could
be that some areas or subproject types may just require some basic briefing materials for third-party
observers to procurement whilst for others special observers may have to be brought from Banda Aceh or
from elsewhere. Sensitive but practical systems need to be designed and put in place to allow appropriate
collusionmitigation for each contract type.

MitigationofForgery andFraud
Forgery and fraud risks will be minimized by adherence to fiduciary management practices (see also annex
8). These measures will include strict payment validation procedures that will be rigorously enforced.
Project filinghookkeeping will be tightly controlled and subject to strict reviews. Internal and external
audits will be held to ensure that fiduciary management i s inaccordance with the agreed procedures. Special
attention will be given to aspects that have proven vulnerable inprevious projects, such as "soft" categories
like training, workshops and information dissemination. Internal audits will be carried out by the BRR,
while external audits will be outsourced to a professional audit company through the Supreme Audit Board
(BPK).

Preparation for the second phase. In addition to the aspects outlined above, the consultants hired under the
first phase o f the program will eventually be tasked with assisting the BRR in supervisory work, including
routine and ad hoc reviews o f other contracts, etc. Inpreparation for this it will be necessary during the first
phase to design and adopt supervision methodologies that can effectively mitigaterisks.

ComplaintsHandling
A sufficiently independent and credible system is already available within the Anti-Corruption Unit of the
BRR.The PMUshouldmake full use o fthis system throughout the life ofthe program.

Preparation for the second phase. The current system under the Anti-Corruption Unit o f the BRR will form
the backbone o f the complaint handling system for the program. If the number and severity o f the
complaints becomes too extreme for the unit to handle then this may require strengthening, but at the
present time this i s thought to be unlikely. An assessment will be made by the IPMduring the first phase o f
theprogramto ensurethat there areno immediate needs for strengtheningthe complainthandlingsystem.

SanctionsandRemedies
BRR may use its own sanctioning regime which includes blacklisting of companies. Ifnecessary, the BRR
Anti-corruption Unit will activate and monitor the referral system to external authorities (e.g., the
police/KPK) to gauge iflegal and/or administrative sanctions are being effectively applied.

Preparation for the second phase. The project design should build in some awareness-raising functions
targeted at the contractors (especially for small contracts) so that they hlly understand the rules and the
sanctions that will be applied in relation to these specific works - e.g., ensure that they know that this will
not be "business as usual" and that automatic investigations will be launched whenever serious suspicions o f
corruptionarise. The I P M and the Ethics Team will prepare materials for this on behalfo fthe BRR.

This i s a highrisk project in a highrisk environment, so there are likely to be several cases o f abuse found
duringthe implementation phase. Even ifthe project only follows up on a small number o f `winnable' cases,
it will senda good message. The P M Uwill ensure that provencases o f corruptionget highpublicity so that
they will act as a social deterrent. Depending on the case, sanctions may be imposed by on individual


                                                      91

offenders, companies or other entities. A step-by-step process for this will be devised by the IPM with
advice from the EthicsTeam.

The BRR needs to ensure that there will be a mechanism whereby disbursements will cease to flow to
offending units or subprojects until corruption cases are appropriately dealt with. Depending on the case,
this mightbe at the levelo findividualcontracts, or entire administrative units (e.g., districts). Again, a clear,
step-by-stepprocess mustbepreparedfor these activities duringthe first phase.

Effective Involvemento f the Local Parliament
The PMU will ensure that the local parliament (DPRD) i s actively engaged from the beginningby insisting
that they are properly involved in the strategic planning stage. It will also invite representatives from the
relevant commission to observe the procurement process on the condition that conflict o f interests i s
avoided. Later on, the PMU will ensure that DPRD are invited through relevant commission to all
Accountability Meetings. All o f these activities will require inputsfrom the Ethics Team and the IPM.

Preparation for the second phase. Because the DPRD have a mandate to monitor development, and to
allocate local development funds, they need to be aware o f all significant infrastructure works in their area.
However, they may need some briefing or very basic training to fulfill their related functions in an optimal
way. Under the guidance o f the PMU, the TA packages must identify training needs ineach area and design
the packages needed for the second phase. A design i s needed to minimize the risk of conflict of interest
(particularly when involving DPRD in observing procurement processes) and undue politicizing o f the
development agenda. One option that should be considered i s to ask SPADA to help identify specific local
training needs and ask a local universityto provide the training personnel, perhaps after some TOT from the
IPMworking alongsidethe EthicsTeam.




                                                        92

            ANNEX 11:SUMMARIESOFm pTECHNICALASSISTANCETERMSOFREFERENCE



This annex provides the detailed scope o f work and key tasks from the draft terms o f reference (TOR)
prepared for the IPM and the West Coast TA packages. The IPM TOR provides an overview o f how the
PM consultant will assist BRR as it develops and supports strategic programs across the five logistical
areas o f Aceh and Nias to plan, identify, quantify, prepare and deliver the optimal reconstruction programs,
support direct execution by BRR and coordinate programs funded by other sources. The West Coast TOR
illustrates tasks necessary to undertake the planning, project preparation, and implementation work for the
West Coast logistical area22. This team will provide assistance to the local governments in strategic
planning, project design and implementation, and institutional development support and training. Tasks in
the Nias TOR are similar to those o f the West Coast; thus, only the West Coast TOR i s presented here. The
draft TORSfor all five project components are inthe project file.

A.          InfrastructureProgramManagement(US$19.5 million)

Detailed scope o f work. The IPM consultants will assist BRR to ensure that the proposed infrastructure
investmentswill be economically, financially, and institutionally sustainable and will have positive health,
environmental and social impacts. The Consultant will be based in BRR headquarters in Banda Aceh; the
Consultant will also give consideration to the appropriateness and timing of, at some stage, operating
through additional sub teams, located in and working with the seven BRR Regional Offices recently
established in sub-regions o fAceh.

The IPMConsultant will institute and maintain close liaison with all providers o f reconstruction assistance
and services, technical assistance (TA) management service providers working under BRR on this overall
program, and will design, implement, and manage cost and time-effective processes to appropriately
monitor andcoordinate all activities inthe infrastructure reconstruction program. Management systems and
skills .would ensure that investments are rationally prioritized, quality and standards are consistent, program
management information i s reliable, consistent and timely, processes to ensure donor funds are matched
with demand, and that the less "high-profile" andor more scattered projects are not ignored.               This
coordination strategy for infrastructure would rationalize fund utilization and reduce competing interests
between levels o f government andduplication between donors, while achieving results on the ground.

Phasing o f services and deliverables. This consultancy assignment is both complex and cyclical due to the
nature o f the services described in this TOR. The IPM consultant tasks and responsibilities focus on
assisting BRR to devise and implement a sustainable, well-designed and managed infrastructure plan for
Aceh andNias that fits with the government's yearly budget cycle.

In this regard, the first three months of this consultancy are unique, and require an initial period of
assessment and planning to ensure optimal use o f the skilled resources comprising the IPMteam. During
this initial period, the consultant will update and refine the Work Plan as submitted in the consultant's
proposal and develop Key Performance Indicators (KPI) to track and monitor progress of the TA. This
process will help rationalize and clarify the specific deliverables, delivery o f initial outputs, and the
incorporation o f adjustments, if any, (such as timing or content) to inputs. This would be in detailed
consultation with BRR, and building on the Work Plan in the proposal submitted by the consultant for this
assignment.




22 Aceh Jaya, Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singkil and Simeulue


                                                            93

The remainingtasks discussed inthe following eight sections outline the specific responsibilities o f the IPM
consultant, including the corresponding deliverables and skills necessary to complete these outputs. Many of
these activities (once initiated) are ongoing and will require successive updating and monitoring. Inaddition,
as the Go1 envisions that BRR will disband in 2009, it i s essential that the IPM consultants help BRR
prepare a viable exit strategy to facilitate this exit ina well-managed way.

Task 1 StrategicDlanning
        -
One o f BRR's mandates i s strategic planning for all infrastructure recovery activities, covering the
following sectors: roads, ports, airports, telecommunications, water, sanitation, drainage, flood control,
irrigation, power, and public buildings.This responsibility includes: (i)     understanding and progressing the
infrastructure activities o f all major donors as well as those o f local and provincial governments; (ii)
identifyingthe main gaps; (iii)   developing a list o f priority projects across infrastructure sectors designed to
fill these gaps; and, (iv) allocating responsibilities between various stakeholders to ensure swift
implementation o fpriority projects.

StrategicInfrastructureReconstructionPlan
The IPM team, together with BRR, will undertake the following activities to prepare an updated master
strategic   infrastructure reconstruction plan,         incorporating individual sectoral plans highlighting
correspondingneeds andpriority projects inaffected areas:

              (a) review existing donor program and local government reconstruction and medium to long
                            term development;
              (b) assess and review the full range o f existing and proposed community based village and
                            environmental plans, and planningactivity identifying strengths, gaps,        and
                  issues arising;
              (c) identify gaps in existing plans, policies, strategies for reconstruction and long           term
                            service delivery, andresource allocations;
              (d) develop list o f priority project so fill gaps, and set out alternative policies and
                            allocations o f  responsibilities across stakeholders;
              (e) review alternative mechanisms and construction cost implications for the reconstruction
                            o fAceh and Nias;
              (f) prepare strategic and sectoral plans, which will outline activities over the next three to five
                            years;
              (g) combine these into Strategic Infrastructure Reconstruction Plan for the reconstruction
                            o fAceh           and Nias The plans should promote projects large enough to
                            take full advantage o f    economies o f scales wherever possible;
              (h) review and update the Strategic Infrastructure Reconstruction Plan and subsets every six
                            months with the Infrastructure Board of the BRR; and
              (i)prepare a Comprehensive Exit Strategy, setting out options, possible outcomes and
                            implicationso f alternatives for Aceh and BRR,paying special attention to long
                           term sustainability and management o f investments and social development assets
                       reconstructed          and instigatedduringBRRsreconstructionassignment.

The design o f the strategy and sectoral plans will be undertaken in close coordination with local and
provincial governments, to ensure that BRR's plans reflect the information available to local and provincial
governments, and to maximize alignment between the strategic plans prepared by BRR and those prepared
by local and provincial governments. The consultants will be responsible to organize and facilitate as
needed the interaction with local governments to ensure BRR's Strategic Plan i s well-integrated with local
government plans.




                                                          94

InvestmentPlanning

Inparallel, and as part of the above Strategic Infrastructure Plan, inorder to optimize resource utilization
and to meet the budgeting timetable, the IPMconsultant will provide specific investment planninginputs to
theBRRannualbudget cycle process, includingthe following:

    Budget year 2007 (January - December)
             (a) collect and review existing budgetedproject lists;
             (b) prepare, in consultation with BRR and proposed project ownersheneficiaries, prioritized
                  project listings, and assessment o f implementation arrangements between different
                  stakeholders;
             (c) review these priorities against strategic priorities and concerns; and
             (d) prepare an optimal investment programandproject listing for submission.

    Budgetyear 2008onwards(January December)  -
             (a) verify readiness o f project, costs estimates, and feasibility, and prepare updated rolling
                  investment plans;
             (b) each Oct & May for period o f assignment (connected with the budget cycle), prepare
                  updated strategic plan (see above) and updated investment plan in line with BRR budget
                  cycle and expected infrastructure allocations;
             (c) collect andreview existing budgeted project lists;
             (d) prepare, in consultation with BRR and proposed project ownersheneficiaries, prioritized
                  project listings, and assessment o f implementation arrangements between different
                  stakeholders;
             (e) review these priorities against strategic priorities, plans and concerns;
             (e) prepare optimal rolling investment program andproject listingfor submission; and
             ( f ) support BRR inthe preparation o f a proposed MDTF infrastructure financing facility.

Deliverables and timing
    0      Outline o f Strategic InfrastructureReconstructionPlan              end month2
    0      FirstStrategic InfrastructureReconstruction Plan                    end month 3, updated every 6
                                                                               months
    0      2007 Investment Plan                                                end month 3
    0      2008 onwards Investment Plans                                       Updated 6 monthly
           Draft BRR Exit Strategy                                             Years 1-3

Skills anticbated
Program Management; Strategic and Investment Planning; Urban and Regional Planning; Finance and
Financial management; Community and Social Development; Engineering andprocurement skills

Task 2 ProgramManagement
        -
The participation of many local government agencies, donors, non-governmental agencies and other
stakeholders working in infrastructure reconstruction throughout Aceh and Nias, necessitates that BRR has
the ability to coordinate activities, leverage resources and identify gaps in implementation that need to be
addressed. This would enable BRR to redirect possible alternate sources o f finance, accelerate
reconstruction and enhance longtern sustainability.




                                                       95

The programmanagement function o f this TA will support BRRto review, report on, assess the adequacy o f
and identify optimal next steps o f all reconstruction programs, tracking progress and results. By having this
information available, BRR will be able to identify possible redirecting o f donor and other investments to
realizeunmetneeds inaffected communities.
To achieve this, the IPMteam will be responsibleto:
             (a) review and assess the adequacy o f existing database and related information systems, and
                 recommend any adjustments needed to enable effective programmanagement;
             (b) supplement andor design, provide and get operational, program tracking, management
                 information system (MIS) and financial reporting systems, build on and ensure avoiding
                 duplication o f the existing BRRbusiness andinformationmanagement systems;
             (c) advise and assist BRR in reviewing and tracking donor-supported programs, and explore
                 optimal ways o fredirecting resources where found appropriate;
             (d) actively strengthen BRR participation in infrastructure sectoral working groups seeking to
                 enhance coordination and communication links among stakeholders engaged in the
                 recovery process;
             (e) prepare and assist BRR to implement an external communications program-reporting
                 progress and disseminating information to the public and stakeholders regarding
                 implementation; progress. This function will be carried out in collaboration with BRR's
                 communications office;
             (f) report through a monthly Reconstruction Program Progress Report based on the
                 updatedredesigned monitoring and evaluation framework and MIS, trackmg progress
                 toward achieving the objectives o fBRR's overall strategic plan for infrastructure.

    Deliverablesand Timing
        MIS draft Proposals (end month 3) then updated as needed
        Monthly Reconstruction Program Progress Report, containing program tracking, management
        information and financial reporting system, including procedures for tracking the following:
        Financial andbudget management for BRR;
    0   Program management, including tracking timing, costs and outputs o f BRR, and all NGO,
        multilateral and bilateralprograms;
         Standards and Quality Control Management;
        Materials Requirements and logistics Management;
        RiskManagement;
     0  Electronic Data Management systems consistency;
        Document Production, Review and Approval;

        Non-conformance and ImprovementManagement;
        External Communications Program.

BRR already has extensive management, financial control systems and other systems. Inpreparation of the
financial reporting activities, the IPM Consultant will make maximum use o f these systems by avoiding
duplication, buildingon them, and where necessary, improving them. These systems will bepractical, robust
enough to be transferable to and used by local government, and made substantially operational within 3
months o f mobilization. See reporting schedule for details. Draft MIS proposals will be prepared and
submitted for BRRreview after 3 months, and subsequently implemented and updated, as needed.

Skills anticipated
Program Management; Strategic and Investment Planning; Urban and Regional Planning; Finance and
Financial management; Community and Social Development; Engineering and procurement skills;
Information and systems specialist; ProgrammingandProject Planning; Communications specialist.



                                                       96

Task 3 Review of local and provincialgovernments' reconstruction ulans and priority uroiects
        -
BRRreviewsthe strategic infrastructureplans and priority projects prepared by the 14local andprovincial
governments covered by this TA project to ensure that they match BRR's overall strategic plan mentioned
above. The remaining local governments in Aceh and Nias will also submit development plans, which will
only be evaluated on the basis o f the investments' strategic value to the overarching reconstruction program.
Uponreview o f these local andprovincial plans, BRRwill determine whether or not to approve any o f these
individual infrastructure projects plans and whether to allocate some o f its own funds to implement these
projects. It i s possible that local and provincial governments may submit specific projects for approval by
BRR before having completed their strategic plans, especially in the first year of TA project
implementation. In this case, BRR will review the merits o f those projects, determine whether to approve
them, and whether to allocate some o f its own funds to their implementation.

IPMconsultantswillundertakethefollowingactivities:

                   assist BRR develop manuals, guidelines and procedures for supporting local andprovincial
                   governments present their strategic plans (including the level o f details requested on each
                   individual project included in the plans). Such templates and guidelines will build, to the
                   maximum possible extent, on the existing processes o f BRR, reflected through Project
                   Delivery Plans for major investments (over US$s.Om);
                   assist BRR develop and implement a detailed Project Manual for local and provincial
                   governments, setting out the project cycle for infrastructure investments, including the
                   process o f drafting strategic plans and proposals, requesting finds from BRR, and the
                   monitoring and evaluation o f these projects;
                   provide a framework andprocedures for enabling local and provincial government to assess
                   economic andfinancial priorities;
                   support BRR in preparing the infrastructure budget for submission to Parliament, initially
                   for 2007, and then for each subsequent year;
                   establish and assist BRR and project owners implement in the review process value
                   management, value engineering and risk management studies and procedures for complex
                   projects. Particular attention would be given to reviewing existing hazard assessments and
                   data, determining vulnerability, assessing the need for firther assessments, and developing
                   appropriate mitigationmeasures; and
                   arrange through BRR to convene regular outreach meetings with BRR, TA providers, local
                   govemments, community committees and other stakeholders to review issues andprogress,
                   and to agree corrective measures as necessary, aimed at seeking to broaden stakeholder
                   support for the BRRreconstructionprogram.

Deliverables and Timing
         Project Manual by end month 3;
         Project Delivery Plans (end month 3 with quarterly updates);
         Outreach meetings (quarterly).

Skills anticiuated
Program Management; Urban and RegionalPlanning; Finance and Financial management; Community and
Social Development; Engineering and procurement skills; Programming andProject Planning

Task 4 Qualitv Assurance of BRR-financed Proiects
        -


                                                       97

Once individual local and provincial projects are approved by BRR, local or provincial governments will
prepare corresponding detailed designs and tender documents. For the projects it finances, BRR will
undertake spot checks on the quality o f project design and implementation. Any processes designed by IPM
consultants will build, to the maximum possible extent, on existingprocesses o f BRR.

IPMconsultantswill assist BRRto:
              (a) develop minimum quality standards and standardized bidding documents pertaining to
                   specific projects;
              (b) design and implementa spot checking quality function;
              (c) prepare a Quality Management strategy for approval o f BRR, and
              (d) develop and implement asset management and maintenance guidelines to ensure
                            sustainability and adequate future maintenanceo fthe projects BRR finances.

Deliverables and Timinq
        Agreed quality standards and spot checking methodologies documented by endmonth 4, as part of
        Reconstruction ProgramProgress Report;
        Quality Management strategy developed by end o f month 4;
        Asset Management Guidelines agreed (end month 3) and implemented (end month 6).

Skills anticipated
Program Management; Finance and Financial management; Community and Social Development;
Engmeering andprocurement skills; ProgrammingandProject Planning.

Task 5 Procurement support and capacitybuilding
        -
BRR is responsible for setting up adequate procurement to ensure the effective implementation o f the
projects that it finances. IPMconsultants will provide advice and support to BRR inthis area, both for BRR-
financed investments/projects, and to the extent possible for infrastructure investments funded and
implemented by others. The main objective o f the support i s to assist in delivering the urgent needs by
assisting to implement procurement in BRR and local government in the short term, while developing the
capacity o f local governments to carry procurement inthe long term.

A central procurement advisory team will be located within BRR, supported by the IPM, responsible for
undertaking the bulk o f procurement activities during the first 1.5 years o f implementation o f the IPM
assignment; procurement responsibility will then be passedto local governments ina phased manner.

Tasks of the IPMteamwill include the following:

              (a) conduct procurement capacity assessments o f the local and provincial governments and,
                   based on these assessments, develop and execute procurement training programs to build
                   capability duringthe first 1.5 years;
              (b) provide direct support to BRRandlocal government procurement activities duringthe first
                   1.5 to 2 years;
              (c) assist BRR transfer procurement activities-to the local and provincial governments in
                   stages, and then take on a monitoringrole, accordingto predeterminedbenchmarks;
              (d) develop andimplement Action plansto enable local governments to take ownership by the
                   end o f the IPM assignment, o f most procurement activities for BRR investments with
                   minimalintervention by the IPMprocurement team;
              (e) identify and agree with BRR, alternate and appropriate procurement procedures and
                   regulations for each set o f investments;



                                                        98

             (f) prepare standard documentation for international and national procurement o f goods and
                 services based, depending on sources o f funding, on BRR/National/World Bank guidelines
                 for procurement contracts and assist BRR to carry out the prequalification award process
                 includingassist BRRwithnegotiation ofthe contracts;
             (8) provide coordination and guidance on procurement, contract packaging and bid
                 documentation for other funding agencies;
             (h) recommend the contract packaging anddetailed strategy of the work to be carried out for
                 BRR for the optimum delivery o fthe program. The contract packaging will consider to the
                 extent possible the use and development o f the local consultant and construction industry.
                 Procurement strategies will seek to achieve economies o f scale, and build in incentives for
                 early completionwhile achieving quality goals; and
             (i)designimplementationfordifferentsourcesoffimdingandimplementationmechanisms.

Deliverablesand Timing

        Training program delivered to BRR & all local governmentsby end month 6;
        Standard documentation and procurement methods for BRR funded and all government funded
        investments agreed anddistributedby end month 4;
        Standard documentation and procurement methods for NGO funded infrastructure related
        investments agreed anddistributed by end month 4;
        Infrastructure ProgramContract packaging agreed and discussed by end month 6;
        The above items updated on a 6 monthly basis;
        Reporting on the above deliverables incorporated into monthly Reconstruction Program Progress
        Report.

Skills anticipated

Program Management; Finance and Financial management; Community and Social Development;
Engineering and procurement skills; Programmingand Project Planning.

Task 6 Safeguard support and capacitvbuilding
        -
BRR requires that its projects meet all social and environmental safeguards requirements. BRR is
responsible, inparticular, for: (i)
                                  developing overall processes to ensure that all safeguards requirements are
met; (ii)screening o f projects to determine whether they trigger the implementation o f specific safeguards
requirements; (iii)ensuring that any safeguards-related studies or assessments are performed by an
independent consultant; (iv) supervising implementation o f such assessments and studies on a spot-check
basis. BRR will also provide fundingto contract consultants to execute safeguards studies as necessary.

The IPMsafeguards team will be responsible for undertaking the following activities:

             (a) provide advice to BRR on all safeguards-related issues and will be responsible for assisting
                 BRRinacquiring the expertise requiredto draft any safeguards-related actionplans.
             (b) prepare an Environmental Management strategy for approval o fBRR;
             (c) engage additional and specialist consulting support to prepare all required social and
                 environmental studies (AMDAL, UKL/UPL,and LARAF');
             (d) arrange for all projectshnvestments to put acceptable safeguard policies in place, with
                 respect to nationalpoliciesand source o f funding;
             (e) award and manage an annual renewable contract to a firm(s) with a proven track record in
                 carrying environmental and social assessments to GO1 and World Bank standards, for



                                                     99

                 investment and projects which will be finded through the MDF ( these would require
                processinginaccordance withWorld Bank Safeguardpolicies and procedures);
             (f) encourage the establishment o f partnerships with local organizations (NGOs and academic
                 institutions) to carry out field research functions; and
             (g) ensure that systems are incorporated into all contracts and contract documentation within
                 the scope o f work o f this program to ensure that Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
                 operate in accordance with international and local regulations and accepted quality
                 management and safeguard requirements intheir contracts.



Deliverablesand timing

        Draft an Environmental Management strategy for approval o fBRR;
        Prepare andprocess Environmental and Social SafeguardAssessment Reports as required.

Skills anticipated

ProgramManagement; Environment Safeguards; Social Safeguards; Community and Social Development;
Engineering andprocurement skills; Programmingand Project Planning

Task 7 Anti-corruptionsupport and capacitybuilding
       -
BRR will be tasked with enforcement of the project's anti-corruption action plan to reduce leakages of
resources and assure transparency. Systems should allow for both upfront and stage payments to ensure
Contractor liquidity.In general, and where possible, priority will be given to local Acehenese Contractors.
Programs for the planning, design and construction o f infrastructure, which involve the creation o f assets
should be undertakenwith full local government involvement at all stages.

To support thisBRRmandate, the IPMconsultant will be responsiblefor the following activities:

             (a) establish procedures and systems to ensure national and international standards o f
                 accountability and transparency;
             (b) assist BRR in enhancing its existing complaints handling mechanism for BRR-financed
                 projects to track and resolve gnevances reported by communities affected by the
                 infrastructure works duringthe investment phase; and
             (c) review programs funded by BRR and all other infrastructure providers, assessing plans
                 made and proposals for creating capacity as part o f the program. Identify gaps, and
                 development and arrange implementation by the respective funding agency o f appropriate
                 integral capacity buildingprograms for long term infrastructure management.

Deliverablesand Timing

    0   National and international standards o f accountability andtransparency drafts by end month 3;
    0   Dissemination strategy for the above by end month 4;
        Follow up on the above: ongoing;
    0   Capacity BuildingGap identification, andremedial planend month4;
        Ongoing implementation o f Capacity Remedial Plan.




                                                        100

Skills anticipated

Program Management; Finance and Financial management; Community and Social Development;
Engineering andprocurement skills; ProgrammingandProject Planning.

Task 8 Managementof other componentsof the proDosedproiect
        -
BRR is tasked with managing the work programs, performance, and outputs of the consultants that will
assist with implementation o f the other components o f the proposed project, namely: West Coast
Infrastructure and Services Planning and Design; Nias Infrastructure and Services Planning and Design;
Strategic InfrastructurePlanning and Design; and FinancialManagement o fBRR-financedprojects.

To executethistask,the IPMconsultantwill beresponsibleto:

             (a) prepare a consolidated program for the implementation of the REP, and other major
                 technical assistance programs; and
             (b) assist BRR incarryingout management o fthe IREPand conduct any assessmentsor audits
                 necessary to ensure the quality of the performance o f the other TA components.

DeliverablesandTiming

         Regular monthly updates incorporated as part o f ReconstructionProgramProgress Report

Skills anticipated

Program Management; Financial Management; Community and Social Development; Transportation and
Highways; Municipal Engineering; Procurement.

B.         West CoastInfrastructurePlanning,Design, and ConstructionSupervision(US$lO million)

Detailed scope o f work. Implementation o f priority works should start as soon as feasible upon the
Consultant's mobilization. The Consultant's first 6 months may not rigidly mirror the proposedproject cycle
(see Annex 1) as Consultants will utilize preexisting resources (plans, studies, project documents, etc) to
deliver investments that are recognized as strategic priorities. The consultants will need to adopt flexible,
creative, and pragmatic approaches. To the extent possible, specific responsibilities o f the consultant are
described below.

The programis dividedintopreparation(TasksI,II, m)andinvestmenttasks (Tasks I V & V).
                                                          &




                                                      101

Task I-FieldAssessments

Data Collection
The Consultant shall immediately collect and vet data that are relevant to the assignment. The BRR will
provide the Consultant with copies o f progress/stocktaking reports, all available base maps and aerial
photography (digital form). Some topographic mapping may be available. The consultant should identify
all communities that already have spatial and infrastructure plans, and examine their status and quality of the
materials. The Consultant team should also examine existing natural hazard maps to determine whether the
project will be implemented inan area vulnerable to natural hazards, such as floods, earthquakes, landslides,
etc.

The Consultants will coordinate with and obtain information on the relevant programs o f the key
NGO/donors already working in the project area, especially those involved in housing settlements and
infrastructure. All o fthis data shouldbe cataloged, and findings shared with the BRR and IPMconsultants.

The Consultant will need to assess the availability, obtain copies of, and review key district government
planning documents, where feasible and when available.        Results will be cataloged and shared with the
BRR. Important documents the Consultant should target include; Renstra Strategis (Five-year Strategic
Plan), PPJM-Perencanca Pembangunan Jangka Menengah (Medium-term Development Plan), Pola Dasar
Pengbangunan (Twenty-Development Framework),              and Rencana Pembangunan Satahun (Annual
Development Plan). Many o f these documents were made before the tsunami. Although most o f the
materials will be outdated and with varying quality and utility-the Consultant will determine which aspects
(district vision for development, priority investments, etc) o f these documents are still applicable in the
current context. The local government counterparts will assist the Consultant to verify that existing plans
still have `buy-in' from community stakeholders. By the time o f consultant mobilization, some district level
project prioritization work may be advanced. The Consultant should draw on existingwork and established
systems when still applicable, but will realistically have to fill in gaps to implement the program.       The
Consultant should provide professional advice to local governments on areas such as the overall feasibility
andpriorities o fprojects based on technical, economic, and sustainability criteria.

InstitutionalAssessment
The consultant will undertake a preliminary institutional analysis o f each o f the local governments in the
project area. The assessment will evaluate current capacity for infrastructure delivery, on-going activities,
and obvious areas requiring further support. This assessment will be at outline level, only in order to (i)
provide a first view o f the scale o f capacity building needs o f individual districts and as a group, (ii)
determine strategies and approaches for best interacting with each local government, and (iii) theidentify
relative strengths o f local governments and how they can be integrated with implementation o f the TA
program. After the consultants first 6 months, the institutionalassessment should be updated and prepared
inmore detail to formthebasis for preparationofPhaseV -CapacityBuildingworks.

Task I1 Planning,Prioritization,and Selection
         -

Upon mobilization the Consultant will work on two initiatives in parallel, the (i)  Immediate Infrastructure
Project Plan (IPP) and the (ii)  Annual Investment Plan(AIP).The Consultant will use findings from Task I
(Field Assessments) and work closely with local governments and the BRR to develop criteria, prioritize,
and select projects. Both the local government and the BRR must approve all projects within the IIPP and
AIP before they can be implemented. IPPs and AIPs will be made for each district government in the
project area - both may be submitted to the BRR on a rolling basis upon completion (as opposed to
bundlingall districtplans together) to expeditethe process.


                                                      102

ImmediateInfrastructureProjectPlan (IIPP)
The Consultant will use its field assessments and selection criteria to quickly identify projects that are
priorities o f local governments, and BRR, and local stakeholders for inclusion into an Immediate
InfrastructureProjectPlan(IIPP).

The intention o f the IIPP i s that the Consultant will immediately start preparation o f select strategic projects
for construction start with the first 6 months o f mobilization. Both the local governments andthe BRR must
agree on the projects. The Consultant shall provide professional guidance and review existing planning,
project selection, and preparation works o f the local governments, the BRR, or other organization. Selected
projects should be non-contentious (low safeguards risks, widespread acceptance by local stakeholders, etc),
ideally be priority investments supporting the housingand shelter programs, and/or provide immediate relief
to communities still suffering from damages from the disaster. The IIPP shall be developed in close
coordination with the local governments.

The Consultant should balance the investments in the IIPP equitably within the West Coast program area.
IIPP projects will be implemented inparallel with preparation o f the Annual Investments Plans (AIPs) that
willbepreparedmore closely following the PDCS-West Coast Project Cycle (Annex 1).

The IlpP will contain an initial estimate o f the cost o f the works, project descriptions, rational for inclusion
in the IIPP, schedule of works, and expected impactshenefits. The consultant will submit the IIPP to the
local government for approval, then to the BRR. Once cleared by the BRR, procurement o f contractors for
IIPP projects can begin.        The first IIPP should be submitted to the BRR for review 2 months after
mobilization.

AnnualInvestmentPlan (MP)
The consultants will work closely with the district governments (Office of the Bupati, Bappeda, Public
Works, and other relevant agencies) and BRR to analyze alternatives, prepare feasibility studies, and
identify priority investments for each o f the district governments inthe AIP.

The A I P s identify and evaluate the districts' priority infrastructure investments to support Initiative 1
infrastructure. Infrastructure under Initiatives 2, 3, 4, & 5 are under the scope o f other consultancies under
the I M P framework.23 The AIP will recommend the investments best suited for funding support from the
BRR, and those, which should be developed and financed by the local government, province, or other
sources o f support such as NGOs or donors. AIP projects supported by the BRR must be coordinated with,
and fit within the BRR's REP framework.

AIP projects should be at the kabupaten level, but in some cases it may be sensible and cost effective to
include some sub-district investments. Inthese cases, sub-district investments will need to be coordinated
closely withinthe BRR with the Office o f the Deputy o f Housing and Settlements.

The BRR (through the Chief o f the IREPPMU) and IPMconsultants will develop the format and guidelines
o f the AIP, as well as the general criteria for AIP projects to be funded by the BRR. In general, the
expected content o f the AIP will be to provide all agreed infrastructure locations, key levels, proposed
layout o f services (roads, water distribution system, drainage system, IT and electricity distribution system
etc.) as well as (i)  design parameters to be used in the DED, (ii) o f any recommended phasing,
                                                                             details
showing clearly the first phase works, (iii)    recommended procurement and implementation proposals and
schedules, (iv) initial capacity buildingneeds for sustainable operation and maintenance o f the systems (v)


23The Infrastructure Rehabilitation Enabling Program( I M P ) consists of the InfrastructureProgram Management,
PDCS-Nias, and Strategic Infrastructure consultants.


                                                         103

an updated capital cost estimate o f the recommended works and an estimate o f the recurrent annual
operation and maintenance costs, and (v) a feasibility study when required. The AIP i s submitted to the
district government for approval, and then to the IREP PMU.

Environmental and social screening o f `approved' AIP (and IIPP) sub-projects will be carried out by the
IREP P M U in order to determine what technical documents are required. The BRR will be responsible for
screening supported by IPMteam safeguards specialists reviewing all projects submitted. Screening results
will be formally communicated to the respective local governments and to relevant local environmental
authority. The Consultant (supported by the local governments) will be responsible for preparingrequired
technical documents (LARAP, AMDAL, DED, etc).               It is expected that approximately 10-15% o f the
projects prepared under this TA will require AMDAL and/or LARAP, and that a further 40-50% will
require UKLKJPLand/or abbreviated LARAP.

The BRR's Infrastructure Board within the IREP PMU will review the AIPs (with support from the IPM
consultants). The first round o f AIPs (already approved by local governments) should be submitted on a
rolling, `as ready,' basis within 3 months o f mobilization. AIPs will be updated every six months to adjust
for changes inthe implementation schedule, or to initiate new programs. The Deputy o f Infrastructure/Chief
Operating Officer o f the BRR will approve the individual projects to be supported. Once projects are
approved, the BRR Infrastructure Procurement Committee will initiateprocurement (expressions o f interest,
etc) in a parallel process, while the consultant prepares the detailed engineering designs and tender
documents (DED&TD),

Task I11 ProiectPreparation
          -

DetailedEngineering Designs and Tender Documents (DED& TD)
The Consultant will be responsible to prepare detailed engineering designs and tender documents (DED &
TD) for all o f the approved works inthe IIPPs and AIPs supported under IREP. This includes, preparation
o f detailed specifications, bill o f quantities for civil works, schedule o f requirements for goods, tender
drawings and contract documentation inaccordance with Indonesian National, Provincial and other relevant
standards guidelines and instructions. The IPMconsultant will support coordination and harmonization o f
standards and technical solutions to facilitate operations and maintenance, considering the tradition o f poor
maintenance.

Review and final approval o f all required environmental and social studies will be a precondition for
completion o f detailed design, which will have to demonstrate how social and environmental mitigation has
beenhandled, and possibly integrated into detailed project designs. The BRRwill review and sign off on all
completed DED & TDs, including further safeguards review to ensure key impacts identified have been
adequately addressed.

Duringdetailed engineering design, the consultant will undertakethe necessary field studies and document
preparation activities, including refinement as needed to the proposed list o f IIPP & AIP approved projects,
required environmental and social work, and preparation o f detailed engmeering and bidding documents.
These activities should be carried out by field supervision teams in the most cost-effective manner. The
activities to be covered duringthe detailed engineering phase o f the assignment include:

              (a) review and finalization o f IIPP and AIP works plans, including review and updating o f
                  preliminary engineering reports, economic evaluation, and social and environmental
                  screening o f approved projects;
              (b) preparationofenvironmental/safeguardsdocuments, includingLARAPsandAMDALs;
              (c) social assessment and preparation o f resettlement action plans (RAPS)and ethnic minority
                  development plans (EMDP/IPDP), as determined are needed;


                                                       104

             (d) topographic surveys;
             (e) for roads, material source surveys locating sites o f borrow pits and aggregate quarries,
                 identification o f sufficient quantity and quality o f each fill and aggregate materials at
                 economic haul distance, and carrying out laboratory testing as required to ensure that
                 identifiedmaterials meet design specifications;
             (0 geological andsoil investigations; includingfoundation investigation asrequiredfor design
                 for bridges and culverts, soil sampling and testing for roads and and other tests as needed
                 for professional detailed engineering design o f works;
             (8) hydrological investigations and calculations as required for bridge, culvert and drainage
                 design includingreview o f existing hydrological data, meteorological data, and carryingout
                 additional hydrological survey ifnecessary;
             (h) detailed, safe, economic, complete engineering design for IREP supportedroads and short
                 bridges (<25 meters), including detailed design o f vertical and horizontal alignments, cross
                 sections, , pavement structures; drainage, culverts and other structures such as retailing
                 walls, causeways, river training and river bank protection and approaches; andpreparation
                 o f all related detailed engineering drawings and setting out data;
             (i)preliminarypreparationofconstructionmethodsandschedulesasbasesforcostestimates,
                 and identification o f critical equipment/personnel needs for quality works, packaging o f
                 works, and schedules;
             (i) preparation ofdetailed cost estimates, includingpreparationof detailed analysis of inputs
                 and prices for items such as labor, materials, equipment, tax, overhead, profit, etc,
                 breakdown o f the foreign currency and local currency requirements, and preparation o f the
                 relateddisbursement schedules;
             (k) preparation o f complete biddingdocuments following applicable World Bank or National
                 Standard Bidding Document specifically detailing how design standards will be met and
                 quality assured by the contractor;
             (1) preparation o f updated capital cost estimates o f the DED works and an estimate o f the
                 recurrent annual operation and maintenance costs;
             (m)preparation o f a DEDReport (i)      summarizing the main points o f the DED, including any
                 variation(s) from the AIP recommendations with justification for the variation(s) (ii)
                 recommendations for the provision o f local technical support for supervision o f
                 construction o f the works giving details o f staff time inputs, level o f experience required
                 andterms o freference;
             (n) coordination withthe IREPPMUfor tendering ofworks asrequired.

Task IV   -- ConstructionSupervision
The Consultant will be responsible for construction supervision o f the civil works under IREP, and
specifically to act as the "EngineerKontracts Manager" as defined in the construction contract documents.
The Consultantsbroadresponsibilities include:

             (a) provision o f documents and support as required for the efficient competitive procurement
                 by BRR / IPMconsultant o f studies, equipment and construction works following World
                 BankProcurement Guidelines or BRR'sProcurement Guidelines, whichever is applicable;
             (b) ensuring contractual establishment o f contractors and supervision consultants on sites
                 including appropriate staff, equipment, laboratories and other facilities for contractual work
                 capacity and quality. Projects will be supervised directly by the Consultant;
             (c) development o f a format for a Monthly Construction Progress Report (MCPR) to monitor
                 the physical and financial progress o f the works. The BRR and IPM consultants shall
                 approve the MCPR format, and the Consultant shall train appropriate personnel how to
                 prepare and submit the report;


                                                       105

             (d) participation inmonthly meetings arranged and attended bythe BRR,the local government,
                   and the construction contractor(s) to discuss progress o f each contract package and other
                  issues to be addressed. The Consultant shall prepare and submit meetingminutes for each
                   monthly meeting;
             (e) establishment o f appropriate quality monitoring and reporting procedures and develop
                   contractors' quality assurance/ quality control systems;
             ( f ) review o f each contractor's MCPR and prepare a summary for all contracts; and
             (g) preparation o f Final Engineering Reports, including review for accuracy the 'As Built'
                   drawings prepared by the Contractor, and for all the works prepare progress reports for
                   each contract in a form acceptable to the BRR. These reports will include, at a minimum,
                   details o f the physical and financial status o f each contract, details o f delays and the
                   budgetary effect o fparticular problems with suggested solutions.

During construction supervision the Consultant will supervise a team consisting o f the appropriate
professional skills as mentioned inthejob descriptions. Their scope o f activities generally follows:

             (a) provision o f such information as i s necessary for the Contractor to set out the works and
                   check that the setting out is correct;
             (b) review and approval o fthe Contractor's work proposals, working drawing etc. to the extent,
                   required by the contract, advise modifications where necessary and approve these
                   proposals;
             (c) review and approval o f the Contractor's work program and, where necessary, request
                   revisions o f these to account for the current status o f the works, ensure adherence to the
                   construction schedule;
             (d) agreement with the Contractor on systems o f measurement for interimpayment certificates
                   and verify the quantities for such certificates;
             (e) recommendations to the BRR on the Contractor's claims for additional payment, extension
                   o f time and other matters, based on the Consultant's interpretation o f the Contract
                   documents, the relevant site conditions and the Contractor's detailed submissions;
             ( f ) in the event o f variations to the works being required, preparation o f the necessary
                   documents, negotiate these with the Contractor and submit these to the BRR for approval;
             (g) through inspectors o f works and other site staff as may be required, supervision o f the day-
                   to-day operations o f the contractor to ensure quality o f workmanship and compliance with
                   the contract, including day-to-day monitoring o f environmental compliance;
             (h) maintenance of detailed daily diaries, photographs and documents concerning relevant
                   events and activities, call and keep minutes o f routine site meetings between the parties to
                   the Contract;
             (i)carrying out final inspections of the works and recommend the issue of completion
             u)    certificate;
                   checking the Contractor's final accounts and certify them correct for payment;
             (k) preparationofcompletionreports inaformacceptableto BRR,and
             (1) provisiono f any other specialized services as may be necessary and agreed upon.

Quality management i s requiredto ensure that the proposed investments are economically, financially, and
institutionally sustainable and have positive health and social impacts. The overall BRR (and specifically
IREP) program execution shall be monitored with the support o f a Management Information System (MIS)
administered by the IREP IPM consultant. The Consultants will work closely with the BRR and IPM
consultant on all aspects o f quality control, including:
    ensuring infrastructure components included in the Annual Investment Plan follow the BRR and IPM
    consultants guidelines on meeting economic, social, and environmental criteria, and also equitable




                                                         106

     distribution between districts, connectivity, and integration with the housing program, peach process,
     andeconomic development;
     ensuring that appropriate bidding documents for civil works and goods, and TORSfor consultant
     services are used;
     introducing quality assurance systems, incentives, penalties, technical audit, extended guarantee and
     maintenance periods, andperformance based maintenancecontracts; and
     establishing appropriate quality monitoring andreportingprocedures.
Task V Capacitv Building
          -

The current capacities o f the district governments inthe project area are low, and vary between districts. It
i s anticipated that at the beginning o f this project, the consultant and BRR will play a greater role in
provision o fthe district level infrastructure. Local governments have expressed the importance and need for
increasing capacity.    It is a goal o f the BRR and the IREP program to incrementally transfer greater
responsibilities (in planning, budgeting, procurement, construction management, and operations and
maintenance) from the BRR to the local governments over the three-year period o f this program in
preparation o f the BRR's departure. The capacity building program will be divided into three tasks, (i)
`teaming-up' transfer o f knowledge, (ii)  capacity buildingpreparation, and(iii)implementation.

Due to the urgency of expediting projects (to support the escalating housingprogram), the consultant will
adopt a pragmatic `learning by doing' approach for increasing the capacity o f local governments. The
Consultant will use the Outline InstitutionalAssessment (prepared inTask I) find opportunities to `team-
                                                                                to
&withlocalgovernment staff, utilizingtheir existingskillsto engagethem(however feasible) intothe
project. For example, staff from the district public works office could work with the consultant's design
team to prepare projects and while transferring skills and knowledge from the Consultant on current best
practices.   The Consultant should highlight in its Monthly, and Annual Status Reports collaborative
`teaming-up' arrangements it has developed.           The Consultant should seek ways o f engaging local
government at the start, and increasing activities throughout the project.

The Consultant will use the Final InstitutionalAssessment to identify the relative strengths and weakness o f
district governments to'prepare a program for cauacitv building;training and organizational strengthening.
Based on the expected IREP works program, and anticipated needs after the BRR's departure - the
consultant will recommend areas for targeted training. These recommendations will be submitted (as an
annex to the Final Institutional Assessment) to the BRR and IPM consultants.           The Consultants will
coordinate with the BRIUIREPconsultants to develop local government capacity buildingprograms. Where
key gaps exist, The Consultant will recommend specific programs in the areas o f planning, budgeting,
revenue improvement, procurement, safeguards preparation, operations and maintenance, for example.

The Consultant will coordinate and implement the capacity buildingtraining programs. Programs should
start within 9 months o f the Consultants mobilization. Local governments will be expected to contribute
budget for trainings, with other sources o f fundingfrom provincial and central government. The Consultant
should develop partnershipswithNGOs and donors already involved inlocal government capacity building.
Programs should be conducted locally to maximize IREPprogram funds.




                                                       107

                              ANNEX12: QUALITY ENHANCEMENT             STRATEGY



An overarching objective o f the REP is to improve the quality o f all aspects of BRR's infrastructure
reconstruction program, including project selection, procurement engineering, construction management,
and capacity building, and to ensure long term maintenance o f assets after hand-over o f infrastructure
project management to local governments. To ensure that this quality enhancement strategy i s followed
throughout the project cycle, the IPMteam will monitor progress, including the quality, quantity, andtiming
of investments, against set targets and standards established as part o f its management information system
(MIS). This reporting will cover the procurement and execution o f studies, technical designs,
implementation o f infrastructure works, and the official procedures for handing over constructed
infrastructure to local governments. Details o f the IREP approach to quality enhancement are summarized
below.

Project selection. The IPM, West Coast, and Nias consultants will assist BRR to assure good practice i s
applied in prioritization o f projects so that the sub-projects financed both consist o f and are properly timed
with BRR's strategic plan, local development needs, and the capacities o f local governments. An ongoing
consultative process will be established to support local governments to ensure close coordination between
local government and BRR staff and consistency among various plans. The selection process will be
enhanced through the refinement o f established BRR procedures and evaluation criteria. Selection may be
based on multiple criteria, such as economic (e.g., SK77 for roads), social and environmental, distribution
between districts, connectivity and integration with the housing reconstruction program, and economic
development objectives.

Procurement and contract awarding. To address the issue o f transparent and efficient procurement, a central
procurement team will be established within BRR to facilitate the process o f procuring the various
infrastructure projects identifiedandpreparedunder the IREP. The IPMconsultant team will be responsible
for assisting this central procurement team to ensure Go1and World Bank standards are followed. The IPM
team will also support the PMU's contract management system. Cost-effectiveness will be ensured through
competitive bidding for services, works and goods using standard bidding documents that clearly specify
standards and quantities, as well as consultants' and contractors' competencies and critical resources
required for delivering the services, works and goods to meet contractual quality standards in a timely
manner. Anti-corruption support will be included to enhance BRR's already well-developed efforts in this
regard. The IPMwill also work with BRR as needed to improve their standard biddingdocuments for works
to ensure proper incentives for contractors and independent supervision o f works exist.

Design and engineering. Under the IREP, the design o f infrastructure shall meet national and international
standards, be cost-effective, and ensure safe, economic, user friendly operations and maintenance. With
regardto roads, specific attention is required to road safety and road pavement design to ensure that total
transport costs are minimized during the lifespan o f the road. The quality o f design and works has been
neglected in some cases, and this topic may require special efforts by the consultants to reach full
understanding with and support from government institutions and the construction industry. Introduction o f
quality assurance measures, such as incentives, tough penalties, technical audits, extended guarantee and
maintenance periods, will be encouraged when suitable.

The IMP, West Coast, and Nias consultants will assist BRR to assure national and BRR quality standards
for various sub-projects are applied. The quality o f individualprojectpreparation- inparticular the drafting
of detailed designs andtender documents, and safeguards, will also be supported. The West Coast, Nias, and
Strategic Projects consultants will help relevant government bodies with project preparation, while IPM



                                                       108

consultants will assist BRR inspot checking the quality o f project documents and inacquiring the capacity
that it needs to assist inthe preparation o f the required safeguard assessments and shdies.

Construction management. The quality o f project supervision (including construction quality) will be
directly supported inNias and West Coast by this project. The West Coast and Nias consultants will carry
out construction management and supervision to ensure the contractual establishment o f contractors on sites
with appropriate staffing, equipment, laboratories, quality assurance systems and facilities for contractual
capacity and quality implementation o f works.

The IPM consultant will further assist BRR to apply high standards in construction supervision by, for
example, assisting to set standards for qualifications o f project managers, prepare draft TORS for
supervising engmeers, improve upon BRR's standard bidding documents, etc. The IPM team will also
assist BRR's quality control and inspectorate to spot check and undertake technical audits during project
implementation and hand-over to local governments. The IPMconsultant team will monitor, and perform
technical audits to ensure compliance with agreed policies, contracts and standards. It will also verify that
foreign and local consultants have appropriate organizational set ups, qualified manpower with sufficient
resources and technical skills, and assume contractual liability for the quality and quantity control o f works
produced.

Capacity building.The REP will support capacity building activities for local and provincial government
staff to ensure adequate future operations and maintenance for infrastructure by improving capacity of
technical personnel within local governments, as well as their appointed procurement committees and site
supervision consultants. Capacity buildingactivities under IREP include the development o f technical skills
and professionalism necessary to monitor and control projects effectively. A program to support hands-on,
"leaming by doing" training o f local government technical departments and BRR staff will be an integral
part o f the REP program. In addition, the PM team will review and prepare options for simplified asset
management systems in Nias and the West Coast, which includes an assessment o f financial and human
resources needed to support management o f reconstruction assets after hand-over of infrastructure projects
from the consultant teams to the local and provincial government staff, The capacity buildingobjectives of
the IREPprogram are further elaborated inannex 5.




                                                        109

                           ANNEX 13: PROJECTPREPARATIONAND SUPERVISION


                                                           Planned             Actual
Project Concept Review by MDF                              2117/06            2117/06
Initial PIDto PIC                                           5/2/06             5/2/06
Initial ISDS to PIC                                         5/2/06             5/2/06
Appraisal                                                  3/27/06            3/27/06
BoardlRVP approval                                         5/26/06            6/30/06
Planned date o f effectiveness                             6/26/06            7/15/06
Planned closing date                                       6/26/09            6/26/09

Key institutions responsible for preparation o f the project:
1.       Agency for the Reconstruction o f Aceh and Nias (BRR)
2.       World Bank

Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:

Name                                                       Title                   Unit
Aniruddha Dasgupta            LeadUrbanPlanner, (Task Team Leader)               EASUR
MichelKerf                    Infrastructure Policy Advisor                       EASIN
Jerry Lebo                    Sr. Transport Specialist                           EASTR
Zoe Elena Trohanis            HazardRiskManagement Specialist                    TUDUR
IndiraDharmapatni             Sr. Operations Officer (resettlementlsocial)       EASUR
Yogana Prasta                 Sr. Disbursement Officer                            EACIF
ImadSaleh                     LeadProcurement Specialist                         EAPCO
UnggulSuprayitno              FinancialManagement Specialist                     EAPCO
Steven Burgess                Senior Social Development Specialist               EASSD
Melinda Good                  Counsel                                            LEGEA
Andre Bald                    Infrastructure Specialist (consultant)             EASUR
Angus Mackay                  EnvironmentAdvisor (consultant)                    EASEN
Lauren Serota                 Local Government Specialist (consultant)           EASSD
Patrisia Mulita               Governance Specialist                              EASSD
Geoffrey Read                 Municipal Infrastructure Spec. (consultant)     '  EASUR
Anders Bonde                  Transport Adviser (consultant)                     EASTR
John Cameron                  FinancialManagement Specialist (consultant)        EASUR
AlunPhillips                  Infrastructure Specialist (consultant)             EASTR
John Smithson                UrbanDrainage Specialist (consultant)               EASUR
Kalpana Seethepalli           Infrastructure Economist (consultant)               EASIN

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources:            US%85,000
     2. Trust funds:      US%45,000
    3. Total: US%130,000

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remaining costs to approval: US$50,000
    2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$125,000




                                                       110

                                     95E                                               96E                                                          INDONESIA
                                                                                                                      INFRASTRUCTURE RECONSTRUCTION AND
                                                                                                             REHABILITATION PROGRAM FOR ACEH AND NIAS

                                                                                                                                PROJECT AREAS                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                NATIONAL ROADS                                                 KABUPATEN CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                PROVINCIAL ROADS                                               PROVINCE CAPITAL
          6N                                                                                  6N                              RAILROADS                                                      KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES

                                          We                Sabang                                                                                                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARY


                                                                                                                                              97E                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                           Breueh                                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                   Banda Aceh                                                                                                              S t r a i t         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                        Lhoknga                                    Sigli                                                                                    o f
                                                        Seulimeum                           Taupingraya                Bireun              Lhokseumawe
                                                                Jantho                                  Meureudu                                            Lhok Sukon




                                                  Lamno                   Keumala                                                                                                   M a l a c c a
          5N                                                                                        Lutung                                   Cot Girek                              Peureulak                                                  5N

                                                                                                    Geumpang

                                                    Calang

                                                                                                                       Takengon                                   Peunaron
                                                                                                                                                                            Langsa
                                                                                                                        Ceulala
                                                                                                                                                  Uwak                                                 Karang Baru




                                                                                                              Jeuram
                                                                                 Meulaboh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pangkalan-
                                                                                           Kutanibong                                                           Blangkejeren                                                          brandan
          4N
                                                                                                                       Lamie


                                                                                                                        Blang Pidie


                                                                                                                                                                        Kutacane



                                                                                                                                                        Tapaktuan




                                                                                                                                                    Kandang
          3N                             Pulau-pulau
                                                   Kokos
                                                                     Lewak                                                                                       Bakungan
                                                                                     Sibigo


                                                          Simeulue
                                                                                Nasreheu                                                                                            Rundeng

                                                                                                 Inor                Sinabang

                                                                                                                                                   P. Balee
                                                                                                                       Lasikin                                      Ti. Nibong    Singkil

                                                                                                                      Lasia                                       Tuangku
                                                                                                                        Babi            Bangkaru
          2N




                    I N D I A N O C E A N


                                  95E                                             96E


                              MYANMAR                                                 Northern
                                                  VIETNAM                             Mariana
             INDIA                      THAILAND                                   Islands (U.S.)

                                             CAMBODIA                                                           MARSHALL
                                                                  PHILIPPINES             Guam (U.S.)
                                                                                                                ISLANDS

                    SRI LANKA
                                                                                                                                                   Nias
                                                      BRUNEI               PALAU
                          Area of
            MALDIVES                      M A L A Y S I A
                             Map                                                   FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA
                                                                                                                              1N                                                                                                              1N
         0                                     SINGAPORE

                                                                                                                    NAURU
                                                I N D O N E S I A
                                                                                    PAPUA
                                                                                    NEW GUINEA                  SOLOMON
                                                                   TIMOR-LESTE                                  ISLANDS

                 I N D I A N O C E A N                                                                                           0   10  20  30  40  50 Kilometers
         15S                                                                                                VANUATU                                                                                                                                IBRD

JUL
                                                                                                      New Caledonia              0     10    20     30      40      50 Miles                                                                            34927
   Y                                                               A U S T R A L I A                    (France)
    2006
                                                                                                                                            97E                                                          98E
           75E              90E            105E                                                                165E

