Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/12/2006 
Report No.:  AC2347
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Indonesia 
Project ID:  P100218 
Project Name:  Aceh-Infra. Reconstr. Enabling Program 
Task Team Leader:  Aniruddha Dasgupta 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 4, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: June 27, 2006 
Managing Unit:  EASUR 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Water supply (25%);General water, sanitation and flood protection sector 
(25%);Roads and highways (25%);Ports, waterways and shipping (25%) 
Theme:  Other urban development (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
0.00 
 SPECIAL 
FINANCING 
42.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
42.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
A
ceh’s Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency (BRR) is proposing a new strategy for 
addressing district and province level infrastructure needs.  A key feature of the strategy 
is to develop a mechanism to plan, design, finance, and oversee the construction of 
infrastructure by engaging local governments on their own infrastructure needs within a 
framework of strong planning and management. Implementation of the strategy will 
require a significant increase in BRR’s capacityto manage reconstruction activities, as 
well as the capacity of local authorities.  This project supports this capacity by providing 
world class consulting services in infrastructure program management, planning, design, 
and construction management.  The TA will be put in place in advance of funding 
arrangements for infrastructure investment which will involve establishment of a $300 
million Infrastructure Reconstruction Facility to be co-financed by the BRR and MDF.  
World Bank safeguards procedures will apply to all of this investment given that BRR 
funding will be involved.  
 
Total project cost (by component): $42.0  
 
Component A: Infrastructure Management - $19.5 million  
Page  2
Component B: West Coast Infrastructure Planning and Design - $10.0 million  
 
Component C: Nias Roads, Transport and City Development Planning and Design - 
$5.0  
 
Component D: Provincial Level Strategic Infrastructure Planning and Design - $ 6.0 m  
 
Component E: Financial Management Support - $1.5million   
 
3. Project Description 
The BRR is the Implementing Agency for this project and the World Bank will act as 
partner agency as required under MDF procedures. The main components necessary for 
attaining project objectives are grouped as follows:  
 
Component A: Infrastructure Program Management  
 
This component will finance a highly professional team to undertake Infrastructure 
Program Management of the investment and project preparation work for the overall 
Aceh reconstruction program. The IPM team will be integrally linked to BRR and their 
work will build on existing and planned BRR systems.  Key elements will include: long 
term programming; capital works programming; program management and budget 
monitoring; procurement, safeguards and financial control; and local government 
capacity building.  Given limited LG level budget for commissioning safeguards studies, 
this component will allocate $1.0 million for contracting additional consulting services to 
carry out all necessary environmental and social studies (AMDAL, UKL, LARAP).  
 
Component B: West Coast Infrastructure Planning and Design  
 
This component will finance a technical team to undertake the planning and project 
preparation work for the West Coast logistical area (Aceh Jaya, Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, 
Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singil and Simeulue).  The assignment will require 
a
project team committed for a 3 year period, with skills in infrastructure planning and 
program management, institutional design and implementation methods of essential 
services delivery, technical design and procurement, construction planning and 
management, and construction supervision.  The team will work integrally with local 
Government based in the field, with three technical working groups, each based in 
Calang, Meulaboh and Singkil respectively.  
 
Component C: Nias Roads, Transport and City Development Planning and Design  
 
This component will finance a technical team to undertake the planning and project 
preparation work for the Nias logistical area. The assignment will require a committed 
project team for a 3 year period, with particular skills in transport and city infrastructure 
planning and program management, institutional design and implementation methods of 
essential services delivery, technical design and procurement, construction planning and 
management, and construction supervision.The team will work integrally with local 
Government and the communities, and be based in the field, with two technical working 
groups based in Gunung Sitoli and Teluk Dalam respectively.  
 
Component D: Provincial Level Strategic Infrastructure Planning and Design  
 
This component will finance a technical consulting team to undertake the formulation, 
investment planning, design and project preparation work for the major Provincial-level 
Page  3
infrastructure strategic infrastructure works which now require reconstruction. The 
detailed content is under pre identification, and will be based mainly on the work to be 
undertaken by the consultant team, in conjunction with the BRR. Investments with an 
initial estimated value of $100 million will be prepared.  
 
Component E 
–
Financial Management of BRR-financed Projects (US$1.5 million)  
 
This component will strengthen BRR’s capacity to put in place the financial 
management framework required to ensure that it meets all its fiduciary responsibilities 
with respect to this TA and other BRR investment projects. This assistance will be 
provided by experts located within BRR. Financial management of BRR-financed 
projects will include PMU and PIUs to establish and maintain financial accounting and 
monitoring arrangements for project activities undertaken and expenditures incurred at all 
project locations, including monitoring the operation of internal controls over 
implementation of the contracts. This component includes an external audit of the project 
financial statements by the country’s Supreme Audit Board (BPK).   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
From a physical environmental perspective, the project will cover all tsunami and 
earthquake affected areas in Aceh and Nias with a specific focus on the west coast of 
Aceh (including Meulaboh and Calang) and built up areas in Nias. These areas have been 
severely damaged both in terms of marine and terrestrial environments.  In many places 
coastlines have been physically altered, particularly the inter-tidal zones.  Shallow coral 
reefs have been affected resulting from the large amounts of solid waste, silts and clays 
generated by the waves.  Mud laden residues have infiltrated both man made and natural 
water sources, and blocked drainage lines. Many of the heavy clay soils that predominate 
in the coastal region have been inundated with salt water.  In Nias large tracts of coastal 
land have been lifted up and an estimated 250 ha of coral reefs are reported to have been 
destroyed.   With the loss of sea defenses previously built up areas have been reclaimed 
by the tides leading to coastal inundation and the recreation of marshy areas juxtaposed 
with human settlement.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
Page  4
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
D.1. Safeguards policies under the project will be addressed in the following manner:  
 
Safeguard policies triggered by this project include environmental assessment, 
involuntary resettlement and Indigenous Peoples. These policies are triggered by virtue of 
the fact that the project will deliver ‘finished’ projects for financing and will therefore 
have had to consider a full range of safeguards issues as part of project preparation and 
detailed design.  Key social and environmental impact areas to be considered during 
project preparation work will include:  
 
•
resource extraction impacts (primarily sourcing of sand, gravel and other quarry 
material);  
 
•
construction impacts (excavation, fuel spills, noise and dust management, 
obstruction to drainage, pollution and sedimentation of water courses);  
 
•
migrant labour related impacts (increased social tension in the community, spread 
of HIV/AIDs, â
 ¦); 
 
•
inclusion of views/needs of vulnerable groups in planning and preparation work;  
 
•
land acquisition and resettlement related impacts, with focus on 
compensationentitlements for widows and other marginal groups to ensure equitable 
treatment;  
 
•
special needs and concerns of indigenous peoples living on Nias.  
 
The approach taken by the project in addressing impacts will require the development of 
a
social and environmental framework which will provide : (i) strategic advice to BRR on 
the overall environmentally sustainability of the infrastructure development strategy; (ii) 
expertise built into the planning and design teams to assist BRR and LGs in screening 
proposed projects and to identify/mitigate likely impacts; (iii) establishment of a facility 
to carry out all required environmental and social studies to be managed by the IPM 
team; (iv) a process framework for the monitoring and management of environmental and 
social concerns during implementation of sub-projects; (v) provision of capacity building 
Page  5
to BRR and local governments; (vi) support for BRR in preparation of environmental 
guidelines and standards for infrastructure projects.  
 
The Project will be subject to the development of a short (10-15 page) orientation paper 
on environmental and social issues to inform the appraisal process, based on the 
emerging results of the Bappenas Strategic Environmental and Natural Resources 
Assessment (SENRA) Study of Aceh and Nias.  The project will not plan/prepare new 
investments likely to impact on protected forest areas.  
 
Although there are no distinct indigenous peoples in Aceh, special measures to ensure 
that particularly vulnerable groups are consulted during the preparation of individual 
investments (widows, women, single parent households, those that have lost assets and/or 
livelihoods) will be required.  By contrast, conditions in Nias are more complex.  There 
are distinct indigenous communities living in parts of the island requiring an adequate IP 
approach, including appropriate consultation arrangements, if investments are located in 
and around these areas.  Furthermore, previous experience indicates that village based 
elites tend to be particularly prone to monopolising consultative processes directed at 
project affected people, requiring additional measures to ensure that consultations are 
meaningful.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
D.2 Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area.  
 
The project area will be subject to widespread development related impacts for the next 
5-10 years. These are likely to place increasing pressure on locally available natural 
resources required for the reconstruction process (sand, gravel, quarry material), placing 
fragile and stressed environments under increasing pressure.   Related impacts include 
inflationary effects on construction materials limiting access to these resources among the 
poorest, physical environmental effects on river hydrology, slope stability and coastal 
geomorphology, and continued destruction of sensitive coastal natural habitats.  Further 
indirect impacts could include increased friction with local communities caused by 
continuing influx of local migrant labour and foreigners.  On the positive side, the effects 
of 5-10 years of reconstruction will result in high year on year growth in the local 
economy leading to increased opportunities to convert surplus cash and assets into viable 
new livelihood activities.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
D.3. Describe the treatment of alternatives (if relevant)  
 
The Infrastructure Program Management Team will provide strategic level advice to the 
BRR and local governments based on an initial assessment of programming needs.  This 
assessment will need to take account of higher order environmental and social concerns 
associated with infrastructure planning and development and, in this sense, will be able to 
address alternatives in terms of design (bridges, coastal protection, configuration of ports) 
and sequencing  Although there may be opportunities to consider alternatives in terms of 
Page  6
the location of individual projects, such alternatives will be more restricted given a 
primary focus on the replacement of pre-existing infrastructure and the need to minimize 
land acquisition.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
D.4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard issues. Provide an 
assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.  
 
Both the BRR and Local governments are poorly equipped to handle social and 
environmental issues.  Even the provincial Bapedalda is under-resourced to handle the 
current volume of new projects despite direct support being provided by the Ministry of 
Environment and a GTZ/DANIDA environmental management support program.  
Therefore it will be incumbent on the Project to ensure that all necessary safeguards 
procedures are followed during preparation work, and that a suitable mechanism is put in 
place to support post-design supervision and review also.  
 
In order to ensure full compliance with the World Bank’s environmental and social 
safeguard requirements, and based on the best-practice models in similar earthquake 
recovery operations, a Social and Environmental  Framework covering screening, 
assessment and required mitigation will be finalized during appraisal.  The framework 
will clarify where necessary resources/expertise for safeguards should be deployed within 
the IPM and geographically based consulting teams.  The main elements of the 
framework will include:  
 
•
a
staffing plan for safeguards specialists within the IPM team and geographical 
teams;  
 
•
screening of all new projects entering the pipeline for likely social and 
environmental impacts;  
 
•
consulting services to carry out all necessary project related social and 
environmental studies (AMDAL, UKL/UPL, LARAP), to be managed by BRR/IPM;  
 
•
approval of all required environmental studies by relevant local government 
authorities;  
 
•
ensuring that recommendations from social and environmental studies are 
integrated into the detailed engineering design phase and that land acquisition and 
resettlement plans are developed as required;  
 
•
tracking and monitoring system for the implementation phase of individual 
investments (prioritized towards high impact type projects), linked to the project 
monitoring database;  
 
•
a
program of training for BRR and concerned LG authorities (Bappeda, 
Bapedalda, Bina Marga â
 ¦) covering preparation and supervision phases; 
 
•
development of a policy and plan of action for extraction of materials based on 
survey and mapping of existing and potential quarry sites, development and application 
of suitable standards, and enforcement measures.  
Page  7
•
resources to help to prepare, disseminate (and provide related training on) 
guidelines to ensure environmentally sound and sustainable implementation of 
infrastructure projects – including integration into contractual documents.  
 
Infrastructure sub-projects to be prepared under this TA will not be considered complete 
until (i) mitigation plans for any associated land acquisition and resettlement are 
finalized, and (ii) the budgets for compensation of land/assets acquired are inscribed in 
the annual budget (DIPA) of the responsible agency.  All acquired land and other assets 
will be paid for at their replacement or market cost.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
D.5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.  
 
The project’s ultimate beneficiaries are the people of Aceh and Nias who will directly 
benefit from the economic effects of the rehabilitation of critical district and province 
level infrastructure resulting from this TA.  More directly the project will be providing 
support to district level planning and infrastructure authorities (Bappeda and Dinas Bina 
Marga), helping to ensure that the speed of reconstruction is increased and that an 
appropriate system of prioritization is applied.  One of the roles of the BRR supported by 
the IPM team will be to ensure broad consultation and public outreach during 
infrastructure planning and preparation phases, and to develop and instill these 
approaches within the BRR and local governments.  The ToRs for the IPM team will 
elaborate on this important task and ensure that sufficient technical capacity is included 
and financial resources allocated.  The social and environmental framework will be made 
available to the public through the Bank's Project Information Centers in Jakarta and 
Washington, and also will be published in the project manuals and be made available by 
the BRR to the participating local governments. Individual investments resulting from the 
TA requiring LARAP, UKL or AMDAL will, in any case, follow required GoI and WB 
consultation and disclosure procedures.  The safeguards framework will be discussed 
with the BRR and LG representatives prior to appraisal.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/23/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/30/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/12/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
03/23/2006  
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/23/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/23/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/12/2006 
 
Page  8
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/30/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/23/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/12/2006 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
To be completed by TTL   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
No 
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
No 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager? 
No 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
No 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
No 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
No 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
No 
Page  9
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
No 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Aniruddha Dasgupta 
03/30/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Angus Mackay 
03/30/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Asger Christensen 
03/30/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Scott E. Guggenheim 
03/30/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Keshav Varma 
03/30/2006 
Comments:   
