Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:AB2366   
Project Name 
Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program 
Region 
East Asia and Pacific 
Sector 
Urban Development 
Project ID 
P100218 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Indonesia 
Implementing Agency 
Bureau for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction for Aceh and Nias (BRR) 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
4/17/04 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
3/23/06 
Date of Board Approval 
TF to be approved by EAP RVP 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
More than a year has passed since the devastating tsunami and earthquake struck the Indian Ocean in 
December 2004. In Indonesia, the disaster killed or left missing more than 230,000 people, and destroyed 
communities, infrastructure and people’s livelihoods in mere minutes. The total reconstruction and 
development program for Aceh and Nias is estimated to cost US$8-10 billion (2005-2009), making it the 
largest reconstruction program in the developing world
1
.
In addition to the physical damage, the disaster 
caused enormous destruction of economic capacity and loss of institutional ability. These losses have not 
yet been adequately quantified, and there is an urgent need to support their restoration, thereby enabling 
those living in affected areas to advance socially and economically.  Such steps are further challenged as 
Aceh emerges from 30 years of post-conflict stress and economic neglect. 
 
The people of Indonesia and the international community have shifted from the initial emergency phase to 
the recovery phase. In April 2005, the Government of Indonesia (GoI) created a dedicated Rehabilitation 
and Reconstruction Agency - 
Badan Rehabilitasi dan Rekonstruksi 
(BRR) - to provide leadership and 
management across all aspects of recovery.   
 
Through revisions of KEPRES 80 in November 2005, BRR assumed (i) the power to implement projects 
and (ii) authority for direct contracting.
 
BRR’s new organizational structure is more decentralized, and 
will place added human resources in regional offices to accelerate housing and infrastructure programs.
 
This shift in responsibility will enable it to respond to gaps or non-responsive programs by assuming 
ownership of lagging projects as the constructor of last resort, or reassigning them to another agency. 
BRR is determined to establish capacity to implement construction projects directly as one option to meet 
emerging gaps.  Another high priority is strengthening district government systems at the 
kabupaten
 and 
kota
 levels, especially as government funds start to flow through BRR to the district and provincial levels.  
By creating capacity and ownership of projects with local officials, the BRR will be able to transfer full 
responsibility of infrastructure development to local government agencies by 2009. 
 
A
key priority for GoI, under the purview of BRR, is to rehabilitate vital infrastructure by: opening 
sustainable road and sea transportation links along the west coast; draining flooded urban areas; 
protecting communities from tidal incursion; ensuring water, sanitation, power and other essential 
1
Both physical infrastructure and staffing were very limited in Aceh and Nias before the tsunami and earthquake 
disasters. Providing adequate replacement infrastructure to meet current demand will require substantially more 
resources than replacing what was lost.   
Page  2
services are provided in tandem with new homes; and preparing a longer-term plan for infrastructure 
development with, and to be implemented by, local and provincial governments.   
 
In order to prepare infrastructure projects for implementation, a series of enabling components are in 
progress, carried out by experienced international and local consultants funded from a variety of bilateral, 
multilateral, and domestic sources. An estimated 1,000 reconstruction projects are currently underway. A 
key feature of the post-tsunami recovery is that these costs are likely to be divided roughly equal among 
the Government of Indonesia (US$2.8 billion), bilateral and multilateral donors (US$3.6 billion), and 
NGOs (US$2.5 billion). This emphasizes the importance of carefully planning and coordinating financial 
flows, rigorous technically sound and comprehensive planning and project preparation, and to the extent 
possible, integrating financing programs to ensure effective impacts. 
 
Some US$5 billion of these funds have already been committed to specific projects. This means that, to 
date, a substantial portion of the reconstruction program has already been planned, enabling the BRR to 
develop a broad picture of the existing financing gaps both from the sectoral and geographic perspectives.  
The BRR will focus on closing the sector gaps between allocated funds for infrastructure projects versus 
core minimum needs and develop the capacity to implement and coordinate this massive reconstruction 
program. Housing, communications, energy, flood control, and transport all have funding deficits. 
 
For effective management, BRR has divided the housing services and related infrastructure planning and 
reconstruction program into 5 logistical areas.  These areas comprise the following districts (
Kabupaten
), 
in order of level of damage sustained: 
 
1. 
North Coast
 (Banda Aceh, Aceh Besar and Sabang); 
2. 
West Coast
 (Aceh Jaya, Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh 
Singil and the island of Simeulue);  
3. 
Nias 
(Nias and Nias Selatan); 
4. 
East Coast
 (Pidie, Bireuen, Aceh Utara, Aceh Timur, Aceh Tamiang and 
Lhokseumawe); and, 
5. 
Middle Aceh
 (Bener Meriah, Aceh Tengah, Gayo Lues and Aceh Tenggara). 
 
Four of these areas are in Aceh Province and were primarily affected by the tsunami; the island of Nias 
(North Sumatra Province) was also greatly affected by the March 2005 earthquake. All areas are subject 
to efforts for rebuilding to improved standards. 
 
2. Objectives 
The objective of the proposed Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP) is to support the 
BRR’s strategy for district and provincial infrastructure reconstruction by providing high quality 
consulting services in infrastructure program management, planning, design, and construction 
management. To meet this challenge, the proposed technical assistance (TA) will: (i) assist the BBR in 
the strategic planning, programming and implementation of infrastructure development and 
reconstruction with a strategic Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) team; (ii) provide technical 
support and capacity building for local government staff on identification, design, commencing 
implementation, and monitoring of projects (including preparation of tender documents) in the West 
Coast of Aceh, and in Nias; (iii) give support at the provincial/national level for planning, design and 
implementation of strategic infrastructure projects not under the purview of local governments, such as 
ports, roads, and airports, major storm and drainage systems; and (iv) provide financial management 
advisory services to enable BRR to meet its fiduciary requirements. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Page  3
The BRR’s approach of utilizing available resources from the MDF in the context of its overall 
rehabilitation and reconstruction strategy will allow the identification of broad priorities, set out key 
projects that are intended to be submitted to the MDF for review over the coming year, and clarify how 
these priorities and projects fit within the broader range of activities financed from other sources. This 
project directly supports this strategy through its focus on improving infrastructure reconstruction 
support, management, and oversight to the BRR and local and provincial governments through the 
mobilization of international and national consultant services. It also focuses on the three logistical areas 
that sustained the greatest amount of damage due to the tsunami and earthquake disasters. The BRR and 
the Multi-Donor Fund (MDF) for Aceh and Nias have endorsed the project and named the Bank as 
Partner Agency to oversee development and supervision. 
 
4. Description 
This proposed MDF-funded Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP) aims to provide 
targeted technical assistance and additional human resource capacity to assist the BRR in implementing 
the investment phase of its Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy, which provides investment to targeted 
infrastructure projects. This TA will provide direct support to BRR in the form of an Infrastructure 
Program Management (IPM) team and financial management advisors; it will also support the 
appointment of technical teams that will work closely with provincial and local government agencies in 
the West Coast and Nias to build project management capacity and to prepare spatial and infrastructure 
development plans, feasibility studies, detailed designs, comprehensive procurement planning and 
support, and site supervision for reconstruction at the local level.
 
Component 1: Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) (US$19..5 million) 
This component aims at strengthening BRR’s ability to carry out program management functions by 
recruiting a core team of highly qualified experts who will be deployed within the existing BRR structure 
for infrastructure working directly with existing staff. They will provide assistance to BRR in eight 
specific areas:  
·
overall strategic infrastructure planning for Aceh and Nias, as per the BRR Infrastructure 
Reconstruction Strategy (applies to all infrastructure projects, regardless of source of financing);  
·
program management of the reconstruction process in Aceh and Nias (applies to all infrastructure 
projects, regardless of source of financing);  
·
review of local and provincial governments’ plans for infrastructure investment as a basis for 
BRR funding (applies only to infrastructure projects financed by BRR/MDF);  
·
quality control, supervision, and monitoring of BRR-funded infrastructure projects (applies only 
to infrastructure projects financed by BRR/MDF);  
·
procurement support for BRR-funded infrastructure projects (applies only to infrastructure 
projects financed by BRR/MDF);  
·
safeguard support for BRR-funded infrastructure projects (applies only to infrastructure projects 
financed by BRR/MDF);  
·
anti-corruption support for BRR-funded infrastructure projects (applies only to infrastructure 
projects financed by BRR/MDF); and  
·
support to BRR in managing the consultant teams that will assist with implementation of the 
other components of the proposed project.  
 
Component 2
:
West Coast Infrastructure Services Planning and Design (US$10 million)
 will finance 
a
technical team to undertake the planning and project preparation work for the West Coast logistical 
area
2
,
in close collaboration with the local governments and public works departments.
 
The assignment 
requires a project team with skills in infrastructure planning and program management, institutional 
2
Aceh Jaya, Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singil and Simeulue 
Page  4
design, implementation methods of essential services delivery, technical design and procurement, 
construction planning and management, and construction supervision. This team will provide assistance 
to these local governments in two main areas: (i) strategic planning; and (ii) project design, drafting of 
tender documents, and project implementation and supervision, including compliance with environmental 
and social safeguards policies. 
 
Component 3: Nias Infrastructure and Services Planning and Design (US$6 million) 
Nias Island, which lies in North Sumatra province, comprises two local governments, was most 
negatively affected
 by the earthquake that occurred on March 28, 2005. Nias’ infrastructure needs are 
particularly acute in the transport sector; district roads, bridges, ports and airports need to be rehabilitated 
and expanded due to both the damage from the disaster and from lack of adequate maintenance.  Because 
Nias is an island, and because its infrastructure needs are more exclusively centered on transport than 
those of the seven local governments of the West Coast, one component of the proposed project focuses 
specifically on the needs of Nias. By investing in this sector in Nias, it is expected to instigate renewed 
economic activity and help restore livelihoods of affected communities. 
 
Component 4: Strategic Infrastructure Planning and Design (US$5 million) 
In addition to the infrastructure projects under the direct responsibility of the local governments on the 
West Coast and on Nias, there are additional, strategic infrastructure projects that must be implemented as 
a
matter of priority and that fall under the responsibility of other local governments, of provincial 
governments, or possibly of the national government. This fourth component of the proposed project is 
designed to strengthen the ability of BRR and that of the relevant governments to carry out the 
identification and appraisal of these strategic infrastructure projects. This assistance will be provided by 
experts who will work closely with the relevant governments.  
 
Component 5: Financial Management of BRR-Financed Projects (US$ 1.5 million) 
BRR needs to put in place an efficient financial management (FM) framework required to ensure that it 
meets all its fiduciary responsibilities with respect to the projects it finances. This component of the 
proposed project is designed to strengthen BRR’s capacity in this respect. This assistance will be 
provided by FM experts located within BRR. The FM consultants will assist BRR with all aspects of its 
financial management function. Financial management of BRR-financed projects will include, inter alia: 
(i) ensuring that all conditions have been met before authorizing payment to contractors upon signature of 
their contracts (e.g., verifying that proper contract documentation has been provided and that an adequate 
project implementation unit exists within the government body responsible for managing project 
implementation); and (ii) checking that contractually agreed milestones have been reached before 
authorizing payment to contractors during the course of project implementation.  
 
5. Financing 
 
Component MDF 
Request 
US$m 
Infrastructure Program Management 
19.5
West Coast Infrastructure Planning 
&
Design 
10.0
Nias Roads, Transport & City 
Development Planning & Design 
5.0
Strategic Infrastructure Planning & 
Design 
6.0
Financial Management of BRR
-
1.5
Page  5
financed Projects 
Total
42.0
6. Implementation 
During project implementation, BRR will establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) to coordinate and 
oversee day-to-day implementation of the TA at the macro level, which includes management of the 
Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) team, donor coordination, procurement practices, safeguards 
policies, fiduciary management of BRR investments, monitoring of project progress, and the development 
of a strategic infrastructure reconstruction plan covering all disaster-affected areas of Aceh and Nias. 
BRR has proposed to appoint the Vice Deputy of Infrastructure I as Chief of the PMU, who will also 
serve as Project Manager of the IPM team. Sitting within the PMU will be an IREP Secretariat, 
responsible for daily work to support the functions of the PMU. A full-time Chief of PMU Secretariat will 
be appointed to administer the Secretariat work program and staff. BRR will be responsible for equipping 
the Secretariat with qualified personnel and support staff.
 
The three TA components focused on implementation at the local and provincial levels will be carried out 
in partnership with local public works staff (PU). The consultant teams will be based in local government 
offices to build capacity of local staff in areas of strategic project identification, design, implementation 
and supervision, and maintenance. As local governments are in the process of identifying critical 
infrastructure projects and completing their annual strategic infrastructure plans, the PU staff will 
coordinate with and incorporate feedback from both Bappeda officials and the Bupati/Walikota. This 
process will integrate donor consultations as well as the views and inputs of affected communities. The 
Bupati/Walikota will coordinate directly with BRR’s Executive Board throughout this process. The 
consultant team working with the local and provincial governments will report directly to its respective 
Project Manager within the PMU, which is supported by IPM consultants. 
 
The progress of the project will be monitored by the BRR Infrastructure Board (IB), which is comprised 
of Deputy Directors of Housing, Finance, Strategic Planning, Local Government Institutional 
Empowerment, and Infrastructure. The Deputy of Infrastructure serves as both board chair and as Chief 
Operating Officer (COO) of the program. The IB discusses issues related to donor coordination, progress 
monitoring of the reconstruction program, and resolves multisectoral issues. The Board will meet monthly 
during the first few months of project implementation to provide additional oversight, and then will hold 
bimonthly meetings for the duration of project implementation. 
 
7. Sustainability 
This project takes into account several factors to ensure sustainability of the reconstruction process in 
Aceh and Nias. The project design takes into account: 
·
prioritization of reconstruction projects by local governments and communities 
·
the importance of high quality standards for design and supervision of infrastructure systems 
·
the incorporation of adequate safeguards to ensure minimal negative environmental and social 
impacts on affected communities 
·
the demand for improved technical designs and plans for sustainable infrastructure reconstruction 
·
the need for local governments to develop capacity to accept responsibility for operation and 
maintenance of infrastructure interventions 
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations  
According to the December 2005 report 
Aceh and Nias One Year After the Tsunami: The Recovery Effort 
and Way Forward,
 and from experiences implementing projects during the first phase of the BRR 
Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy, several pertinent lessons have been learned by those working to 
facilitate the recovery process. The design of the project takes into account the following: 
Page  6
·
The need for supplemental capacity in the BRR to implement and supervise infrastructure 
projects.
 Although BRR has developed extremely quickly, it has not yet adapted to the detail of 
project management in its widest sense. Both the BRR’s Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy 
and this project are wide-ranging in scope and geographic coverage. The management and 
technical expertise required to implement the Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy, develop a 
strategic vision for long-term infrastructure reconstruction, and monitor project outcomes can 
only be mobilized by engaging international consultants. This additional support will also ensure 
that high-quality plans, designs and construction standards are integrated and implemented during 
reconstruction. 
·
Local governments must identify their own priorities within a framework of good practice. 
 
Infrastructure projects will be prioritized by local and provincial governments, which will be 
reviewed by the Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) team within the BRR to ensure 
quality control and consistency within the broader infrastructure reconstruction program for Aceh 
and Nias. Projects will be based upon technical plans and designs developed by a professional 
spatial planning and engineering design teams that work closely with local planning authorities. 
Local and provincial government staff will learn good management and oversight processes 
through action learning as they work with the consultant teams. This method will help localize the 
reconstruction strategy level and create ownership of the infrastructure reconstruction and 
development. 
·
Coordination across development partner and government reconstruction programs is essential.
 
This lesson cannot be overstated; although the BRR is tasked with coordination of all recovery 
efforts in Aceh and Nias, many gaps remain. This proposed TA will address the issue by 
providing a strong management structure for the coordination of the reconstruction of medium-
scale infrastructure projects across development partners, local and provincial governments, and 
the BRR with the goal of expediting reconstruction activities and strengthening the quality of the 
investments.  
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [X] 
[ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safeguard policies triggered by this project include environmental assessment, involuntary resettlement, 
and Indigenous Peoples. These policies are triggered by virtue of the fact that the project will deliver 
finished projects for financing, and will therefore have had to consider a full range of safeguards issues as 
part of project preparation and detailed design. This project has been categorized as a safeguards category 
B
project. Key social and environmental impact areas to be considered during project preparation work 
will include: 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas.
 
Page  7
·
resource extraction impacts (primarily sourcing of sand, gravel and other quarry material); 
·
construction impacts (excavation, fuel spills, noise and dust management, obstruction to drainage, 
pollution and sedimentation of water courses);  
·
migrant labor related impacts (increased social tension in the community, spread of HIV/AIDs); 
·
inclusion of views/needs of vulnerable groups in planning and preparation work; 
·
land acquisition and resettlement related impacts, with focus on compensation entitlements for 
widows and other marginal groups to ensure equitable treatment; 
·
special needs and concerns of indigenous peoples living on Nias. 
 
The approach taken by the project in addressing impacts will require the development of a social and 
environmental framework that will provide: (i) strategic advice to BRR on the overall environmentally 
sustainability of the infrastructure development strategy; (ii) expertise built into the planning and design 
teams to assist BRR and LGs in screening proposed projects and to identify/mitigate likely impacts; (iii) 
establishment of a facility to carry out all required environmental and social studies to be managed by the 
IPM team; (iv) a process framework for the monitoring and management of environmental and social 
concerns during implementation of sub-projects; (v) provision of capacity building to BRR and local 
governments; and (vi) support to BRR in preparation of environmental guidelines and standards for 
infrastructure projects. 
 
10. Contact point 
Aniruddha Dasgupta 
Lead Urban Planner 
The World Bank 
1818 H. St. NW 
Washington, DC 20433 
adasgupta@worldbank.org 
 
11. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
