                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00002182




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-56894)



                                      ON A

MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND (MDF) FOR ACEH AND NIAS GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$42 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                 THROUGH THE

 AGENCY FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION FOR ACEH AND
                           NIAS

                                    FOR THE

        INFRASTRUCTURE RECONSTRUCTION ENABLING PROGRAM

                                  June 20, 2012



Indonesia Sustainable Development Unit (EASIS)
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 2012)
                   Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
                      IDR 1,000 = US$0.107
                          US$1 = IDR 9,385
                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1  –  December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BRR     Bureau for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction for Aceh and Nias
EIA     Environment Impact Assessment
FM      Financial Management
FMR     Financial Management Report
GOI     Government of Indonesia
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
IFR     Interim Financial Report
IPM     Infrastructure Program Management
IREP    Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program
LARAP   Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan
MDF     Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra later simplified to
        Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and Nias
MIS     Monitoring Information System
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MoPW    Ministry of Public Works
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
O&M     Operations and Maintenance
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PDCS    Planning, Design and Construction Supervision
PMU     Project Management Unit
TA      Technical Assistance


              Vice President: Pamela Cox
           Country Director: Stefan G. Koeberle
            Sector Manager: Franz R. Dress-Gross
          Task Team Leader: Khairy Al-Jamal
          ICR Team Leader: Khairy Al-Jamal
        ICR Primary Author: Reda Hamedoun
                                  Republic of Indonesia
                     Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program


                                                         CONTENTS



Data Sheet
       A. Basic Information ............................................................................................. i
       B. Key Dates ......................................................................................................... i
       C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................. i
       D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................. ii
       E. Bank Staff ........................................................................................................ ii
       F. Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................... iii
       G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ..........................................................v
       H. Restructuring (if any) ..................................................................................... vi
       I. Disbursement Profile ....................................................................................... vi
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ..............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .........................................................................................15
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................18
 6. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners..........23
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .........................................................................25
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................26
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................29
 Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......30
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ..........................................................................33
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..................................................34
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................35
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ......................38
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .....................................................................41
 MAP .............................................................................................................................42
A. Basic Information
                                                                        ID-Aceh-Infrastructure
                                                                        Reconstruction
Country:                Indonesia             Project Name:
                                                                        Enabling Program
                                                                        (IREP)
Project ID:             P100218               L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-056894
ICR Date:                                     ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                        REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                   Borrower:
                                                                        INDONESIA
Original Total
                        US$42.00M             Disbursed Amount:         US$35.655M
Commitment:
Revised Amount : US$42.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Bureau for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction for Aceh and Nias (BRR); and
Ministry of Public Works (MoPW)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF)



B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process            Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review: 02/17/2006           Effectiveness:                          09/13/2006
                                                                             01/07/2008
                                                                             01/10/20091
Appraisal:        03/27/2006         Restructuring(s):
                                                                             04/15/2009
                                                                             06/30/20102
Approval:         06/30/2006         Mid-term Review: 09/30/2008             12/19/2008
                                     Closing:         10/31/2009             12/31/2011
1. Shifting costs between components and reviewing the scope of the IPM and PDCSs
through operational Bank clearance without formal amendment.
2. The date in the project portal was misquoted as June 28, 2010.

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 25                      9
Ports, waterway and shipping                                          25                    18
Roads and highways                                                    25                    67
Water supply                                                          25                      6


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other urban development                                               100                   100




E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:                       Pamela Cox                       Jeffrey Gutman (acting)
Country Director:                  Stefan G. Koeberle                       Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:                  Franz R. Drees-Gross                        Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:                Khairy Al-Jamal                        Aniruddha Dasgupta
ICR Team Leader:                    Khairy Al-Jamal
ICR Primary Author:                 Reda Hamedoun




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Support the BRR's strategy for infrastructure reconstruction by providing high quality
technical assistance (TA) in order to ensure that infrastructure program management,
planning, design and construction management follow adequate standards, and to support
BRR in overall coordination of the infrastructure reconstruction program.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The development objectives and key indicators were not revised.

(a) PDO Key Performance Indicator(s)

                                     Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                      Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator      Baseline Value                        Revised Target
                                         approval                           Completion or
                                                             Values
                                       documents)                           Target Years
                Post Tsunami infrastructure reconstruction and development Monitoring
Indicator 1 :
                Framework for Aceh and Nias
Value                             Framework
                                                                        Framework was
quantitative or N/A               developed and         N/A
                                                                        complete and applied
Qualitative)                      applied
Date achieved 09/01/2006          12/31/2011            12/31/2011      12/17/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 : A strategic plan for infrastructure reconstruction in Aceh and Nias exists
                                                                        Plan exists and has
Value
                                  Plan to be prepared                   been utilized
quantitative or N/A                                      N/A
                                  and utilized                          throughout the
Qualitative)
                                                                        project.
Date achieved 09/01/2006          12/31/2011            12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments
                Achieved
(incl. %
achievement)
                Donors and stakeholders are consulted on the plan and design of projects
Indicator 3 :
                that support implementation of the strategic reconstruction plan
                                                                        Donors are fully
                                                                        informed on program
                                  Donors are                            and project activities,
Value                             continually updated                   now totaling
quantitative or N/A               on implementation of N/A              US$ 207 million of
Qualitative)                      the strategic                         infrastructure from
                                  reconstruction plan.                  the strategic plan and
                                                                        additional financing
                                                                        of US$ 36.7 million
Date achieved 09/01/2006          12/31/2011            12/31/2011      12/17/2010
Comments        Achieved



                                              iii
                                      Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                       Values (from                           Achieved at
  Indicator      Baseline Value                          Revised Target
                                         approval                            Completion or
                                                            Values
                                       documents)                            Target Years
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Proper safeguard measures are integrated into project preparation plan
                                                                       IPM consultants
                                                                       established a project
                                                                       tracking system that
                                  All IRFF supported                   incorporated all
Value                Safeguard
                                  sub-projects will                    safeguard aspects of
quantitative or    framework is                              N/A
                                  adhere to the                        projects. All
Qualitative)        established.
                                  safeguard framework.                 subprojects
                                                                       supported by IRFF
                                                                       adhered to the
                                                                       framework.
Date achieved 09/01/2006          12/31/2011           12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
                Achieved
achievement)

                Projects funded by BRR through IRFF are matched to articulate demands
Indicator 5 :
                of local governments.
                                                                         All IRFF investments
                                    Initial and updated
                                                                         were included in the
                                    investments are
                                                                         annual investment
                                    discussed and agreed
                                                                         plans, and identified
Value                               on with local
                                                                         as a priority by local
quantitative or         None        government and other       N/A
                                                                         government. All
Qualitative)                        stakeholders. All
                                                                         MOUs for O&M and
                                    O&M MOUs to be
                                                                         asset transfer were
                                    signed with local
                                                                         signed for local
                                    government.
                                                                         government project.
Date achieved 09/01/2006            12/31/2011           12/31/2011      12/17/2010
Comments
                Achieved
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Works meet the specifications of the technical designs.
                                                                        In general, quality of
Value                               All works comply
                                                                        works is good and in
quantitative or          N/A        with the design            N/A
                                                                        compliance with the
Qualitative)                        specifications.
                                                                        design specifications.
Date achieved 09/01/2006            12/31/2011           12/31/2011     12/31/2011
Comments
                95% Achieved as two subprojects were not completed and required design
(incl. %
                reviews.
achievement)
                Projects are of higher quality standards than those prepared and
Indicator 7 :
                implemented prior to the TA.


                                              iv
                                      Original Target                             Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                       Values (from                               Achieved at
   Indicator      Baseline Value                            Revised Target
                                         approval                                Completion or
                                                               Values
                                       documents)                                 Target Years
                                                                             In general sub-
                                                                             projects prepared
                                                                             under the IREP were
Value                               All sub-projects
                                                                             of higher quality and
quantitative or        N/A          under the TA will be         N/A
                                                                             bids were subject to
Qualitative)                        of higher standards
                                                                             minor variations and
                                                                             designs were more
                                                                             detailed.
Date achieved 09/01/2006            12/31/2011              12/31/2011       12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %      Achieved
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                 Original Target                Actual Value
                                                  Formally
                                 Values (from                   Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value                    Revised
                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                  Target Values
                                 documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1 : All Consultants are appointed and functioning.
                                                                All consultants
                                 All consultants
Value                                                           including IPM,
                No consultant is including IPM,
quantitative or                                   N/A           PDCSs and FM
                selected         PDCSs and FM are
Qualitative)                                                    were selected and
                                 selected.
                                                                functional
Date achieved 09/01/2006         03/31/2007       03/31/2007    03/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                             Development             Implementation
          Date ISR                                                       Actual Disbursements
 No.                           Objective              Performance
          Archived                                                          (US$ millions)
                                  DO                        IP
 01      03/20/2007           Moderately               Moderately                          0.00
                              Satisfactory             Satisfactory
 02      01/04/2008           Moderately               Moderately                          7.28
                              Satisfactory             Satisfactory
 03      06/30/2009           Moderately               Moderately                        17.80
                              Satisfactory             Satisfactory
 04      06/30/2010           Moderately               Moderately                        28.13
                              Satisfactory             Satisfactory



                                                 v
 05     03/29/2011           Moderately             Moderately                       33.99
                             Satisfactory           Satisfactory
 06     12/25/2011           Moderately             Moderately                       34.89
                             Satisfactory           Satisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                                                                                 Reason for
                  Board             ISR Rating at      Amount Disbursed
Restructuring                                                               Restructuring &
                 Approved           Restructuring      at Restructuring in
    Date                                                                       Key Changes
                PDO change     DO                   IP    US$ Millions
                                                                                   Made
 01/07/2008                    MS                  MS          7.28        Review the scope of
                                                                            the impacted area.
 01/10/2009                    MS                  MS         16.28        Review the scope of
                                                                           IPM and the PDCSs
                                                                             and shifting costs
                                                                                  between
                                                                                components.
 04/15/2009                    MS                  MS          17.8        Restatement of GA,
                                                                            MoPW became the
                                                                               implementing
                                                                                Agency after
                                                                           closure of BRR and
                                                                                extension of
                                                                              Closing Date to
                                                                               June 30, 2010.
 06/30/2010                    MS                  MS         28.13           Extension of the
                                                                               closing date to
                                                                                12/31/2011.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vi
vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and sector context

The tsunami of December 26, 2004 killed or left missing more than 230,000 people in
Indonesia, and the total reconstruction and development program for Aceh and Nias was
estimated to cost up to US$9 billion through 2009. The estimate of the damage to the
housing sector alone was US$ 1.4 billion, with the demand for new housing ranging from
93,000 to 120,000 units. The government of Indonesia (GoI) created a dedicated
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency– Badan Rehabilitasi dan Rekonstruksi (BRR)
- to lead the recovery efforts. The BRR’s priorities were to (i) strengthen coordination
between donors and government agencies; (ii) ensure pledges for infrastructure are
prioritized and matched with sector needs; (iii) improve the quality and pace of
infrastructure reconstruction supporting housing/settlements; (iv) develop institutional
resources for sustainable infrastructure operations and services after the BRR’s operating
period; (v) improve cost effectiveness through quality management and competitive
procurement; and (vi) and increase the efficiency and flexibility of the capital works
planning and budgeting process.


Rationale for Bank Assistance

As a leading international development agency in the area of post-disaster reconstruction,
with a longstanding engagement with relevant government agencies in Indonesia and
around the world, the Bank was well-position to support BRR in its reconstruction
efforts. In addition, the Bank’s involvement in Indonesia’s community-driven
development program also provided a platform to quickly replicate stakeholder
consultation and participation mechanisms and to scale up financing to specifically
address reconstruction needs. GoI had also asked the Bank to take a lead in coordinating
the donor community, requesting suggestions on how this could be handled in practice. In
March 2005, the Bank formally established the "Multi-donor Trust Fund for Aceh and
North Sumatra" (MDTFANS), later simplified to "Multi Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias
(MDF)". The Bank also provided at the same time a grant of US$25 million as a
contribution to the MDF. In all, 15 funding agencies contributed an initial US$550
million to the MDF. The Bank and the European commission channeled all their support
through the MDF, while the Nordic countries, the Netherlands and Belgium provided half
or more of their funding through the MDF.

Project Background and development

It was noted that most of the funds pledged to support rehabilitation and reconstruction in
Aceh were quickly programmed by the GoI, leaving mostly gaps to finance minimum
needs in certain critical areas. BRR’s strategy, therefore, was to focus on the remaining


                                            1
available funds to ensure that they were allocated to cover these gaps. Of the donor
resources, the MDF was the largest source of programmable funds with US$230 million
still available to be programmed at the time IREP was approved. Among other priorities,
BRR’s medium-term strategy called for the main utilization of the remaining MDF
resources for the reconstruction and development (i.e., building back better) of
infrastructure in the areas most damaged by the tsunami and earthquake in Nias and
Aceh.

In order to guide the investment program during BRR’s assignment period, BRR
developed an Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy. This strategy encompassed three
phases: (i) the execution of the ongoing MDF-supported Immediate Action Plan (IAP)
agreed upon in November 2005 to meet urgent infrastructure needs; (ii) the proposed
Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP), which would provide technical
assistance for the mobilization of human resources and technical support to BRR,
provincial, and local governments; and (iii) investment in infrastructure works by BRR
and other donors, including through a proposed Aceh Infrastructure Reconstruction
Facility (IRFF). The implementation of IRFF would be financed through the MDF and
the GoI and the technical support would be managed under IREP.

IREP was designed to work within the prevailing infrastructure framework and strategies
of GoI, and with numerous agencies and donors involved in the reconstruction effort in
Aceh and Nias. In conjunction with IREP, local and provincial governments were
expected to build project management capacity; prepare infrastructure development
plans, feasibility studies, detailed designs, comprehensive procurement planning; and
provide support during construction supervision.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
The development objective of the project was to support BRR's strategy for infrastructure
reconstruction by providing high quality technical assistance in order to ensure that
infrastructure program management, planning, design and construction management
follow adequate standards, and to support BRR in overall coordination of the
infrastructure reconstruction program.

The Key Performance Indicators for this development objective at appraisal were:

1. Development of a sustainable and strategic long-term infrastructure reconstruction
   plan for Aceh and Nias;
2. Donors and other stakeholders are consulted on the infrastructure reconstruction plan
   and design projects that support implementation of the strategy;
3. Technical designs created during project appraisal ensure appropriate quality
   measures have been included;
4. Consultant teams and local and provincial governments prepare projects that
   incorporate adequate procurement and financial management practices and safeguards
   measures;




                                           2
5. The scale of funding committed to implement projects submitted by local and
   provincial governments to BRR as part of their AIPs;
6. Projects are of higher quality standards than those prepared and implemented prior to
   the TA;
7. Increased participation of local and provincial government staff to incorporate
   appropriate safeguards measures and financial management and procurement
   practices during project design and implementation.

In principle, the PDO and the performance indicators are consistent in the project
documents with very minor discrepancies between the PAD and the Legal Agreement.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The development objectives and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
In a narrow sense, the direct beneficiaries were the BRR, Ministry of Public Works
(MoPW), project management unit (PMU), project implementation unit (PIU), and local
consultants who saw their capacity in infrastructure management, design, monitoring and
construction supervision improve. However, the true beneficiaries in a broader sense
were the people of Aceh and Nias (around 1.6 million inhabitants), who benefitted from
the strengthened capacity of these entities to plan and implement infrastructure
reconstruction projects in the disaster affected area.

IREP was strategically integrated with the Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing
Facility (IRFF), another project executed with the Bank acting as Partner Agency on
behalf the MDF. To a large extent, IRFF focused on financing the infrastructure sub-
projects prepared with technical assistance from IREP. IREP worked with 12 local
governments: 7 local governments in the West Coast Logistical Area, 2 in Nias, the
remaining 3 local governments being Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang. At the
provincial level, IRFF included strategic projects, prepared by the provincial government
with IREP support. Some of these projects were located outside the jurisdiction of the 12
local governments to cover the East Coast and central parts of Aceh but this was
consistent with amendment no. 1 to the Grant agreement.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The US$42 million program consisted of five consultancy TA components to be
implemented over a three-year period:

   Component 1 - Infrastructure Program Management (US$19.5 million) to support the
    mobilization of a highly skilled Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) team
    deployed within the existing BRR structure to coordinate the infrastructure program
    and its activities at the macro level. These experts were mobilized to provide
    assistance to BRR in eight specific areas: (i) overall strategic infrastructure planning
    for Aceh and Nias, as per the BRR Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy; (ii)


                                             3
    management of the infrastructure reconstruction program in Aceh and Nias; (iii)
    review of local and provincial governments’ plans for infrastructure investment as a
    basis for BRR funding; (iv) quality control, supervision, and monitoring o f BRR-
    funded infrastructure projects; (v) procurement support; (vi) safeguard support for
    BRR-funded infrastructure projects; (vii) anti-corruption support for BRR-funded
    infrastructure projects; and (viii) management and coordination of other IREP
    consultant teams. At all times, Consultants in Components 2, 3, 4, and 5 reported
    directly to BRR, not the IPM Consultants. The first two tasks of this component
    referred to the entire infrastructure reconstruction program throughout Aceh and Nias,
    as these areas encompassed the work of both the government and other development
    partners. The remaining six activities focused on BRR funded activities.

   Component 2 - West Coast Infrastructure Planning, Design, and Construction
    Supervision (US$l0 million) to finance a technical team to undertake the planning,
    project preparation, and implementation work for the West Coast Logistical Area.
    This team provided assistance to the local governments in three main areas: (i)
    strategic planning; and (ii) project design and implementation; and (iii) institutional
    development support, including the development of a long term maintenance strategy,
    and training. The assignment led to the mobilization of a project team with skills in
    infrastructure planning and program management, institutional development,
    implementation methods of essential services delivery, technical design and
    procurement, construction planning and management, and construction supervision.
    As planned, all works were conducted in close collaboration with local governments
    and public works and in consultation with local communities.

   Component 3 - Nias Infrastructure Planning, Design, and Construction Supervision
    (US$5 million) to support mobilization of a technical team to undertake the planning,
    project preparation, and implementation work for the Nias logistical area. As planned,
    the work focused on repairing the transport network. The consultant team provided
    assistance to the local governments involved in three main areas: (i) strategic
    planning; (ii) project design and implementation; and (iii) institutional development
    support and training. All works were conducted in close collaboration with local
    governments and public works and in consultation with local communities.

   Component 4 - Strategic Infrastructure Project Planning, Design, and Construction
    Supervision (US$6 million) to finance a technical consulting team to undertake the
    formulation, investment planning, design, and project implementation work for
    strategic infrastructure projects at the provincial and or national level, or with local
    governments not covered by components 2 and 3. This component was designed to
    strengthen the ability of BRR and that of the relevant governments to carry out
    project identification, appraisal, and implementation. The Provincial Government
    participated in the selection and development of the “strategic projects? and
    participated in management of the TA consultants. The infrastructure projects
    financed under this TA were mainly related to ports, and key roads managed by
    provincial, national or local government entities.




                                             4
   Component 5 - Financial Management of BRR-financed Projects (US$1.5 million) to
    strengthen BRR’s capacity to put in place the financial management framework
    required to ensure that it meets all its fiduciary responsibilities with respect to this TA
    and other BRR investment projects. This assistance was provided by a team of
    experts that, initially, was located within BRR and later worked side by side with the
    PMU at the MoPW. Financial management of BRR-financed projects included PMU
    and PIUs to establish and maintain financial accounting and statement arrangements
    for project activities undertaken and expenditures incurred at all project locations,
    including monitoring the operation of internal controls over implementation of the
    contracts.

1.6 Revised Components

None.

1.7 Other Significant Changes:

   Amendment No.1, “Review of the Project Area?, January 7, 2008: This amendment
    effected the change in the project service area and introduced the “West Coast
    Logistical Area" which covers the West Coast Kabupatens of Aceh Jaya, Aceh Barat,
    Nagan Rava, Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singkil, Simeulue, Aceh Basear,
    Banda Aceh and Sabang, and such additional Kabupatens as may be agreed by the
    Association in writing. The original Legal Agreement referred only to Aceh Jaya,
    Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singkil and
    Simeulue.

   Amendment No. 2 “Grant Agreement Amendment and Restatement?, April 15, 2009:
    BRR closed on April 16, 2009, and the implementation of the project was entrusted to
    the national Ministry of Public Works (MoPW). The institutional and legal transition
    to MoPW was carried out smoothly. Thus, the implementing agency for IREP (and
    IRFF) became the MoPW. The new PMU was tasked to handle the remaining
    construction works in Aceh and Nias, and was staffed with many former BRR
    officials for a seamless continuation of the project implementation. The IREP grant
    agreement was amended to reflect the new arrangements and to extend the closing
    date to June 30, 2010 in order to match the closing date of IRFF, at that time.

   Amendment No. 3 “Extension of closing date?, June 30, 2010: the Regional Vice
    President approved a second closing date extension, which brought the cumulative
    extension to 26 months.

   Shifting costs between components, January 10, 2009: As detailed in Annex 1, the
    actual costs by component changed substantially from those estimated at appraisal.
    The main change was to reduce the resources dedicated to Components 1 and 2, and
    increase financing for Component 4. This was done to accommodate changing needs
    and priorities, to take advantage of opportunities to increase project effectiveness and
    efficiency, to make the best use of project resources and to balance the



                                              5
   implementation schedules of components 2, 3 and 4. The changes were requested by
   the government, agreed by the Bank, and did not require amendments of the grant
   agreement.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Institutional design: Four months after the devastating tsunami and earthquake, the GoI
established the BRR to manage the reconstruction program of Aceh with an estimated
budget of $6-9 billion. According to the end of first year assessment (December 2005),
the first reconstruction priority was the provision of housing (which was well underway
and progressing adequately). However, as the second reconstruction priority (rebuilding
and restoring essential infrastructure) made very little progress, BRR recognized the need
to apply better spatial planning to handle the reconstruction program. Accordingly, Aceh
and Nias were divided into five areas (North Coast, West Coast, Nias, East Coast and
Middle Aceh). BRR recognized the complexity of the scope and diversity of the skills
needed to implement the reconstruction program and the need to centralize the program
management under a limited number of relatively large consultancy services. The
thinking was to expedite the reconstruction process and to ensure adequate design and
construction quality, which led to the design of the project under its five components, as
described above. Based on its long experience and technical resources to respond to
emergency situations, the World Bank was requested to prepare IREP.

Lessons learned from similar operations: In order to optimize the design of IREP, BRR
incorporated lessons learned from its first year of operation. This included: (i) the need
for supplemental capacity in the BRR to implement and supervise infrastructure projects;
(ii) the imperative that local and provincial governments identify their priorities within a
framework of good practice; (iii) coordination across development partner and
government reconstruction programs; (iv) the allocation of sufficient resources for close
supervision of works to ensure quality construction; and (v) the importance of engaging
communities and other stakeholders throughout the project cycle.

BRR developed a Blueprint for projects before Component 1 was in place, due to the
time pressures of the reconstruction agenda and BRR’s own short life term. BRR
anticipated that this list would need to be revised at some stage and that the designs
would need to be updated. The scope of services of the PDCS consultants accounted for
such a need and all construction works under IRFF were subject to design review prior to
their tendering. Moreover, the priority list was adjusted to reflect the changing demands
from the local authorities and to account for socio-economic and political factors
(especially along the East Coast and Middle Aceh).

Design of the implementation arrangements: During the project's preparatory stage,
within the overall time constraints, the implementation arrangements were detailed and
set up satisfactorily (including necessary fiduciary requirements related to procurement,


                                             6
disbursement and financial management). This was instrumental in the satisfactory
implementation of the project. By preparing the project in six months, the preparation
team also distinguished itself in terms of responsiveness, a crucial attribute in the
development of emergency operations. BRR had established the PMU, led by senior BRR
staff, to oversee project implementation and to interface with all consultants and donors
with the support from the IPM.

Assessment of risks: The financial management and procurement risks were rated as
substantial and high respectively, due to the limited capacity of BRR. However, the
project design addressed these risks adequately through: (i) the hiring of the FM
consultant as described in component 5 of the project; (ii) the hiring of a Procurement
Advisory (PA) team financed by DFID; (iii) the activation of internal FM controls; (iv)
application of BRR and MoPW internal audits; and (v) the hiring of the services of
external audits.

All in all, the project responded to GoI’s reconstruction priorities to produce a simple
design that avoided implementation difficulties. However, in hindsight, several areas
were identified where project preparation could have been improved:

   Sub-project identification: The process of ex-ante definition of the portfolio seemed
    consistent at the time with the short timeframe available. However, this method made
    it inevitable that some important projects would be missed, for some feasibility
    studies to be insufficient at the outset (in water supply or ports) or for some projects
    to be included for political reasons rather than reconstruction realities. Bank
    supervision missions noted that there was pressure from BRR to approve incomplete
    and preliminary designs.

   Capacity Building: IREP design aimed at achieving both short-term reconstruction
    objectives and longer-term objectives of enabling and capacity building of local
    governments. Though an emphasis on capacity building was rightly identified during
    project preparation as crucial to ensure the sustainability and maintenance of the
    assets produced by the program, the lack of resources devoted to it made its
    achievement unrealistic. With a large reconstruction program to deliver in a tight time
    frame and an under-sourced capacity building component, planning, procurement and
    contract management could not always be conducted in a satisfactory manner.

   Institutional design: IREP designed a one-door communication system, in which any
    communication between the consultants and the Bank, as well as coordination with
    related central government level agencies would be carried out through the PMU. A
    good concept in principle, this communication system turned out to be burdensome
    for all parties involved. For an understaffed PMU, it meant an increased workload
    while it had to manage a large infrastructure program. For the consultants, it resulted
    in incomplete information sharing and time delays in receiving guidance and
    instructions, as the flow of information with the gatekeeper (the PMU) became
    increasingly imperfect. This situation was even clearer when the BRR was closed and
    the MoPW became the implementing agency. For the Bank, it meant putting in place


                                             7
    a track for information gathering and monitoring that was independent from the PMU
    in some instances, which led to an unnecessary increase in the workload for
    consultants and the Bank task team.

   Role of Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) Team: The IPM was designed to
    assume the responsibilities of a “super-consultant? and trusted advisor to the BRR,
    which recognized during project preparation that it lacked the adequate capacities in
    terms of strategic planning and program management. However, this role proved to
    be too broadly designed and overly ambitious as it tasked the consultant to provide
    assistance in eight different areas (strategic infrastructure planning, management of
    infrastructure, review of local and provincial government plans, quality control,
    procurement, safeguards, anti-corruption efforts, and management and coordination
    of the four other IREP consultant teams).


2.2 Implementation

   Scope, timing, and effectiveness of IPM consultancy. In mid-2008, it was decided that
    IPM should limit its focus to areas of core implementation, including program
    management and quality assurance, and reduce its engagement in capacity building.
    IPM had been delivering work outside of its original TORs in response to the client’s
    requests, while at the same time having delays in the submission of key deliverables.
    After consultation with the Bank, the BRR decided to refocus IPM resources to
    optimize delivery of IRFF sub-projects and to save costs.

    The IPM consultant was mobilized late, after BRR had started its planning. This
    undermined the ability of IPM to influence strategic planning at the early stage and
    did not help to properly position IPM to be in the driver’s seat in terms of leading the
    reconstruction planning process. Moreover, the improper use of funds by the IPM
    consultant as proven in 2010 led to a lack of trust between the consultant and BRR
    and later MoPW. Accordingly, MoPW decided not to extend the contract of the IPM
    consultant beyond its amended end date in March 2010.

   Flexibility in allocating resources between contracts. In the course of
    implementation, the five consultancy contracts financed under IREP were amended to
    reflect evolving priorities, adequately balance the allocation of resources among
    consultants, and adapt to the closure of BRR. Due to the dynamics of the
    reconstruction program, this proactive flexibility on the part of BRR and MoPW was
    pivotal in facilitating the mobilization of adequately staffed international consultants
    to ensure proper designs and good construction quality. This was particularly true for
    the Planning, Design, and Construction Supervision (PDCS) activities. BRR regularly
    reassessed whether the PDCS consultants had the right resources in place, and
    contracts were amended to reflect these assessments.

   Restructuring: As explained in more detail in Section 1.6, the project was restructured
    three times to clarify the geographic scope of the project, formalize the transition to a


                                             8
   new implementing agency, and extend the closing date twice. The restructurings were
   fairly routine in nature, but helped ensure proper targeting, smooth implementation,
   and alignment of IREP with IRFF (and in particular with the additional financing and
   extension of IRFF).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design: The project design included well-conceived, appropriate outcome
indicators that were clearly linked to the development objectives, verifiable either
quantitatively or qualitatively, and attributable to project interventions. There were some
minor discrepancies between one section of the PAD and another, but the substance was
the same, and the intent was clear. Due to the importance of the M&E in both guiding
project implementation and assessing outcomes, and the shortcomings in the capacity of
BRR, the design called for the IPM to provide support in carrying out the M&E functions.
The design called for the development of a computerized Monitoring Information System
(MIS) which was expected to facilitate the monitoring of outcome indicators and routine
project implementation and financial management for both IREP and IRFF.

M&E Implementation: The IPM successfully produced regular M&E reports, which were
integral parts of the Semi Annual Reports that compiled data provided by the PDCS and
FM consultant (and confirmed by IPM quality assurance staff). In addition, the PMU
developed a Monthly Portfolio Review for a quick monitoring of the progress of all sub-
projects under IRFF and updated the performance indicator matrices for both IREP and
IRFF.

The efforts of IPM to develop a stand-alone computerized MIS were not fully successful
and the system was never used as the focal database for the program. Development of the
system took longer than expected, and ultimately the BRR developed its own MIS system
which made a separate system specifically for IREP redundant and unnecessary. While
the MIS was intended to monitor both physical progress and financial performance, the
shortcomings and delays in the MIS system did not significantly hinder monitoring of the
KPIs, many of which were qualitative in nature.

M&E Utilization: The data and information gathered from the field were compiled by the
IPM consultant and communicated to the PDCS consultants to review the designs of
some sub-projects. This is clear in some roads projects where the soil turned to be
unstable and the need to strengthen the road shoulders was eminent in order to mitigate
the impact of potential landslides. Moreover, in order to maximize the returns from
BRR’s MIS, it had been centrally connected to Bappenas’ MIS which enabled sharing the
project information at the central level.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement




                                            9
All major procurement, such as the selection of the design review and construction
supervision consultants, FM consultant, and program management consultant was
performed in a timely fashion and was generally satisfactory over the course of the
project. BRR was assisted by the Procurement Advisor (PA), financed by DFID, to
prepare all of the early procurement packages. Only the delay in the appointment of
individual consultants for program management and supervision of the sub-projects
carried out under the relatively minor gaps of IRFF was moderately unsatisfactory.

IREP also provided support to BRR and the MoPW to set up adequate procurement
procedures for the procurement of the 56 contract packages (signed value of US$223.62
million) carried out under IRFF and followed by four contract packages (signed value of
US$31.51 million) under IRFF Additional Financing. In particular, IPM was tasked to:

       Provide direct support to BRR and local government procurement activities
        during the first 1.5 to 2 years.
       Identify and agree with BRR alternate and appropriate procurement procedures
        and regulations for each set of investments.
       Assist the preparation of tender documents for international and national
        procurement on BRR, National or World Bank Guidelines.
       Provide guidance on procurement, contract packaging and bid documentation to
        other agencies.
       Recommend the contract packaging and detailed strategy of the works for BRR.

To this end, IPM provided comprehensive support throughout the procurement process
and proceeded to the establishment of a Central Procurement Unit (CPU) within BRR.
The Bid Documents were standardized for National Competitive Bidding (NCB),
applying to works costing up to US$5.0 million, International competitive Bidding for
large civil works (ICB large works) costing above US$10.0 million. The procurement
manual was prepared detailing the procurement implementation steps and decision- tree
for the procurement committees and CPU. The standard operating procedures were
designed. The packaging of works, identification of appropriate document procedures and
regulations for the identified sub-projects were developed. IREP, through IPM, also
provided advice to the CPU on the finalization of the procurement plans.

In addition to this, the IPM advised the procurement committees on bid evaluation,
advised the CPU on procurement decisions, investigated complaints, reviewed the bid
evaluation reports, addressed comments from the Bank, prepared winner notifications,
letters of acceptance and draft contracts, revised (after the Bank supervision mission of
September 2009) the General Conditions of Contract Clause 38 for both NCB and ICB
contracts to provide an allowance for physical contingencies or provisional sums for
unforeseen items, and prepared the procurement completion report of the 56 IRFF
contract packages.

As a result, the IRFF procurement phase was completed in 18 months with an average
time for procurement from advertising to contract signing of 150 days for NCB and 210



                                           10
days for ICB. The Bank supervision mission of December 2008 noted that procurement
process was being carried out efficiently and in accordance with the scheduling process.

Financial Management

The FM aspects were in general in compliance with Bank procedures (and with
additional standards as the financial controls included a Supreme Audit evaluation report,
as well as an annual external audit evaluation report). The external audit reports also
concluded with unqualified compliance. However, the following issues were identified
during the early stages of project implementation:

   Delayed payments during project implementation: The delays adversely affected the
    PDCS consultants’ work and their ability to retain staff and conduct field supervision.
    The delays were mostly due to the bureaucratic complication of yearly reappointment
    of PPK/Satkers who had responsibility and authority in the budget allocation
    (DIPA’s) process. However the PPK/Satker reappointment delay was reduced by
    PMU and MoF at the Bank prompting from three months to one month.

   The Interim Financial Report (IFR) submissions were chronically late, despite the
    Bank missions’ systematic reminders that PMU (through IREP 5) should submit them
    45 days after each quarter closes. The Bank also recommended that the PMU should
    implement a financial penalty to any underperforming consultants who submitted
    their reports late. These delays were also a reflection of the dysfunctional MIS, as the
    FM consultant (IREP 5) could not rely on a comprehensive and up to date monitoring
    database and information flows with the three other consultants (IPM and the three
    PDCS) were not smooth. IREP 5 did not have access to some contract amendments,
    or IPM did not receive updated physical progress information from PDCS in a timely
    manner. Numerous occasions arose where the FM consultant received conflicting
    information from the contractors and the PDCS consultant on the progres of works,
    especially in Nias. These delays improved during the later stages of the project as the
    FM consultant proactively compiled and consolidated IPM and PDCS reports.

   The financial control systems were less than satisfactory as the oversight role of
    IREP 5 was limited. IREP 5 did not have adequate access to all documents and was
    unable to verify all payments as per their TORs and project SOPs. A Bank
    supervision mission in April 2009 noted that only 30% of payments were verified by
    the FM consultant. Corrective measures, including that no payment request should be
    processed without prior verification from the FM consultant, were raised by the Bank
    and led to the gradual improvement of FM oversight as noted in the ISRs.


Environment

Although IREP’s scope encompassed only the procurement of services to support
infrastructure reconstruction, the PAD noted that it would have, in practice, the effect of
programming very significant resources for reconstruction in Aceh and Nias. Key


                                            11
environmental impact areas to be considered included: resource extraction impacts
(primarily sourcing of sand, gravel and other quarry material) and construction impacts
(excavation, fuel spills, noise, dust, obstruction to drainage, pollution and sedimentation
of water courses).

The approach followed was to task the IPM team to support BRR efforts in meeting the
environmental safeguards requirements by providing advice to BRR on all safeguards-
related issues and in assisting it in drafting action plans, preparing an Environmental
strategy for approval by BRR, engaging additional and specialist consulting support to
prepare all required social and environmental studies (AMDAL, UKL/UPL, and LARAP)
and to ensure that contractors and suppliers operated in accordance with accepted
contractual safeguard requirements.

It was agreed from the start that the Indonesian AMDAL legislation and procedures
would satisfy the Bank’s requirements, particularly for the planning and design of the
packages. During the 2007 Bank supervision mission, the Bank and BRR agreed to
implement a modified system of quality assurance designed by the IPM safeguards team
that was set out in a draft Environmental Management and Monitoring Protocol. The
Protocol linked the design and planning phase to the implementation of the project and
applied to all project packages. In effect, this created the Construction Environmental
Action Plan (CEAP) as a unique feature applying to all IRFF sub-projects. However, 22
projects which were already approved or in the procurement stage at the time of the 2007
supervision mission were excluded from the new CEAP requirement.

Overall, environmental management during implementation was satisfactory, and the
Bank task teams showed serious interest and concern for good safeguard management.
This engagement was particularly visible in the following areas:

   Regulatory requirements, including Bank review and clearance: Most regulatory
    requirements were met, and approval by GoI and review and clearance by the Bank
    were issued. It must be noted, however, that some environmental assessment studies
    were not up to Bank standards, which cleared some with the condition that a
    supplementary CEAP be done for the construction stage. Also, the Bank’s
    environmental specialists reviewed most AMDAL studies received, plus a sample of
    the UKL/ UPL documents, and their quality was considered to be generally
    acceptable.

   Bank supervision: In addition to the Bank’s regular supervision missions, Bank staff
    based in Banda Aceh carried out periodic field visits to review construction progress,
    quality and safeguards aspects. As a matter of practice, the key findings were
    provided immediately to the BRR, IPM and the three PDCS upon return from the
    field, with detailed recommendations and target dates for completion of actions.

   Environmental monitoring, reports and actions: The environmental monitoring site
    visits and subsequent reports by the PDCS consultants added significant value in
    terms of quality improvement of implementation. A number of serious design flaws



                                            12
    were identified by these field visits. Actions for improvements, including specific
    instructions to the contractors by the supervision engineers, were recommended by
    the monitoring teams. They also provided coaching and mentoring to contractors and
    supervision field staff on how to do better environmental management.

   Interventions addressed at contractors: The CEAP model proved to very useful and
    positively impacted environmental performance under the construction contracts. For
    instance, a template for a CEAP for a typical road project was prepared by the IPM
    consultants, which helped to improve the quality of the plans, and ultimately the
    quality of implementation. Two other contracts (Calang Port and Kota Sigli WS) used
    a CEAP prepared with the help of the PDCS consultants and implementation quality
    was found to be generally better.

Social Safeguards

Social safeguard policies triggered by IREP were, as outlined in the PAD, involuntary
resettlement and indigenous peoples. Although, the actual supervision and monitoring of
land acquisition/resettlement and compensation was within the scope of IRFF (IREP was
only tasked with providing consultancy services in this area), it should be noted that
timely compensation was provided for the ten sub-projects involving land acquisition.
Bank supervision missions regularly provided updates on the status of land acquisition
and documentation, and monitored the submission of IPRs. Where specific issues arose,
the Bank was pro-active and diligent. When the Tj. Meulaboh-Pante Cermin kabupaten
road subproject was about to acquire a piece of land with an old house on it, the Bank
requested IPM to confirm that a negotiation between the BRR and land owner would be
done properly, that compensation levels would be set at or above the market price and
that remaining land plots could be used for productive activities.

IPM was tasked to provide advice to BRR, help it prepare social studies, and assist in
ensuring that all social safeguards requirements were met. It was agreed for social
safeguards that the project would strictly follow Bank policies and procedures (the main
areas of difference between Bank and local policy included land acquisition,
compensation, resettlement, indigenous people, gender and social inclusion). To this end,
IPM developed social management plans for any subproject with a potential social impact
on surrounding communities, such as the Lohseumawe Drainage and Reservoir project
and Calang-Meulaboah Road. Both local and provincial governments were cooperative
and fairly compensated impacted people.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The sustainability and maintenance of the assets was probably the most important issue
affecting the project. The PAD did identify the main sustainability risks arising from the
expiration of the BRR mandate in April 2009 (i.e., before the closure of IREP and IRFF):
(i) local and provincial governments might not own the projects financed by BRR, which
could result in inadequate maintenance in the post-BRR period, and (ii) local government




                                           13
revenues derived from natural resources would likely decline as Aceh’s share of oil and
gas revenues would decrease after 2009.

Out of the 56 IRFF sub-projects, 13 sub-projects, comprising 34 % of the total asset cost
were handed over to the central authorities (5 ports to the Ministry of Transportation; and
8 national roads to the MoPW). Those packages are being managed following the
national standards and using national budget allocations.

9 provincial road sub-projects comprising 32% of the total asset cost were handed over to
the Aceh and North Sumatra provincial governments. As with other provincial assets,
these roads are being managed by the Provincial Dinas with adequate maintenance
budget allocations.

For the remaining projects (34% of the total assets), MoUs for assets handover were
signed between BRR and local governments (based on a standard template drafted by
IREP consultants), but the financial capacity of local governments did not always allow
them to devote sufficient funds for maintenance. In a context where decentralization
efforts have not been complete in the project area (infrastructure maintenance fund
allocation have been historically centralized in Jakarta), local governments do not always
dispose of sufficient funds to meet expenditures or prioritize new construction over
maintenance of existing assets. While the MOUs served to ensure smooth asset transfers
to the local authorities, the low capacity of these local authorities to manage these assets
remains a concern which is shared among the entire Aceh reconstruction program.

The Bank supervision teams were mindful of these risks, but efforts to remedy the risks
posed to sustainability of the assets produced limited results in terms of actual allocation
of maintenance funds. These efforts included:

   The review by all PDCS and IPM of district level projects to assess if there were local
    government initiatives critical for successful and long-term operation of the
    investment (these reviews were added to MOUs as addenda).

   Local governments capacity assessments, which were implemented for 12
    provincial/district governments, including: Aceh province, Banda Aceh, Sabang,
    Aceh Besar, Aceh Jaya, Nagan Raya, Aceh Barat, Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Selatan,
    Aceh Singkil, Nias and Nias Selatan. Consequently, capacity building program plans
    were produced. The assessments were conducted through a series of focus group
    discussions that aimed at identifying strengths and weaknesses of local governments
    in terms of reconstruction management and maintenance programming.

   A request to the PMU in May 2010 to prepare a complete listing on each IRFF
    contract containing, among other data, an action list for ensuring final ownership and
    sustainability.

The donors and MDF called upon GoI to ensure that the maintenance costs were
budgeted for and transferred to the local governments. It is worth noting that the local
governments have received some capacity building, through other projects like


                                            14
Earthquake and Tsunami Emergency Support Project (ETESP) funded by ADB, Aceh
Emergency Response and Transitional Recovery project managed by the UNDP, Support
to Local Governments and Community Planning project, funded by GTZ and other
projects funded from USAID, EU, CIDA, JICA, the Netherlands and France. This needs
to be considered in the design of any future capacity building program to avoid
duplication.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives remain highly relevant to the development priorities of Indonesia.
The development of large-scale infrastructure remains crucial to the country, and is a
pillar of the Bank’s engagement (Core Engagement 2) as outlined in the 2008-2012
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The document recognizes the need to strengthen the
accountability and capacity of institutions to deliver better infrastructure outcomes.

The project objectives are also highly relevant to the Bank’s strategy to play a major role
in disaster reconstruction, helping to reduce Indonesia’s vulnerability to natural disasters
as outlined in the CPS (Core Engagement 5). The document stressed that the Bank would
continue deepening the relationships established with Bappenas and the local
governments of Aceh and Nias in supporting selected elements of the Government’s
actions to strengthen natural disaster resiliency.

Implementation arrangements were consistent with the country policy to build capacity
within national institutions. After BRR closed in 2009, the implementing agency of IREP
became the MoPW. The new PMU was tasked to handle remaining construction work in
Aceh, and was staffed with many former BRR officials for continuity.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives


Provision of high quality technical assistance in order to ensure that infrastructure
program management, planning, design and construction management follow
adequate standards (Moderately Satisfactory):
The project strongly supported the BRR’s strategy for infrastructure reconstruction of
Aceh and North Sumatra by providing high quality technical assistance and capacity
building to BRR and MoPW. The project in effect enabled the implementation of the
IRFF by financing the technical assistance needed to perform the project implementation
management activities including procurement, financial management, quality control and
quality assurance, safeguards framework assurance and monitoring, implementation
monitoring and the design and construction supervision of all activities under the IRFF.
All major consultancy firms required to manage the implementation of IRFF were
appointed.



                                            15
In general, and given the time constraints at the beginning, the project fulfilled its
primary objective in terms of the quality of the technical assistance provided. All 56 sub-
projects under IRFF, except for Siron Water Pipe Bridge and Siggli Water Intake, were
subject to detailed engineering design reviews and adequate construction supervision. In
some cases, designs were adjusted to take into consideration new findings in the field,
especially with respect to soil characteristics to mitigate for land-slides where road
shoulders are steep and/or the soil is unstable. The two failing sub-projects mentioned
above (Siron Water Pipe Bridge and Siggli Water Intake) couldn’t be finished before the
companion IRFF project closed. Thus, they have subsequently been reviewed and
redesigned and reconstruction is now underway from the MoPW’s own budget. As a
commitment guarantee, the involved PDCS liability was protected by renewing
performance liability insurance to anticipate any shortfall that may be identified due to
design fault or improper construction supervision.


Support BRR in overall coordination of the infrastructure reconstruction program
(Moderately Satisfactory):
The project also supported BRR and MoPW in the overall coordination of the
infrastructure reconstruction program through the IPM consultant. The IPM consultant
provided solid support to BRR with regards to managing the work programs,
performance and outputs of the three PDCS consultants and the FM consultant in charge
of the implementation of four other components of IREP. It strengthened the coordination
arrangements with the PDCS consultants, notably in terms of quality assurance and
control, construction supervision, monthly certificates preparation and program revisions
such as the gaps and actions on Bank Aide-memoires. IPM regularly monitored their
performance and discussed findings with the PMU, prompting the issuance of jointly
formulated action plans. IPM performance was also solid in terms of environmental and
social safeguard compliance of all stakeholders, as IPM consultants had established a
project tracking system that incorporates all safeguard aspects of projects.
As discussed earlier, there were some shortcomings in the IPM consultants’ overall
effectiveness, as the workload and number of deliverables under the original TORs were
not matched by IPM capabilities and staffing. In particular, the performance of IPM was
found lacking in terms of completing the MIS, and at an early implementation stage,
quarterly and mid-term reporting, PIPs and quality assurance were lagging behind. The
very high turnover of IPM leadership and expatriate staff also affected its coordination
capacities and strained its working relationship with BRR, PMU and the four other
consultants. In May 2008, the Bank recommended to BRR to reduce the scope of works
of IPM in areas such as capacity building and planning, which further reduced the
capacities of IPM. Ultimately, the IPM contract was cut by almost a third, and the
completion date was moved from June 2010 to March 2010.



3.3 Efficiency




                                            16
The performance of BRR is worth noting as being efficient, especially against the
backdrop of the very real constraints following the tsunami and earthquakes of 2004. In a
short time, the BRR was able to lead the implementation of a US$6+ billion investment
program including the 56 sub-project under IRFF.

However, the midterm review noted that all in all, the project provided low value for
money. While IPM was supposed to serve the overall infrastructure construction process
(all GOI, BRR and other donor projects), the consultant worked almost exclusively on
IRFF sub-projects. PDCS consultants also almost exclusively worked on IRFF sub-
projects. As a consequence, the ratio of cost of the overall TA provided by IREP (US$42
million) to the capital investment (US$200 -300 million) was relatively high.

On the other hand, the ratio of the cost of the design and construction (i.e., only PDCS)
on IRFF capital investment was around 11%, putting it within the Indonesian good
practice range (8-12%).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project achieved its primary development objective of supporting the BRR's strategy
for infrastructure reconstruction by providing technical assistance in order to ensure that
infrastructure program management, planning, design and construction management
follow adequate standards. IREP also managed to support the BRR/MoPW in the overall
coordination of this large infrastructure program, and enabled the 56 IRFF sub-projects to
come to fruition in a timely and adequate manner, for the benefit of the people of Aceh
and Nias. However, as discussed earlier, monitoring (through the failed MIS
implementation), and capacity building of the local authorities could have been improved.

In summary, IREP achieved its development objectives, albeit with moderate
shortcomings. It remains highly relevant to the country infrastructure and disaster
mitigation priorities. During the implementation, quality assurance, financial
management and post-completion operation and maintenance problems were identified
and mitigated for the most part. As such, an overall rating of moderately satisfactory is
justified.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

   (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

IREP enabled the construction of 56 sub-projects including Ports, Roads, General Water
Sanitation/Flood Protection and Water Supply. Although no socio-economic impact study
was conducted, it seems that the project has positively impacted the livelihoods of Aceh
and Nias through (i) the improvement of sea and land connectivity and mobility; (ii) the
improvement of livelihoods for the local community and the stimulation of local
economic growth (increasing the number of cargo boats and docks loading and unloading



                                           17
consumer items, processed products and crops. In particular, cloves and crude palm oil
have increased by more than 20%); (iii) the development of new economic growth
contributors such as restaurants, shops, hotels and public services facilities (which all
increased the districts’ disposable income); (iv) the improvement of Banda Aceh’s solid
waste management through the construction of a sanitary landfill with recycling and
composting capacity; and (v) the improved provision of clean water supply.

     (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project provided an intense on-the-job training to the PMUs, PIU and other staff of
Bappenas, MoF, MoPW and the provincial and local governments staff in program
design and implementation, engineering designs, construction supervision and financial
management. The implementation arrangement initiated by BRR was adopted by MoPW
after the closure of BRR. Moreover, MoPW maintained the PMU structure after IREP
closed.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

NA

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

NA

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The IREP program has enabled proper design and construction of good quality
infrastructure and has mitigated the risk of short life and/or failure of the assets. As
mentioned earlier (see Section 2.5), the majority of large IRFF sub-projects are managed
at the national and provincial levels, where capacity to maintain them is adequate.
However, sub-projects which were transferred to the local authorities might very well be
affected by poor asset management and maintenance. This significant risk is currently
being addressed by central, provincial and local governments.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank Task Team ensured that IREP’s overall development objectives were closely
aligned with both GoI and Bank strategies on infrastructure management and disaster
mitigation. This alignment, combined with sound implementation arrangements,



                                           18
facilitated timely completion without compromising environmental concerns or social
safeguards. The program attracted the attention of the highest management level in the
Bank including the close involvement of its regional Vice President for East Asia Pacific.

The design ensured timely delivery of the majority of the project development objectives.
The IREP was designed for carry out a disaster response program covering 12 districts in
Aceh Province and Nias Island. The program was successful in supporting the 56 priority
sub-projects previously identified throughout the design, procurement, supervision and
implementation stages.

Considering the time constraints during the IREP preparation stage, the IPM’s role
(especially in terms of balancing the effectiveness and the wide geographic scope) was
too ambitious. Some of the IPM functions, such as the project supervision of QA, were
found to be overlapping with the PDCS role. As a result, BRR streamlined the IPM ToRs,
limited such functions to the PDCS and requested the IPM to be more focused on
implementation management activities until its contract ended.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. Task Team Leaders initially followed the project
from Washington DC but were in continuous contact with infrastructure team members
who were based in Banda Aceh. This turned out to be critical for such a large size post-
disaster reconstruction program. Moreover, in late 2010, the TTL was re-located to
Jakarta which further enhanced the quality of supervision. This supervision set up and the
permanent presence of Bank staff in the reconstruction areas ensured continuous Bank
oversight throughout project implementation. The Bank’s supervision strategy resulted
in relatively high supervision costs which were financed from the MDF and which
considered the success of the project a top priority.

While implementation difficulties did occur, the pro-activeness of Bank supervision
could be noted in a number of aspects, such as:

   Working with the PMU systematically to address weaknesses in reporting and in
    financial management.
   Increased attention to technical design, implementation quality and achievement of
    quality outcomes.
   Designing post-BRR institutional arrangements with MoPW, MoF and Bappenas.

Moreover, the Bank’s policies and procedures were applied consistently. Supervision
missions were conducted in a professional and constructive manner, and mission teams
consistently included the experts needed to discuss relevant supervision topics and issues.
The timing of formal supervision missions (on average twice a year and supplemented by
frequent routine supervision missions by the TTLs and the task team members who were
based in Banda Aceh) was appropriate and comments received from PMU and
BRR/MoPW staff indicated a respectful working relationship and a flexible approach by



                                            19
Bank staff.     Aide Memoires, Management Letters, ISRs and other project
communications and documents were completed in a timely manner with clear references
to needed actions covering all aspects of project components, safeguards and fiduciary
issues.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's overall performance rating is based on satisfactory ratings for both quality at
entry and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Performance of GoI was satisfactory, especially in terms of the strong and sustained
commitment to the project development objective. The agencies (MoF, MoPW and
Bappenas) turned out to be extremely cooperative and very effective in taking decisive
action in a timely manner, in particular with regard to the Bank recommendations on
implementation activities, including channeling the budget allocation (DIPA) and
preparing sufficient yearly budget allocations.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Performance of the implementing agencies was satisfactory. BRR and the MoPW
protected the integrity of the project and sustained its development objective. As an
independent agency, BRR performed effectively and was able to channel and manage a
reconstruction effort valued more than US$6 billion in only 4 years. This fast pace was
supported by the strong authority which BRR was granted which enabled it to avoid most
of the bureaucracy faced by line ministries.

The slowdown of the implementation was clearly noticed following the closure of BRR
and the handover of the implementation to the MoPW where the PMU functioned more
as a Program Management Unit and effective implementation was mostly managed by a
number of PIUs which sometimes were difficult to coordinate. This setup required the
Task Team to devote extra efforts to ensure compliance with Bank fiduciary and
safeguards procedures and guidelines.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                            20
Both GoI and the Implementing Agencies (BRR and MoPW) managed to implement the
IREP with satisfactory performance.

6. Lessons Learned

Lessons were learned for both future operations in both Indonesia and future similar
reconstruction TAs in other countries, particularly in the following areas: Contract
Management and Flexibility; Social and Environmental safeguards management;
Implementation Arrangements; Maintenance and Capacity building; Stakeholder
Participation and Commitment; and Implementation Support Arrangements.

   a) Future operations in Indonesia

Contract Management and Flexibility: BRR did not allow any sub-project to make any
change that would have led to an increase of the signed contract price. Thus, and to
account for any design changes, the only way was to reduce the scope of the works. This
has led to some incomplete works. While this policy gave BRR a tighter control on the
budget, it also adversely affected some sub-projects. Incomplete works were grouped
under the “Gaps? packages and were tendered separately, which turned out to be more
costly. Also, loading the consultancy contracts with reimbursable payments resulted in
some fund misuse and false reporting on reimbursable expenses (as was the case in the
IPM contract). To mitigate this, it would be best to design such contracts with very few or
no reimbursable payments in the future. Alternatively, more rigorous FM monitoring
would be required.

Social and Environmental Safeguards management: the projects handled the design and
implementation of 56 sub-projects of diverse types and in different locations and
environment, leading to many safeguards issues. These were addressed through: (i) the
allocation of provisional budgets to implement environmental management plans as part
of the civil works contracts; (ii) staffing of all PDCS consultants with the relevant
safeguards specialists; (iii) IPM QA and QC functions included the safeguards aspects
(iv) close involvement and commitment of the implementing agency, provincial and local
governments to implement LARAPs satisfactorily; and (v) close Task Team monitoring
and follow up with Indonesian counterparts.

   b) Future similar reconstruction TAs in client countries

Implementation arrangements: The establishment of BRR as the entity responsible for
the implementation of the reconstruction program of Aceh undoubtedly boosted the
construction pace. BRR was empowered to operate outside the daily bureaucratic
constraints, a setting that made the mobilization of financial and human resources easier.
Moreover, BRR was created with a limited lifetime to enable the line ministries, like the
MoPW in this case, to pursue their roles seamlessly after the closure of the BRR. Also,
BRR established its own Procurement Central Unit (PCU) to manage all procurement
activities.




                                            21
On the other hand, the daily implementation was fragmented between a large number of
changing PIU/Satkers and thus many procurement committees. The PMU had no control
over the implementation and was mandated with the program planning. This made it
sometimes difficult for effective communication. Also, a large and comprehensive
reconstruction program such as the one supported by IREP was bound to be fraught with
continuous changes in engineering designs, issues with the flows of information and
unforeseen events.

More care will be needed in future operations in the design of roles and institutional
coordination between the Bank, the PMU and the various contracted consultants.
Implementation models for consultant management could be based on the review of best
practices in terms of progress of delivery, financial viability, quality of delivery,
environmental soundness and asset end-user satisfaction. Having IPM assisting the
program management was not sufficient, especially where their ToRs overlapped with the
mandate of the PDCSs like in the case of the quality assurance and quality control.

Maintenance and Capacity building: In order to ensure the sustainability, as a medium-
term development objective, of built assets, mechanisms to allocate sufficient funds or
establish a maintenance fund should be effectively designed, especially in environments
where decentralization efforts are lagging. Also, it seems that a regionalized large
infrastructure program such as this one are best suited in an environment where the
capacity of the local government is sound and devolution of authority is real.

In the end, and understandably, the emphasis in this project was always on the
completion of the large building programs under institutional, budgetary and time
pressures rather than on the sustainability of these assets after handover. The project did
not put enough emphasis in effective training in infrastructure management, operation
and maintenance of local government staff, as was underscored by the reduction of
funding devoted to these activities. Local governments, on the other hand, did not
allocate funds to these training activities. Capacity building in infrastructure management
can only be effective when based on a sound analysis of the incentives and capacity of
the local government, to which assets are to be handed over. It is recommended that in
the future, local governments will allow for funding of capacity building programs in
their medium term development plans to acquire the proper skills in infrastructure
management.

Also, in some remote areas such as Nias, the working environment for outside contractors
was challenging and made it less attractive for workers to stay. This led to the termination
of some contracts and when local contracts were subcontracted, the quality of works was
not always satisfactory. To mitigate this, it is thus recommended that capacity building in
similar regional reconstruction projects include local contractors in the future.

Stakeholder Participation and Commitment: The project is a successful example of
stakeholder participation and commitment, which led for instance to the satisfactory
design of the sub-projects priority list and the support of the various authorities to




                                            22
facilitate and safeguard project implementation. Stakeholders included the central,
provincial and local governments; local communities, NGOs, Donors, MDF and the Bank.

Implementation Support Arrangements: Both the MDF and the Bank acknowledged the
necessity to be closer to the project area, and the MDF supported the opening of a field
office in Banda Aceh. This proximity to the center of activity greatly facilitated
implementation on a day to day basis and provided continuous support to the client.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

In general, the government of Indonesia was satisfied with the project’s outcomes. The
original implementing agency (BRR) was closed in 2009. The borrower completion
report and comments on the ICR were prepared by the Ministry of Public Works
(MoPW), and were mostly related to contract management.

   BPK’s audit in 2010: The BPK (Government Auditor) criticized the PMU for
    awarding contracts which exceeded Engineer Estimates and for the allocation of
    environmental budget for some sub-projects under IRFF. The PMU requested a
    formal clarification from the Bank supporting their views. The Bank invited the BPK
    and clarified that this can happen under normal circumstances and this is why the
    Bank issued the no objection letters to the award of contracts. Nonetheless, BPK
    requested the PMU to re-bid these contracts but the Bank considered that this was not
    a sufficient basis for rebidding. Moreover, the Bank addressed a general letter to BPK
    explaining that the Bank, as a matter of general practice, only issued a no objection
    letter and that it was the implementing agency’s responsibility to approve and sign the
    contracts as a legal entity. The Bank had also made it clear that making provisional
    sums to implement environmental action plans was not against sound procurement
    principles and that it was up to the implementing agency to manage these
    components. It was made clear that this practice was acceptable to the Bank.

    Performance of IPM: The Borrower notes that the IPM Consultant was unable to
    perform its function optimally and that some capacity building, MIS and donor
    activities could not be conducted. The Bank, as noted in the text of this ICR, shares
    this assessment and notes that the scope of activities and TORs might have been too
    ambitious and too broadly designed.

   Performance of PDCSs: The Task Team mediated between the PMU and the
    consultants to facilitate agreements between the parties to remedy the design and/or
    construction supervision shortfalls. However, the team made it clear to the PMU that
    the Bank was not a legal entity in any contract and it would not issue a letter
    criticizing the design. In all cases, the PMU was advised to refer to the dispute
    resolution clause of the signed contracts. Moreover, the Bank assisted the consultants
    and the MoPW to reach a framework agreement to remedy the shortfalls in the sub-
    projects referred to in the Borrower ICR section, annex 7.


                                            23
   Rate adjustments: Based on the Bank’s review and the information provided, these
    adjustments were not eligible. The PMU failed to present supporting documents to
    clear these adjustments. It was noted that the PDCSs had approved them a long time
    after the event, that no notification was sent to the Bank and that the technical
    rationale was weak. While the PDCS reviewed and approved the rate adjustment
    claims 12 months after the last monthly invoice, the PMU took around a year to
    respond to the clarifications raised by the Bank review and even then, the supporting
    documents were not sufficient to clear the rate adjustment.

(b) Cofinanciers

The Multi-Donor Fund (MDF) was also generally positive about the outcomes of the
project (see Annex 8 for comments provided by the MDF Secretariat). The Bank
appreciates the inputs and support of the MDF in preparing the ICR, and does not have
any comments about issues raised by the MDF.




                                           24
                       Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                              Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                                                               Percentage of
                Components                    Estimate       Estimate
                                                                                Appraisal
                                            (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Infrastructure Program Management                    19.5         10.45                  53.6
West Coast Infrastructure Planning,
                                                     10.00            4.27               42.7
Design and Construction Supervision
Nias Infrastructure Planning, Design and
                                                      5.00            6.21              124.2
Construction Supervision
Strategic Infrastructure Planning, Design
                                                      6.00           12.04              200.6
and Construction Supervision
Financial Management of BRR-financed
                                                      1.50            2.69              179.4
Projects
Total Baseline Cost                                  42.00           35.66               84.9
Physical Contingencies                                0.00            0.00                  -
Price Contingencies                                   0.00            0.00                  -
Total Project Costs                                  42.00           35.66               84.9
Project Preparation Costs                             0.00            0.00                  -
Total Financing Required                             42.00           35.66               84.9

(b) Financing

                                                      Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                     Type of                                      Percentage of
        Source of Funds                               Estimate       Estimate
                                   Cofinancing                                     Appraisal
                                                    (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDF)                              42.00           35.66          84.9
Total Financing                                           42.00           35.66          84.9




                                               25
                        Annex 2. Outputs by Component
                            (US$ as approved, US$ actual)


Component 1 (IREP 1 - IPM contract): US$19.50 million as approved, US$10.447
million actual.

GHD was appointed as the IPM consulting firm to provide assistance to BRR in overall
strategic infrastructure planning for Aceh and Nias, management of the infrastructure
reconstruction program in Aceh and Nias, review of local and provincial governments
plans for infrastructure investment as a basis for BRR funding, quality control,
supervision, and monitoring of BRR-funded infrastructure projects, procurement support,
safeguard support for BRR-funded infrastructure projects, anti-corruption support for
BRR-funded infrastructure projects, and management and coordination of the four other
IREP consultant teams.

Following a Bank supervision mission in May 2008, it was decided that IPM should limit
its focus on areas of core implementation, including program management and quality
assurance, and reduce its capacity building engagement. It was found that IPM was
delivering work outside of its original TORs in response to the client’s requests, while
facing time delays in the submission of key deliverables. Following their consultation
with the Bank BRR decided to refocus IPM resources to optimize delivery of IRFF sub-
projects and save costs. The reduction of the scope of the contract with IPM was
formalized through an amendment to their original contract.

The IPM consultant was mobilized late, after BRR had started its planning. This
undermined the ability of IPM to influence strategic planning at the early stage and did
not help to properly position IPM to be in the driving seat in terms of leading the
reconstruction planning process. Moreover, the improper use of fund by the IPM
consultant as proved in 2010 lead to state of lack of trust between the consultant and BRR
and MoPW later Accordingly, MoPW decided not to extend contract of the IPM
consultant beyond its amended end date in March 2010.

In order to maintain the smooth implementation of the remaining of the IRFF until the
closing date on December 31, 2011, the MoPW decided to appoint individual consultants
but never did so. Though it has minor effect in the overall implementation of IRFF, this
has left some IRFF project Gaps’ works incomplete but the MoPW remained committed
to complete such Gaps from the GoI own resources.

By closure of the contract in March 2010, IPM had fulfilled its obligations, including
monitoring progress monitoring for all IRFF sub-projects, coordinating the work of the
consultants and conducting regular QA/QC checks on PDCS services.

Components 2, 3 and 4 (IREP-2, IREP- 3, and IREP-4 - PDCS contracts): US$21.00
million as approved, US$22.517 million actual.




                                           26
The mobilization of adequately staffed international consultants ensured proper designs
and good construction quality. Due to the reconstruction program dynamics, BRR and the
MoPW were flexible to consider re-allocation of resources for the PDCS consultants.
Thus BRR was always prompted to thoroughly analyze if PDCSs had the right resources
to ensure the overall quality of the portfolio. Contracts were amended to reflect these
analyses and the changes in staffing and schedules resulting from the refocusing on
quality assurance and supervision. Moreover, the scope of these PDCSs was revised to
allow for timely implementation of IREP and IRFF. This has resulted in lowering the
scope of IREP 3 and increase the scope of IREP 4. In addition, the review of the priority
construction projects under IRFF resulted in introducing new works in the Aceh east
coast and the middle of Aceh. All of these new works were added to the contract of IREP
4. In particular:

      IREP-2 (US$10.00 million approved, US$4.271 million actual): Royal
       Haskoning was the PDCS consultant for the west coast component, and this
       contract closed on December 15, 2009. Designs were prepared, necessary
       procurement completed and construction overseen for four water and sanitation
       contracts, four water resource sub-projects and 16 packages for Kabupaten roads.
       Physical works related to this component were completed.

      IREP-3 (US$5.00 million approved, US$6.211 million actual): DHV was
       contracted as the PDCS consultant providing the designs and construction
       supervision for sub-projects in Nias. Works on the Gunung Sitoli Port and one
       provincial road package have been completed, with a second provincial road at
       98% complete. The two Kabupaten road packages are still under construction and
       both are less than 50% complete.

      IREP -4 (US$6.00 million approved, US$12.035 million actual): SMEC
       provided PDCS services for the strategic infrastructure component. Designs were
       completed for all projects under this component. Three ports were completed, and
       one port package (Calang Port) was terminated due to lack of performance by the
       contractor. This sub-project was transferred to the Ministry of Transportation,
       subsequently retendered, and works are now continuing under GoI budget. Three
       water and sanitation sub-projects were completed. Roads packages were largely
       completed, with works on five national roads completed and works on two
       national roads ongoing. One national roads contract was terminated due to poor
       contractor performance and was transferred to the Ministry of Public Works. The
       recovery status of this sub-project is still pending. Construction and supervision
       on four out of seven provincial roads are finished, with the remaining three roads
       under construction. Four kabupaten roads were completed, and one sub-project,
       that has subsequently been included in the gaps tendering process, was
       terminated. Under the gaps identified, one new water and sanitation sub-project
       and four roads packages are under preparation.

Component 5 (Financial Management) (US$1.5 million approved, US$2.691 million
actual):


                                           27
Financial Management services were provided by HLB. The consulting firm had been
verifying all requested payments prior to their submission. It has also been monitoring the
DIPA processes for all the PPKs of IRFF and IREP and has been managing the IRFF and
IREP special accounts. The FM consultant was properly staffed and financial
management aspects were generally in compliance with Bank procedures, Tighter
internal controls were introduced and, following the first implementation year, the FM
consultant was prompted to ensure better observance of deadlines for FM and audit
reports and stricter adherence to the FM manual.




                                            28
                  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
This annex is not applicable. The project involved purely capacity building and technical
assistance.




                                           29
 Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision
                             Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                    Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Aniruddha Dasgupta          Task Team Leader                         EASUR   Overall
Michel Kerf                 Infrastructure Policy Advisor            EASIN   Policy
Jerry Lebo                  Sr. Transport Specialist                 EASTR   Engineer
Zoe Elena Trohanis          Hazard Risk Management Specialist        TUDUR   Environment
Indira Dharmapatni          Sr. Operations Officer
                                                                     EASUR Social Safeguard
                            (resettlement/social)
Yogana Prasta               Sr. Disbursement Officer                 EACIF   Disbursement
Imad Saleh                  Lead Procurement Specialist              EAPCO   Procurement
Unggul Suprayitno           Financial Management Specialist          EAPCO   Financial
Steven Burgess              Sr. Social Development Specialist        EASSD   Social
Melinda Good                Counsel                                  LEGEA   Legal
Andre Bald                  Infrastructure Specialist (consultant)   EASUR   Engineer
Angus Mackay                Environment Advisor (consultant)         EASEN   Environment
Lauren Serota               Local Government Specialist
                                                                     EASSD Policy
                            (consultant)
Patrisia Mulita             Governance Specialist                    EASSD Governance
Geoffrey Read               Municipal Infrastructure Spec.
                                                                     EASUR Engineer
                            (consultant)
Anders Bonde                Transport Adviser (consultant)           EASTR Engineer
John Cameron                Financial Management Specialist
                                                                     EASUR Financial
                            (consultant)
Alun Phillips               Infrastructure Specialist (consultant)   EASTR Engineer
John Smithson               Urban Drainage Specialist
                                                                     EASUR Engineer
                            (consultant)
Kalpana Seethepalli         Infrastructure Economist
                                                                     EASIN Economist
                            (consultant)
Supervision/ICR
Khairy Al-Jamal             Project Team Leader                      EASIS Overall
Suhail Jme’an               Sr. Financial Analyst, ex-TTL            EASIN Financial
Dean A. Cira                Lead Urban Specialist, ex-TTL            EASVS Urban
Andre A. Bald               Sr. Infrastructure Specialist            EASVS Engineer
Indira Dharmapatni          Sr. Operations Officer                   EASIS Social Safeguard
Mesra Eza                   E T Consultant                           EASIS Engineer
                                                                           Engineer,
Lixin Gu                    Sr. Infrastructure Specialist            EASIN
                                                                           Coordinator
                                                                           ICR Primary
Reda Hamedoun               Transport Specialist                     EASIN
                                                                           Author
Kris Hedipriyantoko         E T Consultant                           EASIS Engineer


                                              30
 David A. Howarth          Consultant                        EASUR    Procurement
Imad Saleh                 Lead Procurement Specialist       EAPPR    Procurement
 Zhentu Liu                Sr. Procurement Specialist        EAPPR    Procurement
Enggar Prasetyaningsih     Procurement Specialist            EAPPR    Procurement
                           Municipal Infrastructure Spec.
Geoffrey Read                                                SASDU Engineer
                           (consultant)
Melinda Good               Counsel                           LEGEA Legal
                                                                   Environment
Andrew Daniel Sembel       Environmental Specialist          EASIS
                                                                   Safeguard
Agus Sjamsudin             Operations Officer                EASIS Engineer
                           Urban Drainage Specialist
John Smithson                                                 EASIN Engineer
                           (consultant)
                           Sr. Financial Management
Unggul Suprayitno                                            EAPFM Financial
                           Specialist
Mr. Purwanto               Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM    Financial
 Heinrich K. Unger         Consultant                        EASID    Environment
Achmad Affandi Nasution    Temporary                         EACIF    Governance
 Toyoko Kodama             Operations Officer                EASIN    Assistance
Murniati Sitorus           Team Assistant                    EASIS    Assistance
 Rebekka Hutabarat         Team Assistant                    EACIF    Assistance
 Ira Marina                Team Assistant                    EACIF    Assistance
 Evilia Nusi               Team Assistant                    EACIF    Assistance
Isabel Duarte A. Junior    Program Assistant                 EASIN    Assistance
 Sandra Walston            Temporary                         EASIN    Assistance
 Hiromi Yamaguchi          Consultant                        ECSS1    Assistance


(b) Staff Time and Cost1
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        US$ Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                          60.30                   355.09
  FY07                                           0.25                    -5.82
                           Total:               60.55                   349.27
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                           0.00                      0.00
  FY09                                           0.00                      0.00
   FY10                                          0.00                      0.61
  FY11                                           0.00                      0.00
  FY12                                           0.00                      0.00
                           Total:                0.00                      0.61
1. Almost all supervision costs of were covered from MDF supervision budget totaling
US$1,703,506.44. This is higher than the real cost as the supervision budget was shared
equally between the IREP and IRFF projects. Even allowing for this adjustment, a total



                                           31
supervision budget of US$852,000 over 5 years is approximately 2.4 times higher than
normal supervision coefficients for Indonesia.




                                          32
                      Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
This annex is not applicable.




                                      33
            Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
This annex is not applicable.




                                   34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
After reviewing the draft ICR, the Borrower provided an 8-page Completion Report in
Indonesian with a summary in English. This is intended to comprise both the Borrower’s
Completion Report, as well as their comments on the draft ICR. The English summary is
as below, and the full report is archived in the project files.

Unedited English Summary of the Borrower ICR

A. Introduction

Grant Agreement for the IREP program between The Government of Indonesia and The
World Bank is to improve control and monitoring of the implementation of infrastructure
reconstruction and rehabilitation in Aceh Province and Nias Island after the Tsunami and
Earthquake in Aceh and Nias Island in 2004.

The Program is designed to assist Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency (BRR NAD
-Nias) in managing IRFF program. As at that time BRR NAD-Nias has limited
reconstruction and rehabilitation implementation capacity with total budget for 4 years
amounted to Idr.11.3 trillion. Therefore, quality improvement, level of service and
coverage are required. This policy is called “Build Back Better?.

After the closing of BRR NAD –Nias on 16 April 2009, this program was handed over to
Ministry of Public Works coordinated by PMU RRI NAD–Nias. The Executing Agency
for the IREP program than is PMU RRI NAD-Nias Ministry of Public Works and the
Implementing Agency is the Directorate Pengembangan PLP under Directorate General
Cipta Karya to the closing of IREP Grant on 31 December 2011.

Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP) provides Strategic Planning,
Program Management, Program Priority of Provincial and City/District Government,
Supply, Quality Control, Capacity Building for Cities/Districts Government, and
Community outreach. To improve internal control, The World Bank required the External
Audit from Public Accountant (KAP). So the IREP component consists of 6 packages of
consultancy activities.

B. Major Factors Affecting the Implementation and Result
   1. Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) consultant does not understand the
      scope of work so that there are some activities that cannot be implemented, like;
      i.      Capacity Building, for BRR Infrastructure and local government
      ii.     Internet-based Monitoring Information System (MIS) for BRR NAD-Nias
              infrastructure
      iii.    Coordination of Donor Funding for Activities planned in Strategic
              Infrastructure Planning for Aceh and Nias
      So that the employer re-scooping the IPM contract.




                                          35
   2. Planning, Design and Construction Supervision (PDCS).
      a. Inaccurate design which resulted in many design changes by the time of
         implementation and preparation of MC-0 which spent a lot of time in
         technical justification process.
      b. Task Concept implementation does not work
         i.       Nias PDCS (DHV)’s recommendation on rate adjustment claim for
                  RR.02 and RR.03 project is considered ineligible payment by The
                  World Bank.
         ii.      Lack of understanding on physical contract aspect from PDCS
                  Consultant personnel.
         iii.     PDCS consultant cannot manage the physical implementation so that
                  many projects are not completed on time.
         iv.      The PDCS performance liability is not specific only for the IREP
                  Contract but it also covers the whole project handled by the respective
                  PDCS which make it difficult to withdraw.
         v.       Different opinion with Auditor (BPK) in Task Concept
                  implementation. BPK assume that Satker/PPK is responsible for the
                  project. However, in the Task Concept implementation the responsible
                  party in project implementation is Consultant (PDCS).
   3. Procurement
          The use of e-procurement is required by the Government while The World
              Bank does not allow using it.
          The World Bank allows the contract value exceeds the Engineer Estimate,
              but in view of Auditor (BPK) it is a violation against the rules.
          Contract cannot be signed before AMDAL and LARAP document made
              available on project required the document, for example in JP.6 project
              (LARAP) and P.5 (AMDAL Kuala Langsa Port).
   4. Environmental,
          Environmental budget allocation in IRFF contract, there has been some
              perceptions from the Auditor (BPK) in its use with The World Bank Aide
              Memoire which required CEAP with environmental allocated budget in
              each IRFF project.
          SOP for the environmental budget use is not clear between the contractor
              obligation for the environmental control with CEAP, for example on
              working floor at AMP site to avoid oil and asphalt waste. In BPK’s
              opinion it is the responsibility of the contractor however, during the
              Supervision Mission The World Bank instruction that the environmental
              budget in IRFF contract can be utilized.

C. World Bank Performance
   The World Bank is good in regular coordination and monitoring which has been
   contributed a lot in achieving the good quality of the program implementation. This
   can be observed from the regular Supervision Missions carried out actively with the
   central and local government in solving problems for the improvement of the program.
   In BPK’s audit result on IREP and IRFF project, The World Bank responsibility
   contribution is bias. The World Bank seems indecisive on the BPK’s findings,


                                          36
   especially on procurement process for contracts which exceed Engineer Estimate and
   environmental budget allocation in IRFF contract. When the Auditor (BPK) requested
   The World Bank clarification, the World Bank’s response as addressed to the Head of
   BPK, stated that the “NOL? issued by the World Bank is not an “approval? but a
   “no objection?. According to The World Bank the approval is the responsibility of the
   Government of Indonesia. On the PDCS (RH & DHV) cases (failure in making
   design and construction supervision), The World Bank cannot take action against the
   consultant even the Aide Memoire of the World Bank Supervision Mission has
   mentioned the consultant’s mistake, for example in WS.1, WS.3A and Nias JK.2.
   In construction implementation target, The World Bank is not so firm in achieving the
   target date of the project implementation. The World Bank focused on Quality and
   Safeguard. Many projects exceed the contract completion date which resulted in
   additional cost to the project as well as to the supervision consultant.

D. Borrower Performance
   The Government of Indonesia as the IREP Grant Recipient in general has carried out
   its responsibility in completion of the IREP Program funded by the MDF Grant TF-
   056894 per Grant Agreement signed by BRR NAD-Nias. And later carried on by the
   Ministry of Public Works through PMU has performed its function as an Executing
   Agency for IREP and IRFF Grant, especially to coordinate the stakeholder in
   ministries/institution level, provincial and local government level. After the closing of
   the BRR, the executing of IREP and IRFF program handed over to Ministry of Public
   Works and PMU RRI NAD - Nias was set up to perform the function. However, since
   the program was handed over to Ministry of Public Works the IREP and IRFF
   implementation is handled by respective sectoral unit and should follow normal
   procedure thus PMU RRI only to perform coordination function with donors.
   Therefore, Satker and PPK’s performance depends on the performance of unit in each
   sector.

E. Lesson Learned
   1. IPM Consultant as PMU Advisor was unable to perform its function optimally.
   There are several activities of the IPM function which finallly cannot be implemented
   like, Capacity Building, MIS and Donor Funding Coordination due to lack of
   understanding on the scope of work.
   2. PDCS Consultant Task Concept cannot be fully implemented by the PDCS
   consultant for the IRFF projects due to the PDCS personnel’s lack of understanding
   on the contractual aspect. The Task Concept implemented mostly through guidance
   from Satker/PPK, QA IPM as PMU Advisor, PMU and The World Bank during the
   site visit. There was a decision that recommended by the PDCS which is not accepted
   to The World Bank like on rate adjustment claim on IRFF project RR.02 and RR.03
   Nias.
   3. Financial Management Consultant provides a very helpful assistance to PIU in
   verification of invoice from IREP Consultant and Contractor as well as to PMU in
   financial report preparation to donor and Ministry of Finance.




                                            37
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

IREP ICR Comments:
MDF Secretariat comments are provided below. These comments do not necessarily
reflect the views of the donors or the Steering Committee.
________________________________________________________________________

The Multi Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias (MDF) was established to support the
implementation of the Government of Indonesia’s (GOI’s) rehabilitation and
reconstruction program after the December 2004 tsunami and subsequent March
2005 earthquake. At the request of the government, the World Bank serves as the trustee
to administer the MDF. The MDF is governed by a Steering Committee comprised of
donors, GOI, and civil society representatives, with the United Nations and international
non-governmental organizations participating as observers. The donors contributing to
the MDF are: the European Union, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the World
Bank, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Germany, Canada, the Asian Development Bank, the
United States of America, Belgium, Finland, New Zealand and Ireland. The MDF pools
about US$655 million in grant resources provided by these 15 donors, an amount
equivalent to about 10% of the overall reconstruction efforts. As of March 31, 2012, the
MDF has committed US$650 million to 23 projects in five outcome areas: recovery of
communities, recovery of large infrastructure and transport, strengthening governance
and capacity building, supporting sustainable management of the environment, economic
development and livelihoods, and providing support to enhance the overall reconstruction
process.

The MDF followed a phased strategy in supporting the reconstruction. With
infrastructure investments following immediate recovery needs. The Infrastructure
Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP), and its companion project, the Infrastructure
Reconstruction Financing Facility (IRFF), were designed to work in tandem, with IREP
providing the technical support for strategic planning, project design, implementation and
supervision to support projects constructed through the IRFF and other and other sources.
These two projects were part of the second wave of the MDF’s reconstruction projects
which focused on the reconstruction of large infrastructure given the complexity of
investments and higher quality assurance, design and implementation requirements of
infrastructure. The first wave of projects covered immediate response activities that
addressed emergency, housing and community reconstruction needs.

The IREP and IRFF projects formed a key component of the MDF portfolio. The
overall contribution by the MDF to large infrastructure reconstruction totals about 35
percent of funds allocated by the MDF to the reconstruction. The largest allocation to a
single project under MDF was made to the Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing
Facility (US$ 136.7 million, including the additional financing). IREP played a critical
role in supporting IRFF activities, and together these two projects contributed US$ 178.7
million, or 27 percent of total MDF allocations to projects.


                                           38
Significant results have been achieved by IREP and the associated IRFF programs.
Through IREP, designs were completed for 56 subprojects that were funded through
IRFF. These subprojects include national, provincial and district roads, ports, water
supply and sanitation systems, as well as a waste management facility. These projects
have contributed to the construction of a strategic transportation network across Aceh and
Nias, and have provided basic services for the population of Aceh. IREP consultants also
provided technical support and supervision of the physical works. Originally IREP was
envisaged to support the whole reconstruction effort, but BRR requested that the scope of
IREP be reduced to mainly focus on the MDF investments, implemented through IRFF.

The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has demonstrated its commitment to the
rebuilding of quality infrastructure throughout the reconstruction effort. MDF grant
funds were supplemented by over US$100 million in GoI co-financing for IRFF. This co-
financing arrangement facilitated the integration of donor and government support for
reconstruction of infrastructure. A few projects that were designed under IREP, but were
not completed under IRFF at project closure, were thereafter completed by GOI using
Government funds. This also applies to subcontracts entered into by the GOI for
construction of physical works with end dates beyond the closing date of IRFF and IREP.
This demonstrates increased likelihood of sustainability given GOI ownership of assets
generated and investments made by the IREP and IRFF.

IREP and IRFF overcame various challenges in the successful reconstruction of
large infrastructure in Aceh and Nias. The projects were operating in a post-disaster
context, embedded in a post-conflict context. This complex context meant that
government and local contractor capacity were lacking, having been affected by the 30
years of conflict in that area, which was further compounded by the huge human toll and
widespread devastation of Aceh and Nias. The remoteness and topographical challenges
of Nias, together with the debilitating wet season also created a challenging
implementing environment. Striking a balance between speed of implementation and
ensuring construction quality is a recurring challenge in post-disaster situations. IREP
and IRFF also struggled to achieve an acceptable balance between speed and quality of
implementation, while maintaining the World Bank’s position of “no compromise? on
quality of construction, a position that was backed by the MDF and donors. After the
closure of BRR, many MDF-funded projects faced challenges in transitioning from BRR
implementation to regular line ministries for the continuation of reconstruction. For
IREP and IRFF, the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), which had had implementing
responsibility for these projects under BRR, took over these projects, providing
continuity throughout the life of the projects. The achievements of the projects must be
seen in the context of urgent disaster reconstruction challenges, and not necessarily
measured against the usual, more stable conditions that prevail for Bank loans and credits.

The MDF has commissioned a working paper to document the key lessons learned
from the MDF’s operations in the Infrastructure Sector in a post-disaster and post-
conflict context. The working paper will focus on the strategy and approaches adopted
by the MDF for reconstruction of large infrastructure, documenting achievements and



                                           39
lessons learned. At the time of submission of this ICR, the working paper is still under
preparation. Once completed, it will be available through the World Bank’s website for
those interested in the MDF’s experience and lessons learned in infrastructure
reconstruction. In the meantime, valuable lessons at various levels can already be drawn
from the project. These include lessons in the implementation of the project, progress
reporting and sustainability of assets created:

       In a reconstruction context, the balance between speed and quality is critical.
       The MDF tried to do this through its phased approach, but it was a challenge and
       remained so throughout the life of the MDF. The MDF supported the WB’s
       decision that no compromise should be made on the quality of works designed
       and implemented under the reconstruction. With appropriate supervision by the
       IREP consultants, contracts with subcontractors who did not perform to the
       required standards were terminated. This points to the commitment of the WB to
       not compromise on quality issues.

       The IREP and IRFF projects developed an important safeguards model
       which the GoI has now adopted as good practice. The preparation of
       Construction Environmental Action Plans (CEAP), for IRFF implemented
       projects, was introduced under IREP and has now been accepted as good practice
       by the MPW. MPW in Lhokseumawe has indicated that CEAP preparation has
       been introduced as a requirement for future MPW road construction design.

       Separating technical assistance and design elements from project financing
       allowed for a more strategic approach to infrastructure reconstruction. The
       IREP project focused on supporting a strategic approach to infrastructure, with
       attention to design and quality issues that had impact beyond the IRFF-funded
       projects only.

       Robust M&E systems are needed in order to capture project results. The MIS
       of the project was not fully functional; hence, the overall project results were not
       adequately documented. The Results Framework for IREP was focused on
       project outcomes; however, specific and measurable project outputs were limited.
       Inclusion of outputs would have contributed to better progress reporting over the
       lifespan of the program, even for a TA project such as IREP. The balance of
       output and outcome based indicators is always a challenge, especially given the
       continuously evolving nature of disaster reconstruction.

IREP, working in tandem with IRFF, has significantly contributed to the success of
the MDF at various levels. The partnerships forged with government to reconstruct a
strategic transportation network across Aceh and Nias will continue to benefit the
economic development of the region after the closure of the MDF. The project managed
to strike a good balance between quality and speed of reconstruction, and offers a model
for good practice which the MPW has adopted.




                                           40
                 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Project Appraisal Document
2.   Grant Agreement
3.   Mission Aide Memoires
4.   Implementation Status Reports
5.   Project paper
6.   MDF Midterm review




                                     41
                                                   95°E                                                                   96°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                INDONESIA
                                                                                                                                                        INFRASTRUCTURE RECONSTRUCTION AND
                                                                                                                                                     REHABILITATION PROGRAM FOR ACEH AND NIAS
                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT AREAS                                                                    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL ROADS                                                                   KABUPATEN CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                             PROVINCIAL ROADS                                                                 PROVINCE CAPITAL
             6°N                                                                                                                   6°N                                       RAILROADS                                                                        KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARY
                                                          We                        Sabang

                                                                                                                                                                                                    97°E                                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.

                                    Breueh                                                                                                                                                                           St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank


                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                  Banda Aceh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   it
                                                       Lhoknga                                                       Sigli                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lhokseumawe
                                                                             Seulimeum                                          Taupingraya
                                                                                                                                         Meureudu                 Bireun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lhok Sukon                   M
                                                                                            Jantho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ac
                                                                      Lamno
                                                                                                           Keumala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ca
             5°N                                                                                                                              Lutung                                                Cot Girek                                                                                               5°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Peureulak
                                                                                                                                          Geumpang

                                                                       Calang
                                                                                                                                                                  Takengon                                                      Peunaron
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Langsa
                                                                                                                                                                  Ceulala                                                                                           Karang Baru
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Uwak




                                                                                                                                                       Jeuram
                                                                                                                    Meulaboh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pangkalan-
                                                                                                                              Kutanibong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Blangkejeren                                                       brandan
             4°N
                                                                                                                                                                  Lamie


                                                                                                                                                                   Blang Pidie


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kutacane



                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tapaktuan



                                                                                                                                                                                                              Kandang
             3°N                                          Pulau-pulau
                                                               Kokos
                                                                                                  Lewak                                                                                                                       Bakungan
                                                                                                                        Sibigo



                                                                                 Simeulue
                                                                                                                   Nasreheu                                                                                                                       Rundeng
                                                                                                                                       Inor                   Sinabang
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P. Balee
                                                                                                                                                                  Lasikin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ti. Nibong      Singkil

                                                                                                                                                               Lasia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tuangku
                                                                                                                                                                   Babi                    Bangkaru
             2°N




                             INDIAN OCEAN

                                                95°E                                                                  96°E


                                          MYANMAR                                                                        Northern
                                                                      VIETNAM                                            Mariana
                   INDIA                               THAILAND                                                       Islands (U.S.)
                                                           CAMBODIA                                                          Guam (U.S.)                MARSHALL
                                                                                                PHILIPPINES                                             ISLANDS

                             SRI LANKA


                                                                                                                                                                                                              Nias
                                                                           BRUNEI                          PALAU
                                   Area of                M A L AY S I A
                  MALDIVES                                                                                            FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA
                                     Map                                                                                                                                    1°N                                                                                                                             1°N
            0˚                                                    SINGAPORE
                                                                                                                                                              NAURU
                                                                  I    N     D      O   N   E     S    I      A        PAPUA
                                                                                                                       NEW GUINEA                       SOLOMON
                                                                                                TIMOR-LESTE                                             ISLANDS


                        INDIAN OCEAN                                                                                                                                              0   10    20    30     40    50 Kilometers
            15˚S                                                                                                                                     VANUATU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 34927




                                                                                                                                              New Caledonia                       0        10      20         30         40      50 Miles
JULY 2006




                                                                                                A U S T R A L I A                                (France)

                                                                                                                                                                                                  97°E                                                                  98°E
                 75˚E                    90˚E               105˚E                                                                                         165˚E
