Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T7478-ER
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT OF
SDR 48.1 MILLION
(US$60 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE STATE OF ERITREA
FOR AN
EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
April 22,2002
Afth3
Africa Human Development, Group 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Nakfa 13.6
April 1, 2002
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BE                            Bank of Eritrea
BOP                           Balance of Payments
CBE                           Commercial Bank of Eritrea
ECDF                          Eritrea Community Development Fund
DTF                           Demobilization Task Force
EDRP                          Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
EPLF                          Eritrea People's Liberation Front
ERN                           Eritrean Nakfa
ERP                           Emergency Reconstruction Program
GOE                           Government of Eritrea
HAMSET                        HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB Project
ICB                           International Competitive Bidding
IDA                           International Development Association
IDPs                          Internaly Displaced Persons
ISS                           Interim Support Strategy
LIB                           Limited International Bidding
MIS                           Management Information System
MLHW                          Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare
MOA                           Ministry of Agriculture
MOD                           Ministry of Defense
MOE                           Ministry of Education
MOF                           Ministry of Finance
MOLG                          Ministry of Local Government
MOPW                          Ministry of Public Works
NCB                           National Competitive Bidding
NCDRP                         National Commission for Demobilization & Reintegration Program
NGO                           Non-Governmental Organization
NUEW                          National Union of Eritrean Women
NUEYS                         National Union of Eritrean Youth and Students
RFP                           Request for Proposals
TSN                           Transitional Safety Net
TSS                           Transitional Support Strategy
TSZ                           Temporary Security Zone
UNDP                          United Nations Development Program
UNHCR                         United Nations High Commissioner for Retigees
UNICEF                        United Nations Children's Fund
UNMEE                         United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea
VCT                           Voluntary Counseling and Testing
Vice President:    Cailisto Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:    Makhtar Diop, AFC0S
Sector Manager:     Arvll Van Adams, AFTH3
Team Leader:      Wim Alberts, AFTH1



ERITREA
EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
A.    BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY ...................................1
I.   Background to the Conflict ...................................1
H.   Humanitarian Impact ..........................1........  
III.  Economic Impact ..................................                     l1
IV.   Government Response ..................................2
V.   International Response ...................................3
B.    BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY ...................................3
I.  The Elements of Bank Response ...................................3
II.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ..................................4
HI.   Lessons Learned ...................................4
C.    DETAILED PROGRAM DESCRIPTION ................................ ,  S5
I.  Program Objectives ................................5
II.  Project Costs and Financing ................................5
III.  Project Components ................................8
D.    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION21
I.  Institutional Arrangements....................................21
II.  Financial Management, Auditing and Reporting .23
III.  Procurement ..25...... 25
IV. Project Monitoring and Evaluation .27
V.    Program Sustainability....................................28
VI. Conditions of Effectiveness .29
VII. Benefits .......                                                       29
VIII. Risks              ..29
IX. Environmental and Social Aspects .30
E. ACTION PLAN .31
Attachment I: Organizational Chart - EDRP - Central Office .32
Attachment II: Cost Estimates .34
Attachment III: Financial Management Assessment .35
Attachment IV: Procurement .40
Attachment V: Micro Finance and Micro Business Development Services .44
Map: IBRD 31065






Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex 1
A.     BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY
I.     Background to the Conflict
1.    Eritrea's struggle for independence began in 1961, following the annexation of Eritrea by
Ethiopia, and intensified following the military coup in Ethiopia in 1974. The Eritrean People's
Liberation Front (EPLF) gained control of Eritrea in May 1991. Following an internationally
supervised referendum, Eritrea gained independence on May 24, 1993.
2.     Open conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia erupted in May 1998, as a consequence of a
dispute over their common border in the Badme region. Until May 2000, the fighting was
restricted to a relatively limited area within Eritrea displacing some 270,000 people from the
border areas. However, on May 12, 2000, and for five weeks thereafter, the war took on far larger
proportions with far more dramatic consequences . On this occasion, Ethiopian troops advanced
approximately 100 km deep into Eritrean territory, causing an even more dramatic humanitarian
crisis as well as widespread destruction of physical infrastructure.
3.     The two countries agreed to a Cessation of Hostilities on June 18, 2000, and signed a
comprehensive Peace Accord on December 12, 2000. The agreement called for the withdrawal of
the Ethiopian army from Eritrean territory and the deployment of a UN peacekeeping force along
a 25 kilometer-wide Temporary Security Zone (TSZ) between the two countries until the border
is demarcated by a neutral Boundary Commission. The UN Security Council authorized the
establishment of a United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE) in July 2000, and a
peacekeeping force of up to 4,200 in September 2000. The peacekeeping force was fully
deployed by March 2001. UNMEE announced the formal establishment of the TSZ on April 18,
2001, following the redeployment of Eritrean forces to the northern boundary of the TSZ. The
establishment of the TSZ allows for the restoration of civil administration and the return of
internally displaced persons (IDPs) to the areas of the TSZ.
II.    Humanitarian Impact
47     The escalation of fighting in May 2000 had a severe humanitarian impact. The most
dranatic consequence was the sudden displacement of approximately 1.1 million people. This
represented 70 % of the population of the Gash Barka and Debub regions, which host 47 percent
of the total Eritrean population and contribute 70 percent of its total grain production. An
estimated 75,000 Eritreans and Ethiopians of Eritrean origin have also been forcibly deported
from Ethiopia.
5.    The war has had a severely detrimental impact on local food production capacity, and the
Government of Eritrea (GOE)JUN needs assessment undertaken at the end of 2000 determined
that 1.76 million rural people would require varying levels of food aid during 2001. This negative
impact of the war on the country's food security has been further compounded by drought. Some
738,000 people in Eritrea are estimated to have been affected by drought, many of whom had also
been directly affected by the war.
III.   Economic Impact
6.     Since the armed conflict began in May 1998, Eritrea has suffered substantial economic
stress. The direct war damage; humanitarian needs for the internally displaced; mobilization of
some 200,000 men and women; increases in military spending; drought; decline in private sector
activity and loss of port revenues, have all combined to depress the economy. Having averaged 7



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex              2
percent between 1994-97, the real GDP growth rate fell significantly during the war and became
negative in 2000 at -10.9 percent. Inflation averaged 3.7 percent in 1997 and rose to 19.9 percent
in 2000. The budget deficit increased to 48.1 percent of GDP in 2000 from 5.6 percent in 1997.
The war has threatened Eritrea's efforts to reduce poverty. With a per capita income among the
lowest in Africa (US$200), Eritrea is one of the poorest countries in the world. Furthermore, most
of the country's social indicators, such as average life expectancy (51 years) and infant mortality
(135 per 1,000 live births), tend to be lower than the averages for Sub-Saharan Africa.
7.     The mobilization and maintenance of the troops enlisted for the war contributed
significantly to the fiscal stress. The maintenance costs with regards to the wage bill (not
including individual food and household allowances) are estimated to average US$60 million per
year. These expenditures are a significant drain on the national budget. Furthermore, the absence
of a significant proportion of the labor force from active economic life has impacted the economy
negatively. Many government offices and public and private enterprises have come close to a
standstill over the last two years because a large part of the manpower, including staff in key
positions, is still mobilized.
8.     Following the signing of the Cessation of Hostilities agreement in June 2000, the
immediate priorities were to find the fiscal space to finance rehabilitation expenditures and to
stabilize the economy. Critical measures to achieve these goals are reductions in military
expenditure and mobilization of donor aid. Substantial inflows of donor aid for humanitarian
relief and for rehabilitation have, so far, met the most imnediate needs.
9.     Preliminary estimates for 2001 suggest that there has been good progress in stabilizing
the economy through the first quarter of 2001. Inflation fell from 26.8 percent at the end of 2000,
to 7.7 percent by end 2001 thanks to tight fiscal policy that limited recourse to domestic bank
financing of the deficit. The budget deficit fell from 48.1 percent of GDP for 2000 to 32.7 percent
of GDP in 2001.
IV.    Govermnent Response
10.   The Government and the people of Eritrea immediately reacted to the humanitarian crisis
on two fronts: (i) by providing emergency relief and assistance to the IDPs and the host
communities; and (ii) by organizing the available human and financial resources to start
rehabilitating the areas damaged by the recent invasion. GOE also appealed for foreign
humanitarian and reconstruction assistance in response to the crisis that evolved as a result of the
war.
11.   In November 2000, following the deployment of the UNMEE peacekeeping force and
prompted by significant progress in the peace process, GOE announced its intention to launch a
demobilization and reintegration program, building on the previous GOE program, international
experiences and best practice. In November 2000, GOE requested the Bank to provide technical
assistance in the preparation of a comprehensive demobilization and reintegration program in
collaboration with UNDP and other development partners. GOE plans to reduce its army by two
thirds and demobilize 200,000 troops within a two-year time frame. The troops to be demobilized
consist of remobilized ex-soldiers, people serving in the mandatory National Service program,
and soldiers from the regular armed forces. To lead this effort, GOE established a National
Commission for the Demobilization and Reintegration Program (NCDRP) by proclamation on
April 10, 2001.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex            3
V.     International Response
12.   Since the outbreak of hostilities in May 1998, most donors have responded favorably to
the different humanitarian appeals put out by the Government. A consolidated appeal to seek
international support for emergency and relief needs was launched by ERREC in collaboration
with the UN in February 2001, for US$132 million.
13.   Following the signing of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement on June 18, 2000, most
donors have resumed development activities in Eritrea. In support of the GOE's overriding
objectives of rebuilding the economy and restoring social services, the Bank helped GOE prepare
and coordinate a US$288 million multi-donor Emergency Reconstruction Program (ERP). This
ERP is to assist Eritrea rebuild its physical and social infrastructure, help displaced and drought-
affected people resume economic activities and rebuild their lives, and assist GOE to procure
essential imports through balance of payments (BOP) support. In addition to an IDA credit of
US$90 mnillion, which was approved in November 2000, ERP is financed by the European Union,
Italy, Denmark, France, the African Development Bank, and GOE. This is complemented by a
US$16 million United Nations Development Program (UNDP)/GOE emergency and
rehabilitation program, financed by the Italian Government, and several non-governmental
organization (NGO)-assisted projects. The 2001 UN Consolidated Inter-Agency Appeal for
Eritrea was launched in January 2001 with the aim of raising US$133.2 million for support of
activities, such as food security, voluntary repatriation and reintegration, health and nutrition,
family shelter and household items, mine action, water supply and environmental sanitation, and
education. By July 25, 2001, 40 percent of the requirement was raised.
14.   UNDP provided critical support through an exploratory mission on demobilization and
reintegration of soldiers in October 2000, and a small preparatory project to support the GOE
planning process.
B.     BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
1.     The Elements of Bank Response
15.   From the outbreak of hostilities in May 1998 to the signing of the cessation of hostilities
agreement in June 2000, no new lending operations were approved for Eritrea. However, the
Bank maintained its ongoing portfolio and continued with the preparation of new projects for
presentation to the Board once the time would be appropriate. The focus would be on urgent,
high-impact operations, which would have large benefits for the poor and an unquestionable
developmental impact.
16.   During the last outbreak of hostilities and the unfolding of the humanitarian crisis, the
Bank received a request from the GOE for emergency assistance. With the signing of the
Cessation of Hostilities, the Bank reallocated a total of US$24.9 million from other ongoing IDA
projects in Eritrea to emergency support (essential drugs and other urgently needed medical
supplies; water supply and sanitation subprojects in areas with high concentrations of IDPs;
nutritional supplements, kitchen utensils, stoves, agricultural inputs, and associated transport
services). In July 2000, the Board approved the Eritrea Early Childhood Development Project
(US$40 million), the first new lending operation in two years. In addition to the US$90 million
credit for ERP, which was approved in November 2000, the Bank has also formulated the
HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs & TB Control Project (HAMSET), which was approved in December



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex             4
2000. The total cost of HAMSET is US$60 million, of which US$40 million is covered by an
IDA credit.
17.   Upon invitation by GOE, an IDA identification mission visited Eritrea in December
2000. The Government, the IDA mission and the international donor community reached
consensus that a demobilization and reintegration program was crucial for the social and
economic recovery of Eritrea, and that a comprehensive approach to the Emergency
Demobilization and Reintegration Program was essential. Following the signing of the Peace
Accord on December 12, 2000, GOE requested the international donor community to launch a
multi-donor assessment rission in January 2001 to prepare the Emergency Demobilization and
Reintegration Program (EDRP) This was jointly organized by the Bank and UNDP. The mission
provided technical assistance to GOE for the main components of the program, and prepared a
comprehensive EDRP framework proposal with detailed technical notes. A Post-Conflict Fund
grant of US$973,000 was approved by the Bank in January 2001, to assist the GOE set up its
institutional structure and make technical preparations.
II.    Rationale for Bank Involvement
18.   The demobilization of Eritrean soldiers is a crucial element of the ongoing peace process.
GOE will be able to reinforce its commnitment to the peace process through the effective
preparation and implementation of the project. Failure by Eritrea to demobilize a sizeable portion
of its armed forces could jeopardize the peace process. In order to grasp the opportunity that the
potential peace dividend presents, the Government has given high priority to the objectives of the
EDRP and to integrating demobilized soldiers into sustainable productive activities.
19.   As a precursor to a more detailed Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), the Bank finalized
an Interim Support Strategy (ISS) for Eritrea in November 2000. The ISS outlines the Bank's
assistance strategy to the Government in the transition to peace over the next 12-18 months. It
also identified the two immediate priorities: demobilization and support to macroeconomic
management. A major precept of the ISS was the GOE's recognition of the fact that
demobilization was crucial to achieving macroeconomic and fiscal balance.
20.    The conflict with Ethiopia led to the diversion of scarce resources from potentially
productive (agriculture, industry and basic social services) to non-productive (military) sectors.
The EDRP is expected to facilitate the reallocation of public resources from military expenditures
to productive and social investments. The demobilization will also alleviate manpower constraints
faced by the government and private businesses, and thus contribute to a resumption of critical
economic activity. The reduction of military spending will furthermore help ease the fiscal
deficit, and is thus crucial to achieving macroeconomic and fiscal balance in the longer term.
III.   Lessons Learned
21.    The preparation and implementation of the Eritrea EDRP builds on international best
practices concerning demobilization and reintegration and on Eritrea's own experience with such
projects. Some important lessons learned from international experience (Cambodia, Chad,
Djibouti, Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, and Uganda) include: (i)
the full transition from demobilization to reinsertion and reintegration needs to be supported in
order to achieve primary objectives; (ii) to facilitate sustainable reintegration, it is crucial to
provide a short-term social safety net to demobilized soldiers (i.e. reinsertion assistance); (iii)
information and referral systems can play an important role in linking demobilized soldiers to
existing employment opportunities; (iv) duplication of implementation structures should be



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex           5
avoided; and (v) the creation of more viable long-term employment is closely linked to a
conducive macroeconomic environment and restoration of private sector confidence.
22.    Some important lessons learned from previous experience in Eritrea include: (i) despite
their rural background most of the ex-soldiers (80 percent) ended up in urban areas in search of
training or jobs; (ii) although 89 percent of the ex-soldiers aimed at upgrading their education,
only some 15 percent managed to do so; (iii) many ex-soldiers faced difficulties handling the
credit they had received; and (iv) the reintegration project component suffered from a lack of
funds and experienced staff. Additional lessons learned that have guided the design of the EDRP
include:
*  A socio-economic profile of the demobilized soldiers must be undertaken in the early
planning stages, so that projects and services are responding to the specific needs and
characteristics of those being demobilized. Important sub-groups should be analyzed
separately and in detail (such as disabled, women, younger demobilized, i.e. under 25);
*  More attention should be paid to the psycho-social needs and support services for the
demobilized soldiers and their families than was provided in the previous Demobilization and
Reintegration Project in Eritrea;
*  Reintegration projects implemented at the community level should be inclusive, providing
support for IDPs and other war-affected populations, as well as demobilized soldiers;
*  Follow-up and monitoring capacity is necessary to ensure that the projects supporting
reintegration can respond to the evolving and newly identified needs of the demobilized
soldiers, their families and communities; and
*  EDRP projects should be implemented, as much as possible, by line ministries and existing
projects or organizations, so as not to create parallel structures and implementation
arrangements. Capacity building to expand the delivery capabilities should be an important
component of the EDRP and will contribute to longer-term economic recovery initiatives.
C.    DETAILED PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
I.     Program Objectives
23.    The overall development objectives of the Government's Demobilization and
Reintegration Program are:
(i)    demobilize and provide reinsertion support to up to 200,000 soldiers, in a phased project
for a period of 18-24 months;
(ii)  support the social and economic reintegration of demobilized soldiers into communities
for a period of 3-4 years, including strengthening of institutional capacities of relevant
government and local implementing partners;
(iii)  support macro-economic stability.
II.    Project Costs and Financing
24.   The overall size of the project is estimated to be US$197 million, of which IDA will
finance US$60 million, and the Government and other donors will contribute the remnaining
resources. Table 1 provides an overview of the agreed cost estimates for the EDRP. The costing is



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex               6
based on unit cost per component and the number of soldiers expected to be demobilized, The
unit costs are based on international DRP experience, adjusted for local economic conditions (see
Attachment II for more detailed cost estimates).
Table 1: Estimated Demobilization and Reintegration Program Costs
Component                 Total         Percent
Millions
US$
Demobilization                      9,250,000        4.7
Reinsertion (cash)                105,000,000       53.2
Reinsertion (in kind)              15,000,000        7.6
Reintegration (NCDRP)              35,000,000        17.7
Reintegration (Sector Programs)    15,000,000        7.6
Special Target Groups               2,000,000        1.0
Institutional Strengthening         1,200,000        0.6
Executive Secretariat (capital)     1,400,000        0.7
Executive Secretariat (recurrent)   4,000,000        2.0
Sub-Total                         187,850,000       95.0
Contingencies 5%                    9,393,000        5.0
Total                            197,243,000        100
25.    Table 2 below, provides the prelimninary financing plan for the first phase and the overall
EDRP. The total cost for the first phase EDRP is estimated at US$71 million. Based on the
commitments of the Dutch government, the Multi Donor Trust Fund would be able to provide
US$5 million for the first phase of the EDRP. WFP would be able to provide the equivalent of
US$6 million in food assistance. It is expected that GOB and the donor community will provide
the resources for the second and third phase of the EDRP.
Table 2: Preliminary Demobilization and Reintegration Program Financing Plan
Source              First Phase      Overall
Millions US$    Millions US$
IDA                                60             60
Multi-Donor Trust Fund              5             107
Sector Programs                                    15
WFP                                 6              15
Total                              71             197
26.    Table 3 provides the planned allocation of the IDA Credit across program components.
The IDA Credit will finance US$3 million of the demobilization component, US$42 million of
the reinsertion component, US$12 million of the reintegration component, US$1 million for
operating and technical assistance costs. The IDA Credit allocation for reintegration is distributed
across the following sub-components: (i) Savings and Micro-Credit Program - US$5million; (ii)
Micro Business Development Services - US$2 million; (iii) capacity building and
implementation of skills training, rural development and special target group interventions -
US$3 million; (iv) public works - US$1 million; and (v) absorption into existing reintegration
programs and projects - US$1 million.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex             7
Table 3: Allocation of IDA Credit by EDRP Components
Costs
EDRP Components                           (US$ million)  Percent
Demobilization                                  1            2
Reinsertion                                    42           70
Reintegration                                  12           20
Savings Micro-Credit Program                 5
Micro Business Development Services          2
Capacity Building:
- Vocational Training                     I
- Rural Development                       1
- Vulnerable Groups (Disabled)            1
Public Works                                 1
Absorption Demobilized Soldiers in           1
Existing Programs/Projects
Operating Costs/Technical Assistance            2            3
Unalocated   _   __                             3            5
Total                                          60          100
27.    The Government has requested that the World Bank establish and administer a multi-
donor trust fund to raise the grant funding from the donor community for the purpose of
implementing the EDRP. The Government recognizes that a trust fund for the EDRP would:
ensure a comprehensive response to the program; facilitate the involvement of donors that might
otherwise not be able to participate; minimize duplication of efforts and reduce the admninistrative
burden on government through the application of one set of implementation procedures. The
signing of the first Administrative Agreement between the World Bank and the Government of
the Netherlands, and the related Grant Agreement with the GOE are scheduled for May 2002. In
addition to the Dutch, several donors have indicated their interest in contributing to such a
financial mechanism and formal pledges amounting to US$65 million were made to the EDRP
during the September 2001 Partners Meeting in Asmara. Following the freeze on new
commitments for development assistance from the European Union and many of its member
states, in October 2001, these pledges have, however, become subject to delay.
28.    Activities under the social and economic reintegration component will initially be
coordinated and financed through the NCDRP. These activities will largely be implemented
and/or technically supervised by line ministries. Reintegration activities will be increasingly
financed directly through targeted components in existing, or forthcoming, government Sector
Programs, supported technically and financially by the donor community. These sector operations
are expected to be scaled up to absorb the demobilized soldiers and other war-affected
populations. Table 4 provides the program costs by cost category and proposed funding sources.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex             8
Table 4: Allocation of Program Costs by Cost Category and Funding Sources
Cost Categories       Total     Proposed IDA  Multi- Donor   Sector    Proposed
Program     (*US$1000)       TF        Programs     WFP
(*US$1000)                (*US$1000)    (*US$1000)  (*US1OW4)
1 Works                    1,000         450           550         -           -
2 Supplies, Equipment      6,000        1,000         2,000       3,000        -
&Vehicles
3 Technical Assistance     3,300        1,000         1,300       1,000        -
4 Reintegration Sub-      52,000       12,000        30,000      10,000        -
Projects / Micro
Credits
5 Reinsertion Packages   120,000       42,000        63,000        -         15,000
6 Operating Costs          5,550        1,000         4,550        -           -
7 Unallocated              9,393        2,550         5,843       1,000        -
Total           197,243       60,000       107,243      15,000     15,000
III.   Project Components
30.    The EDRP will comprise three main components: (a) demobilization, (b) reinsertion
(TSNs), and (c) social and economic reintegration.
(a)    Demobilization (Estimated Total Costs: US$9.3 million)
31.    The objective of the demobilization component is to reduce the number of military
personnel by approximately 200,000 over an 18-24 month period. This component of the project
will be carried out in three phases of 60-70,000 soldiers. The recently created Demobilization
Task Force (DTF) within the Ministry of Defense (MOD) has already started detailed planning.
The MOD and the National Commission will carry out a pilot demobilization of approximately
5,000 soldiers to test all procedures and processes.
32.    Demobilization Criteria. The definition of demobilization criteria is the critical first step
in the planning process. Phase I demobilization will cover special target groups (female, disabled,
over-aged and econornically essential soldiers) as well as soldiers of the general group (national
service, remobilized ex-soldiers, etc.). The inclusion of the latter group is essential to create and
strengthen the public and private sector capacities for reintegrating demobilized soldiers, as well
as for general reconstruction. The MOD will establish the criteria such that they are transparent
and clear and simplify the selection of soldiers for demobilization. Once the criteria have been
established, the DTF will identify the soldiers to be demobilized under the pilot phase and the
first phase of demobilization.
33.    Logistics Plan. Logistics will be undertaken in three steps. First, soldiers will return their
military equipment (weapon, ammunition, clothes, etc.) at their duty station. Second, soldiers will
be transported to discharge centers. Third, demobilized soldiers will be transported to their zoba
of settlement. The DTF will prepare a logistics plan to ensure the smooth processing of the
caseload during these three steps. Special provisions will be made for severely disabled soldiers
who may be demobilized directly from the medical facilities. The discharge process itself will be
as short as possible and will be limited to approximately one week.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex               9
34.   Information. Soldiers will be informed in advance of their pending demobilization to help
them make the necessary personal arrangements both at the duty station and in the community of
planned settlement. This information will include the approximate date and planned procedures of
discharge, the availability of an appeals mechanism, a basic overview of the EDRP, and an initial
preparation for the return to civilian life. Every effort will be made to avoid unrealistic
expectations regarding the project.
35.    Appeals Mechanism. Soldiers will be given an opportunity to appeal to a decision
regarding demobilization. Transparent criteria for demobilization are essential to this end,
allowing a soldier to assess whether or not s/he indeed meets the criteria for demobilization. An
independent appeals mechanism will be set up within the Ministry of Defense to this end.
Soldiers selected for demobilization as well as those not selected will have the right to appeal to
the decision of the MOD.
36.    Socioeconomic Data. While still at their duty stations, the DTF will collect
socioeconomic data on all soldiers slated for demobilization. This information will be linked to
the demobilization database and represent the baseline information for project purposes. A non-
transferable identification system will be required to ensure that only eligible demobilized
soldiers have access to benefits. A system of military and civilian ID cards is already well
established in the country. However, the requirements in terms of caseload and time are such that
a new, digital system will need to be employed to produce durable ID cards.
37.    Discharge Process. Given the magnitude of each phase, the discharge process poses a
particular implementation challenge. Discharge teams will be identified comprising both military
and civilian members in order to cover all aspects of the demobilization. The latter will be carried
out in specially prepared discharge centers. Existing facilities, whether military or civilian, will
serve as discharge centers. The discharge centers will be prepared to process a large caseload
within a short-time period. The discharge teams will assess the needs in terms of lodging, food,
health services, sanitation, etc. Separate facilities (lodging, sanitation, health services) will be
prepared for female soldiers. In addition, special facilities may be required for disabled veterans,
especially regarding accessibility. The "discharge chain" will comprise several steps, whose
sequence will be determined prior to the preparation of the discharge centers:
*      Arrival. Upon arrival at the discharge center, soldiers will be provided with basic goods
(soap, blanket, towel, etc.) for their short stay in the center.
*      Identification. The identity of each soldier will be verified using the soldier's military ID
card. The ID number will be compared with the computerized list of soldiers to be
demobilized.
*      Discharge Formalities. The exchange of a soldier's military ID card for his/her new
civilian project ID and discharge certificate symbolizes the termination of his/her military
service. As of this moment, an individual will turn into a "demobilized soldier" and will
be under the authority of the NCDRP.
*      Pre-discharge  Orientation. Pre-discharge  orientation  (counseling) will provide
demobilized soldiers with critical information about project benefits, implementation
arrangements at the central and zoba level, reintegration opportunities, health issues
(including HIV/AIDS, reproductive health, etc.), civic rights and duties (including
women's legal rights), etc. The orientation project will be organized in modules and will
be carried out by a mixed group of mnilitary/civilian staff. The DTF and the Secretariat
will identify counselors, who will undergo training. Special modules will be offered for



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex             10
female and disabled ex-soldiers targeting their special reintegration needs. Special
materials will be prepared for counseling and distribution (booklets, job guides, etc.).
Again, every effort will be made to avoid the creation of unrealistic expectations about
project benefits.
*      Medical Screening. A special medical team will screen demobilized soldiers to identify
serious diseases or impairments that may affect his/her ability to enjoy economnic and
social reintegration (cough, chronic diarrhea, symptoms of sexually transmitted diseases,
alcohol and drug consumption, symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, etc.).
Furthermore, voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) for HV/AIDS will be offered. To
this end, medical teams will be established and will comprise members from the
respective military and civilian authorities.
*      Transport to the Community of Settlement. The Secretariat will organize transport from
the discharge centers to the zoba level using public or private transport providers. For
continuation to the cormmunity of settlement, ex-soldiers will receive a transport
allowance as part of the TSN.
38.    Pilot demobilization. The MOD and the National Commission will carry out a pilot
demobilization of approximately 5,000 soldiers to test all procedures and processes. This pilot
will target general profile soldiers as well as special target groups. The lessons from the pilot
operation will be assessed and incorporated into program design before phase I demobilization
commences.
39.    Phase I demobilization. In order to manage the caseload of 60-70,000 soldiers and to
maximize the use of the discharge teams and centers, phase I demobilization will be undertaken
in batches over a period of 3-6 months. Each batch will comprise approximately 5,000 soldiers, to
be demobilized simultaneously from approximately 10 discharge centers (throughput of 500
soldiers per week per center).
(b)    Reinsertion (Estimated Total Costs: US$120 million)
40.    Transitional Safety Nets. Upon discharge, a demobilized soldier loses his/her source of
income and is normally in a critical financial situation until s/he can generate income through
(self)-employment. During this period (the reinsertion phase), a demobilized soldier is in need of
special assistance or a Transitional Safety Net allowance (TSN) to cover his/her personal or
family's basic material needs. TSN is the cash equivalent of a defined basket of basic goods and
services enabling the beneficiary family unit to re-establish a civilian household. The basket
consists of basic goods such as household items, clothing and cooking utensils and makes
provision for children's education. As part of the TSN, the World Food Program has agreed with
Government to provide up to 12 months of supplementary food support to vulnerable
demobilized soldiers.
41.    The TSN will consist of two components:
(i)    Basic transition support: The first component of the TSN will be a standard allowance to
which all demobilized soldiers are entitled. The basic transition support will, on average,
amount to US$600 per soldier. The $600 unit cost includes the in-kind contribution to the
reinsertion package by the World Food Program, which is valued at US$75. Therefore,
the cash contribution to the average reinsertion package that IDA and the Multi Donor
Trust Fund would finance would be US$525. The total estimated costs for reinsertion
amount to US$120 million (200,000 * US$600). The total cost for the in-kind



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex            11
contribution amounts to US$15 million and the total cost for the cash contribution
amounts to US$105 million. It was agreed with GOE that the basic transition support
would be differentiated into three or four broad categories based on rank and length of
service. Government prepared the criteria for this differentiation prior to Negotiations
with IDA. It was also agreed that the resource envelope for the basic transition support,
however, would not exceed US$120 million.
(ii)   Enhanced support to vulnerable groups: The second component of the TSN will be
made available to some demobilized soldiers based on relative vulnerabilities as indicated
by their health status. Health status covers demobilized soldiers with severe or moderate
disability and those with severe chronic illness. A medical commission of the MOD will
determine eligibility for enhanced support according to pre-determined and transparent
criteria. The total estimated additional cost of this support to vulnerable groups is $2
million. The additional support to vulnerable groups would be provided through the
social and economic reintegration component of the Program.
42.    Regarding the second component of the TSN, the following differentiation will be
applied:
*      Severely disabled will receive additional assistance (US$450, equivalent to an average of
9 months pay), totaling US$1,050 per soldier in this category; and
*      Moderately disabled and the chronically ill will receive additional assistance (US$300,
equivalent to an average of 6 months pay), thus totaling US$900 per soldier in this
category.
Demobilized soldiers who find (self)-employment immediately will remain eligible for specific
reintegration assistance (e.g. the provision of tools and seeds for farmers).
43.    TSN-payments. Payments will be effected in various installments. The basic transition
support will be paid in two installments, the first within one to three months of discharge, the
second four to six months after discharge. The enhanced support to vulnerable groups will be paid
in installments covering three months each. For instance severely and moderately disabled
demobilized soldiers will receive three additional installments, starting six months after receipt of
the basic transition support.
44.    TSN-payment procedures. Payments will be effected through the banking system with
demobilized soldiers being paid in their zobas of settlement. A managing bank will be selected on
the basis of cost and representation in the zobas. Installments will be paid by transferring funds
from the project account to the branches (via a central collection account at the managing bank)
for the credit of each individual bank account or payment over the counter to each soldier upon
personal and proper identification. As far as possible, ex-soldiers will be encouraged to open bank
accounts, which will also provide an incentive for them to remain in the zoba of initial settlement.
The use of bank accounts will have various indirect benefits, including banking education for
demobilized soldiers and their families, the contribution to rural capital fornation, and the
development of a decentralized banking system. Payment procedures will be clearly defined and
will be as simple as possible. Safeguard procedures will be applied to ensure transparency and
accuracy of the payment process. Complete and accurate payment lists will be prepared,
demobilized soldiers will be registered and be provided with a nontransferable photograph ID,
benefits will be tracked via the project's management information system (MIS), and regular
verification of payments will be undertaken through random samples by the zoba offices.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex             12
(c)   Social and Economic Reintegration (Estimated Total Costs: US$50 million)
45.    The social and economic reintegration of demobilized soldiers occurs over time. The
principal protagonist and the active initiator of the process is the individual demobilized soldier.
Support for economic and social reintegration may ease the process, but successful reintegration
is dependent upon a dynamic interaction of social, economic and political factors with the
returning demobilized soldiers. Family ties, community support, and economic circumstances and
opportunities play a critical role, and are taken into account in the design of the reintegration
support project. The design of the social and economic reintegration support projects is based on
the following principles:
(i)    Opportunities.  Reintegration projects are opportunities that the ex-soldiers choose to
access, unlike the reinsertion support (TSN), which is an entitlement. Some of these
opportunities may be designed in direct response to the needs and socio-economnic
characteristics of the ex-soldiers. Others may be services or projects provided by a range
of governmental entities, NGOs, banking institutions or private enterprises to the ex-
soldiers as members of the society at-large. In the case of disabled demobilized soldiers,
family members can substitute for demobilized soldiers, thereby protecting household
economic self-sufficiency.
(ii)  Inclusive Reintegration Supports. The EDRP is designed to be an integral part of the
broader post-war economic recovery process. Therefore, it is not only permissible but
also desirable that, internally displaced, returnees, deportees and other war-affected
persons be included in local level projects under the EDRP to promote community
cohesion and economic recovery. However, at least 50% of the program participants
should be demobilized soldiers. The EDRP, especially in the regions of Gash-Barka and
Debub, will coordinate closely with projects supporting the return and reintegration of
other target groups so that the assistance is compatible and mutually supportive. While
the EDRP reintegration assistance will be inclusive rather than exclusively provided to
ex-soldiers, some assistance may be specifically targeted at the demobilized soldiers. The
needs of female demobilized soldiers and the spouses of returning male soldiers are likely
to require particular attention.
(iii)  Capacity Builiding.  The lack of human resource and institutional capacity is a major
obstacle in all sectors to the expanded delivery of services and projects supporting the
reintegration of the demobilized soldiers. Therefore, each component initially needs to
implement targeted capacity building measures. These measures do not substitute for
longer-term human resource development and capacity building projects being
undertaken by the Eritrean Government with the support of various donors. Rather, they
are designed to unblock specific implementation bottlenecks in the proposed projects,
while complementing long-term ongoing projects.
46.   Implementation through NCDRP (US$35 million). Activities under the social and
economic reintegration component will initially be coordinated and financed through the
NCDRP. These activities will largely be implemented and/or technically supervised by line
ministries (e.g. Agriculture, Education, Fisheries, Labor, Local Government, Public Works, etc.)
in accordance with standards and guidelines applied for Bank assistance. Where feasible, the
NCDRP will finance the participation of demobilized soldiers and other war-affected populations
in existing programs. Where assistance to reintegration sub-projects cannot be channeled through
existing programs, the NCDRP will coordinate closely with line Ministries to ensure that the
implementation of these activities will fall within Government's medium and longer-term sector
strategies and policies.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex            13
47.   Implementation through GOE Sector Programs (US$15 million). Reintegration activities
are increasingly expected to be financed directly through targeted components in existing or
forthcoming GOE sector programs, such as the Education Sector Program (skills development
and training), Community Development Program (micro-credit), the Emergency Reconstruction
Program ('cash for work', rehabilitation of social/economic infrastructure), the Roads Sector
Program (public works), the Agriculture Sector Program (rural development activities) and
HAMSET (EIV-AIDS counseling). These sector operations will be scaled up to absorb the
demobilized soldiers and other war-affected populations. It was agreed that the absorption of
these target populations would have to be formalized in the project and legal documentation.
GOE and IDA agreed to channel US$5 million and US$2 million of the proposed EDRP
reintegration funds through the respective Community Development Program (CDP) structures:
i.e. the Micro Credit and Savings Scheme and the Micro Business Advisory Services scheme.
Since some of these sector operations will only become operational in FY03 and FY04, the
NCDRP will retain a level of financial and human resources sufficient to address the social and
economic reintegration needs of the initial batches of soldiers to be demobilized.
48.    Special Target Groups. The EDRP is placing special focus on three sub-groupings of
demobilized soldiers: female soldiers; those who have been disabled as a result of the war; and
HIV positive soldiers. A premise is that all three groups, and especially female ex-soldiers, have
strengths and experiences that will help facilitate their reintegration into mainstream social and
economic life. They will be encouraged and supported to pursue existing opportunities and
programs, and will be covered by the counseling activities under the program. The EDRP also
recognizes, however, the need for special support for the especially vulnerable through the extra
reinsertion payment, as well as enhanced reintegration assistance. This will include access for all
three vulnerable groups to: (i) specialized counseling strengthened by EDRP; (ii) assistance to
establish peer-support groups; (iii) strengthening of programs and facilities for medical treatment
and rehabilitation; and (iv) support from special programs in response to women's needs.
49.    Disabled soldiers. As the reintegration phase is opportunity rather than entitlement
driven, disabled ex-soldiers will be encouraged and supported to access existing programs. They
will have the opportunity to receive specialized counseling supported by EDRP, to help their
rehabilitation and reintegration.
50.    Specialist medical services and the first medical examination will be carried out before
discharge. The pre-discharge medical examination will focus on the type and degree of disability,
earlier treatment and needs for further treatment, rehabilitation and care. A special needs
assessment is required to determine capacity for further education, skills training and
employment. Disabled demobilized soldiers will be entitled to the same reinsertion package as all
other demobilized soldiers. In addition, some disabled will need additional entitlements,
according to their degree of disability based on needs assessment and earlier screening.
51.    Disabled soldiers will be assisted to access mainstream economic reintegration activities
such as business advice and training, credit schemes, employment and wage subsidy schemes,
agricultural support, and access to land. Some groups of disabled will need specific training to be
able to pursue certain employment opportunities. While community-based rehabilitation could
become an important support for the integration of disabled soldiers, the capacity of the existing
Community-Based Rehabilitation (CBR) Program will need substantive strengthening to be able
to meet the new challenge.
52.    Soldiers and HIV/AIDS. Based on the assumption that military personnel is a high-risk
group for HIV/AIDS, EDRP will be cooperating closely with the HAMSET project to implement



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex             14
interventions to address HIV/AIDS issues among demobilized soldiers. An initial beneficiary
evaluation conducted by the government and the Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS
(UNAIDS) shows that there is considerable awareness among military personnel about
HIV/AIDS and especially the impact it has on communities. While still in the army, all soldiers
have free access to condoms. However, misinformation and misunderstanding still exist regarding
modes of transmission and prevention strategies. Denial and stigma are still very high, and affect
the degree of openness about the problem.
53.    NCDRP, in collaboration with MOD and MOH, has established an overall specialist team
to plan activities related to HIV/AlDS during demobilization, and sub-teams to carry out the
necessary preparations of the activities. The HIV/AIDS team will cooperate with UNAIDS in the
preparations, which includes a training-of-trainers (TOT) exercise. The following activities will
be undertaken:
(i)    all demobilized soldiers will be given extensive HIV/AIDS sensitization as part of the
pre-discharge orientation, and provided information materials;
(ii)   based on the sensitization sessions, all demobilized soldiers will be offered VCT
following a brief pre-test counseling session;
(iii)  all demobilized soldiers who test HIV+ will be given confirmatory tests and post-test
counseling.
54.    Medium-term health follow-up and support of the HIV+ demobilized soldiers and their
families will be organized within the framework of HAMSET. This will start in zobas where local
NGO capacity is available. In other zobas, solutions will be explored through the creation of local
capacity or by inviting national NGOs to develop activities. Apart from medical treatment,
follow-up activities will include assistance to community-based support groups.
55.    Female soldiers. Targeting of women soldiers and male soldiers' widows and spouses
will take into account the diverse vulnerabilities and capacities of women. These varying needs
require a flexible and diverse set of program responses. These include measures to ensure equity
and equal access of women to opportunities in order to maximize their economic capacities.
Certain program components will primarily enhance women's social, economic and political
empowerment.
56.    With these considerations in mind, the EDRP takes a threefold approach to gender:
*      Full integration of women in all program components. This means that provisions will be
designed and implemented so that female demobilized soldiers can have full access and
participation in all opportunities supported by the EDRP.
*      Given the history of (partial) exclusion of Eritrean women from many economic and
social aspects of life, program components will contain accompanying measures
(advocacy, sensitization) to encourage female participation and acceptance in the work
force. These could include interventions regarding numerical targeting, special
advertising campaigns, the promotion of role models and women's success stories, and
the offering of preparatory courses enabling women to acquire the skills and confidence
to enter regular training programs.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex            15
In addition, special programs will be developed that respond to women's needs that arise
from  intra-household and wider community gender relations, women's roles and
responsibilities in child rearing and livelihood strategies.
57.    The implications of this gender approach for the implementation of the EDRP are that
every implementing body has the responsibility to be gender aware, and develop and implement
accompanying measures. Within the EDRP, gender specialists will be responsible for: (i)
developing and implementing special women's programs, and (ii) training and assisting all EDRP
program and implementing bodies to be gender aware and responsive.
Social Reintegration
58.    Social reintegration deals with the issue of reintegrating groups with different
backgrounds, experiences, norms, expectations and capacities. The objectives of this component
are to facilitate the smooth reintegration of demobilized soldiers into their communities, and
contribute to continued social cohesion in the communities and in the society at large. A lesson
from Eritrea's previous EDRP experience is that social reintegration is a special challenge, the
importance of which is often underestimated. In the initial phase of the program the NCDRP will
assume an active role in strengthening the capacities of its partners to ensure that they will be able
to implement, coordinate and monitor program activities. Overall, an estimated US$6 million will
be dedicated to this aspect of reintegration.
59.   Information and Sensitization. To avoid unrealistic expectations and rumors about the
government's plans for demobilization and reintegration, the EDRP Commission is developing a
plan to keep the society-at-large informed through the media about the program at different stages
of implementation. In addition, local authorities and communities will be sensitized to the needs
of demobilized soldiers and their famnilies, and the opportunities and challenges of reintegration,
prior to and during demobilization. While general awareness on the EDRP process and its
challenges will be disseminated through mass media, further sensitization will be provided
through a series of workshops to the implementing partners: the key government ministries and
staff on central, zoba and sub-zoba levels; partner NGOs, e.g. National Union of Eritrean Women
(NUEW) and National Union of Eritrean Youth and Students (NUEYS); and the communities.
60.    First-line counseling.  This represents the first opportunity for ex-'.oldiers to get
counseling and support outside their circle of family and friends. The first-line counseling will be
provided in each sub-zoba by volunteers from the NUEW, the NUEYS, the Eritrean War
Disabled Fighters' Association (EWDFA) and the Ministry of Health, who have received courses
in counseling and community development work. The counselors will be coordinated and
supervised by the Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare's (MLHW) social counseling staff. The
MLHW will organize arrival counseling shortly after the demobilized soldiers have arrived in
their respective sub zoba/zoba. In addition to social reintegration of ex-soldiers, the counselors
will also assist reintegration of other war-affected groups, especially the internally displaced. The
minimum first-line counseling will include:
*      Basic counseling and advice: listen to ex-soldiers experiences and provide reintegration
advice; meet with community leaders/members regarding reintegration problems and
opportunities;
*      Information and referral: provide information and advice on availability and access to
specialized counseling and services; recognize needs for specialized counseling,
including signals of serious psychosocial problems;



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex             16
*      Assist peer group and community activities: advise on group formation and peer and
community group activities in support of reintegration; help mediate in local conflicts,
e.g. on land issues.
61.    Outreach and community support.  Reintegration of demobilized soldiers and their
families will be further facilitated by follow-up counseling of demobilized soldiers in their
communities. To enhance community reintegration, this activity will include advice to and
support of peer groups and associations of demobilized soldiers, as well as community
organizations and international NGOs. The EDRP will have a budget for strengthening and
expansion of existing outreach and community support programs, and will be able to fund new
activities that can strengthen community social capital, e.g. adult education, sports and cultural
activities, through community outreach activities.
62.    Training offirst-line counselors. The MLHW has established counseling units in the six
zobas, and developed a training program for semi-skilled psychosocial counselors. MLHW has
already trained 24 women from within the National Service in this program, and will train
additional counselors through a training of trainers system. EDRP will contribute to strengthen
the country's counseling capacity by assisting MLHW to expand the intake at the training
program during 2002 and 2003. The country's first line counseling capacity will be further
strengthened by training of volunteers and staff of the NUEW and the NUEYS. It is anticipated
that such training will provide an average of 10 first line counselors per sub-zoba within a period
of two years, which will give the country about 560 first line counseling volunteers to help in the
reintegration of demobilized soldiers, internally displaced families and other war affected.
63.    Strengthening of second-line counseling. The first-line counselors will address many of
the problems encountered when ex-soldiers readjust to civilian life and pursue options to make a
living. However, there will also be a need for more specialized counseling in areas such as
psychosocial and family counseling; living with HIV/AIDS; the needs of the war-disabled and the
specific needs of women ex-soldiers and female family members of ex-soldiers. EDRP will
provide technical and financial resources to strengthen functional systems within the relevant
governmental and non-governmental service providers at zoba and sub-zoba levels as appropriate.
In preparation for this assistance, the NCDRP Commission will engage technical assistance to
assess the capacity and functionality of second-line psychosocial counseling services, and
develop proposals/plans for strengthening them.
Economic Reintegration
64.    The activities are designed to develop the financial self-sufficiency of a demobilized
soldier's household through productive (self-) employment. The Eritrea DRP will provide
economic reintegration assistance and access to employment through: (i) referral services on
employment, micro-projects, apprenticeship, training and education opportunities using the
system described under social reintegration; (ii) the provision of skills development and training
opportunities; (iii) access to micro-enterprise support schemes; (iv) support of small-scale rural
development activities; and (v) employment promotion and training in the construction trades.
Overall, an estimated US$44 million of total program will be invested in economic reintegration
activities.
65.    Demobilized soldiers will access the services in their region of return. The planning of
economic reintegration programs is guided by the socioeconomic profile, based on a key set of
variables, that is compiled for each demobilized soldier, and by a labor market information
system (LMIS). The LMIS is expected to identify the opportunities for economic reintegration



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex            17
into productive employment and self-employment in both rural and urban areas. The LMIS will
combine labor market trend analysis (enterprise surveys and tracer studies) with economic sector
analysis.
(a)    Skills Development and Training
66.    The Eritrean economy is seriously constrained by the lack of skilled manpower. Many
demobilized soldiers are likely to encounter significant difficulty entering the shattered economy
that has little absorptive capacity, particularly in the medium and large-scale formal sector. The
reconstruction of the country and the regeneration (and growth) of the economy will require a
training system that complements development imperatives, is market responsive and stimulates
increased production and enterprise, particularly in the micro and small sector. An estimated
US$15 million will be spent on skills development and training.
67.    The public and private technical education and vocational training (TEVT) system
currently operates below the quantitative and qualitative capacity required to provide the
demobilized soldiers with appropriate skills for formal and informal employment. The TEVT
system suffers from a lack of qualified instructors, insufficient and inappropriate equipment,
shortages of training consumables and technical textbooks, outdated curriculum, and the absence
of a national system of skills assessment and certification. Training and skills development, are
nonetheless, crucial to the process of facilitating the economic reintegration of demobilized
soldiers. The public and private training system will thus need to increase its capacity whilst
being responsive to the market. This sub-component of the EDRP anticipates activities over the
next four to five years in the following areas:
*  Increase entry to basic technical education and training by providing literacy and numeracy
upgrading for 70,000 soldiers before demobilization;
*  Increase institutional TVET provision at basic level over the five year period, to
accommodate an additional 10,000 trainees by regenerating the country's public Skills
Development Centers and assist existing, emerging and new private training providers;
*  Refocus basic training programs on the real skills needs for development, self-employment,
micro and small enterprise (MSE) development in urban and rural sectors;
*  Increase TEVT provision for 600 persons at intermediate and 400 persons at advanced levels
to accommodate the increase of graduates from the basic level; and
*  Develop alternative methods of delivery (such as distance education) and provide
mechanisms to improve and formalize on-the-job training (including apprenticeships) of
9,000 persons within the formal and infornal private sector, construction works, agricultural
and community projects.
68.    To take on the additional training demand resulting from the demobilization process,
public and private training providers will have to be supported in developing additional delivery
capacity. This will include: (i) refurbishing facilities and the purchasing of tools, equipment,
consumables and textbooks; (ii) developing the capacity to design training programs and projects
that match the skill needs of the economy; (iii) provide a national program to train trainers and
develop the capacity of training managers; and (iv) develop systems for labor market
responsiveness. Initially, public and private training providers can apply for financial support
through the NCDRP, however, once the Government's Education Sector Program becomes
effective, the training providers will need to apply for financial and technical support through the



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex             18
Ministry of Education. The capacity building initiatives will, therefore, largely be channeled
through the upcoming Education Sector Program.
69.    NCDRP will further provide support for: (i) training fees and (and where applicable)
accommodation fees to individual demobilized soldiers; (ii) funding to groups, community
initiatives requiring specific training for projects that are targeted at defined employment and
economic opportunities; and (iii) incentives for on-the-job private sector training providers. Set
criteria will be applied to ensure that the increased provision and capacity will promote the
economic reintegration of demobilized soldiers, generate economic activity, support development
imperatives, and be sustainable in the long term. When designing, approving, and organizing the
implementation of its activities, the EDRP national and regional training specialists will work in
partnership with all relevant stakeholders.
(b) Micro Finance and Micro Business Development Services
70.    The EDRP will support the provision of credit and business development services to
demobilized soldiers and other low-income households through the Savings and Micro Credit
Program (SMCP). The SMCP is the continuation of the successful Eritrea Community
Development Fund's (ECDF) savings and credit scheme. The objectives of the Program are to:
(i) support the development of an appropriate policy, legal and regulatory environment for micro
finance; (ii) develop and institutionalize sustainable savings and micro-credit services for
demobilized soldiers, and (iii) establish micro and small Business Development Services (BDS)
that would support borrowers. The GOE and IDA have agreed to channel US$7 million of the
proposed EDRP reintegration funds through the SMCP structures. Demobilized soldiers would
have equal access to these services along with other members of Eritrean society.
71.    Micro finance.  The proposed program will seek to consolidate and improve upon the
previous ECDF micro finance activities that provide (i) smaller (1,000-10,000 nakfa) group
guaranteed loans to members of self-selected solidarity groups, and (ii) larger (10,000-100,000
nakfa) loans to individual borrowers or associations. An estimated US$5 million will be
channeled to micro enterprises, with an emphasis on lower income populations,. While the
existing program has performed well, the SMCP has not yet reached full financial sustainability.
Therefore, the extension of the SMCP will seek to improve performance by ensuring adequate
business planning, reviewing and revising loan products, improved financial management,
upgrading performance monitoring and the management information systems, increased staff
training and reviewing remuneration policies, and assessing funding strategies. These activities
would be undertaken within a context of an institutional transformation process to make the
SMCP an independent micro finance institution. The process of developing a strategic business
plan and reviewing program management systems will draw upon the CGAP Micro Finance
Business Planning Handbook and appraisal tools.
72.    Micro Business Development Services.  Despite the critical nature of business
development services (BDS) in the overall health and sustainability of micro enterprises, the
provision of BDS in Eritrea is extremely limited. Furthermore, the few dedicated support
services that have been provided to micro enterprises are done on a supply basis, and have been
heavily, or completely, subsidized. Based on best international practices and the lessons learned
in Eritrea to date, the BDS component will emphasize a demand driven and market approach that
would rely on basic services that are available or that can be developed in the private sector. This
component would support: (i) training of program staff and Advisory Committee members in
BDS best practices and micro-business assessment techniques, (ii) analysis of demand and supply
of business services, (iii) implementation of pilot support service activities, (iv) development of



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex            19
operating and training manuals, and (v) establishment of independent monitoring capacity to
assess performance and impact of BDS. Among several suggested strategies for implementing
BDS that might be considered, are a voucher scheme and grassroots management training. An
estimated $2 million will be invested in this component of the program.
73.   Implementation Arrangements. Based on the progress and level of achievement of the
savings and credit scheme of the ECDF, Government took the initiative to establish the SMCP as
an autonomous unit within the Ministry of Local Government. The SMCP, established by
Government Directive in March 2001, is governed by a National Steering Committee, comprising
five members: a chairperson representing the Ministry of Finance, a secretary representing the
Ministry of Local Government and members representing the national Bank of Eritrea, Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA) and Ministry of Trade and Industry. The Government Directive further
describes the objectives of the program, SMCP organizational structure, roles and responsibilities
of the management Unit, the program manager, the Finance and Administration officer, and the
zoba and sub-zoba branches. The SMCP will work closely with local government structures in
the delivery of credit and services. A small BDS unit will be established within the offices of the
SMCP, will maintain separate accounts from the micro finance activities, and will have a separate
Advisor Group. A more detailed analysis of the micro finance sector and a discussion of the
objectives and activities under the SMCP are presented in Attachment V.
(c)    Rural Development
74.    The objective of the rural development component is to: (i) encourage and create job
opportunities facilitating agricultural production; (ii) encourage and develop the private sector in
rural areas, including the rural trade sector; (iii) support smallholder livestock initiatives; (iv)
improve opportunities in the fishery sector; and (v) design and execute upfront training to match
current needs in agricultural production and rural development. An estimated US$17 million will
be dedicated to this sub-component. Possible activities to be undertaken would include:
*  NCDRP will support 'cash-for-work' activities to meet the immediate needs of the landless
demobilized soldiers. These job creation initiatives could take the form of fixed-term
contracts of a period of 6-12 months. Works to be initiated through this initiative include
rural infrastructure construction, building materials, repair works on dams and construction
and rehabilitation of hand-dug wells. Rehabilitation of economic infrastructure will be
coordinated with ongoing programs of the Ministry of Public Works (MOPW) and ERREC.
*  NCDRP will build on the government's efforts to privatize the rural economy. The program
will support the establishment of a rural trading sector through the provision of training for
potential private traders and availability of rural credit. The Ministry of Agriculture is in the
process of delegating functions such as the distribution of seeds, tools, fertilizer and water
pumps directly to the private sector through an Agricultural Privatization Program.
Demobilized soldiers will have access to these types of opportunities through the program.
*  NCDRP intends to help restoring productive capacities in the small-scale livestock sector
through the restocking of small animals and through feed production. For this sub-
component, the NCDRP will link up with the Animal Resources component of the ERP. In
areas of return the program will support demobilized soldiers in accessing sub-projects
restocking poultry, bee-keeping, and improving feed supply. The Ministries of Agriculture
and Fisheries have initiated the use of dry fish plants at the Red Sea coast for animal feed
production.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex              20
*  In collaboration with the Ministry of Fisheries, the NCDRP will explore opportunities for
demobilized soldiers in the fishery sector. Seawater farming and artisanal fishing hold a
potential to supply the human diet and feeding domestic animals. Approximately 14 potential
sites for seawater farming have been identified around the coastline of Eritrea. The fishery
sector is at the moment under-utilized. In the year 2000 only 13,000 tons of fish were
harvested out of a maximum sustainable yield estimate of 50,000 tons.
*  Because of very limited capacity within rural Eritrea, EDRP will collaborate with the
Ministries of Agriculture and Fisheries to build training capacity through technical assistance
from international training specialists, NGOs working in Eritrea, and regional institutions. To
gradually strengthen capacity, the rural development component will be phased, starting with
cash-for-work activities and training inputs.
(d) Employment Promotion in the Construction Sector and Public Works
75.    With extensive assistance of the international donor community, the government has
initiated a comprehensive emergency rehabilitation and reconstruction programs. Since large-
scale ongoing rehabilitation activities are saturating the construction environment, NCDRP
support to this activity, at this stage, does not include any significant investment. The
employment promotion component will take advantage of ongoing and future construction
activities with three objectives in mind: (i) increase employment opportunities for demobilized
soldiers through identification of job opportunities and promotion in the construction sector; (ii)
improve construction skills and management capacities of demobilized soldiers and contractors
who employ demobilized soldiers; (iii) increase capacity in training and business development
infrastructure, and test preferential arrangements in hiring and procurement that would benefit
demobilized soldiers. The construction and public works activities, estimated to be worth US$5
million, will be coordinated with the Ministry of Public Works and ERREC.
76.    This component will promote the integration of demobilized soldiers who are new entries
in this market, as well as facilitate the re-entry of previously employed construction workers. In
addition, it will support skilled construction workers to develop small or micro-businesses, and
provide training opportunities for demobilized soldiers through apprenticeships. Particular
attention will be given to the large number of women who are currently employed by contractors
due to the massive mobilization of men for military service. These women will be included in
EDRP programs for upgrading or skills development to maintain their positions. This sub-
component will include interventions in the following areas:
*  Support employment referral centers to survey employment opportunities with private
contractors, and other related public works businesses;
*  Provide incentives to contractors for the employment of demobilized soldiers, targeting new
entries in the construction sector;
*  Support of training and capacity building, including business incubator and advisory service
provision, with specific eligibility criteria to meet the objectives;
*  Small scale investments in the rehabilitation, reconstruction and/or new construction of
training facilities;
*  Test preferential arrangements in the investments in training infrastructure works projects.
77.    Private contractors will in general implement the public works. GOE uses competitive
procurement procedures to hire contractors. The NCDRP will sub-contract the Ministries of



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex            21
Public Works, Labor and Human Welfare, Education, and the Employers Federation, the
Chamber of Commerce and other relevant entities to (i) survey potential job opportunities in the
construction sector and provide updated information to the referral services; (ii) develop the
training and capacity building programs; and (iii) develop the incentive schemes as well as the
hiring and procurement exercises for small training facilities.
D.     INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I.     Institutional Arrangements
78.    The NCDRP has developed an Operational Manual (OM), which has legal authority by
virtue of the Proclamation #113/2001 establishing the NCDRP and as a covenant to the
Development Credit Agreement.
79.    This OM  describes NCDRP' s institutional set-up (see Attachment I) and reflects
procedures on decision-making in terms of sub-project identification, appraisal, approval,
implementation and progress monitoring, including procurement, financial and administrative
management procedures acceptable to the World Bank. Project management is being given larger
decision-making authority within specifically described procedures and eligibility criteria. In the
case of the Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Program, the objectives of this approach are
to achieve a wider variety of service delivery which corresponds better to local conditions and
which responds more to the local needs of the demobilized soldiers and their families and
communities.
80.    Demobilization will be carried out directly by the Secretariat in close coordination with
the DTF of the MOD. The payment of reinsertion benefits will be done through the banking
system. All reintegration support activities will be contracted out to implementing partners.
Project proposals will be generated by potential implementing partners, in close collaboration
with beneficiary groups and communities on the basis of needs in a given sector and geographic
area. Proposals submnitted to the NCDRP can be developed in one of two ways: (i) NCDRP issues
a formal Request for Proposals (RFP) for specific support services (the more supply-driven
approach); or (ii) through a social fund-type mechanism where eligible implementing agencies
identify an area of need in collaboration with target beneficiaries and present an unsolicited
proposal in form and substance suitable to NCDRP (the more demand-driven approach). The
approaches have been designed to encourage local initiative, to expand the participation of
potential service providers, to achieve outreach, to improve local institutional capacity, and to
enhance transparency and accountability. As local level capacity is weak in Eritrea, the NCDRP
will include institutional strengthening in most, if not all, of the subprojects resulting from this
mechanism.
81.    Performance monitoring is being measured against indicators such as efficiency,
effectiveness, cost, timely delivery - as well as beneficiary satisfaction. Transparency is being
achieved through process reporting and monitoring, including financial, management and
technical auditing. Accountability (financial, performance and impact) is being improved through
a "project-management" mechanism.
82.   In terms of the NCDRP's institutional set-up, the OM elaborates on the outlines provided
by the Proclamation and describes in practical detail the roles between the National
Commission's policy, strategy and performance monitoring function and the Secretariat's daily



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex              22
management role. The OM has been approved by the Nationa] Commission, which has thereby
committed itself to abide by its procedures.
83.   In terms of the NCDRP's activities, the OM covers the demobilization, reinsertion and
reintegration activities, and provides procedures on how to manage them;
*  Prior to demobilization, the NCDRP will receive data on the soldiers from the DTF in the
MOD. The NCDRP will also conduct the updating of the baseline data on the soldiers prior to
their discharge.
*  An identifiable demarcation line has been established whereby the soldiers become
demobilized soldiers and rejoin civilian life. This happens in the military discharge centers
where they return all their military apparel, including weapons, outfits, identification, etc. and
receive their civilian identification card. They are then moved to the civilian demobilization
centers, where the NCDRP provides them with various counseling services, as well as with
their first tranche of their reinsertion payment. All activities being managed by NCDRP
during the demobilization phase will be under the zoba offices direct control, and will be sub-
contracted to external service providers where and when required. These services could be
rendered by governmental, non-governmental or - although less likely in this phase - by
private sector organizations.
*  The reinsertion benefits will be made payable in accordance with the specific requests
expressed by the demobilized soldiers. The preferred system will be through bank transfers
onto the demobilized soldiers bank accounts. This would avoid requiring the Secretariat to set
up an elaborate system of check-writing and distribution, considering the enormous amount
of transactions.
*  Reintegration support will be provided to the demobilized soldiers and community members,
as they are considered to be delivered on an "inclusive" basis to achieve integration between
the demobilized soldiers and their communities. The ratio of accessibility to the services has
been set at approximately 1 to I between demobilized soldiers and the conmmunity members.
84.    The conflict and related mobilization, have further weakened institutional capacity. In
response, EDRP procedures require that special efforts are made to attract valuable initiatives at
the local level. Special outreach mechanisms are also being explored, to make services available
to more remote areas at reasonable cost and efficiency. In that context, NCDRP will put heavy
emphasis on providing institutional capacity building in many sub-projects. This can be on an ad
hoc basis, or be organized in a more centralized manner. A major objective of this component is
to sustain institutionalized services even after the withdrawal of NCDRP support.
85.    Zoba offices will be in charge of processing a sub-project cycle, as is usual in social fund
type projects. They will have authority to make all decisions, initially up to a threshold of
US$30,000 per sub-project. A sub-project approval committee will be set up for that purpose, in
close collaboration with local authorities. Sub-projects exceeding the threshold will be presented
to the Secretariat's national coordination office, where a similar, national, sub-project approval
committee will be created. This national commission can approve sub-projects up to a threshold
of US$200,000. Above this threshold sub-projects will require no-objection from the National
Comrmission and the World Bank.
86.    The Secretariat's national coordination office will be in charge of supervising the
performnance of the zoba offices, and accordingly will require the most specialized staff. It may
rely on the expertise of "institution capacity building" units established by the NCDRP, as well as



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex            23
upon national and international technical assistance as and when required. The national
coordination office will provide guidelines on sub-projects to the zoba offices, which will become
"sub-project" profiles from which the zoba offices can develop the particular sub-projects in the
field. The national coordination office will provide more extensive technical assistance for sub-
projects above the zoba.
87.    All sub-projects, whether implemented by governmental, non-governmental or private
sector organizations will sign implementation arrangements under the form of contracts or
equivalent. These contracts will comprise performance indicators and evaluation mechanisms. All
contracts will include enforceable performance clauses, whether the sub-project activities are
financed by the TDA credit, the multi-donor trust fund, in co-financing arrangements or in parallel
funding arrangements.
88.    The Secretariat will be staffed with the best available Eritrean professionals. They will be
hired on a competitive basis, with TOR acceptable to IDA. Their performance will be monitored
and they will receive performance incentives after a period during which a staff performance
evaluation system will be put in place. Non-performing staff can be removed according to
established procedures. A large part of the Secretariat's activities will be sub-contracted to
consultants who will also be recruited on competitive basis and sign contracts including
performance-based clauses.
89.    All activities managed and/or monitored by the NCDRP Secretariat will be monitored in
a computerized MIS which will be purpose designed. For the MIS to be fully operational, it will
take up to 18 months, but the MIS starts functioning within the first quarter of operations of the
EDRP. Specialist local and international advice has been called in.
90.    The Secretariat's offices, both at the national coordination and the zoba levels, include
monitoring and evaluation specialists who will be in charge of organizing the monitoring and
evaluation of all activities. The M&E will make extensive use of the MIS for the analysis of
M&E data. The methodologies will capture both quantitative and qualitative information and will
include beneficiary satisfaction surveys as well as self-evaluation methodologies used by the
implementing partners. The M&E unit will continuously draw lessons, using them to improve the
EDRP's operations and providing them to the National Commission for the annual policy and
strategy exercise. The lessons learned will be published and also transferred into the NCDRP's
institution building component. In addition, the M&E unit is in charge of managing the internal
institutional capacity building of the NCDRP, which comprises the dissemination of the
operational procedures, including technical guidelines about sub-project profiles. The M&E unit
will collaborate closely with the MIS unit for the training of all staff and implementing partners
(where required) in the optimal usage of the MIS.
II.    Financial Management, Auditing and Reporting
91.    Overall Program Accounting, Auditing and Reporting. The Finance and Administration
Manager of the NCDRP Secretariat will maintain records and accounts to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, and expenditures of the program. The
Finance and Administration Unit will set up and maintain a program-specific accounting and
financial management system adequate to provide complete, accurate and timely information
regarding program resources and expenditures. Agreement will be obtained from all the
cooperating partners to harmonize the financial reporting for the program; in this regard, a
quarterly progress report will be distributed to all the cooperating partners as part of program
monitoring.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex            24
92.    Financing Mechanisms and Flow of Funds. The timely availability and flow of funding,
will be critical to enable the Government to implement the Program in a planned timeframe. In
the absence of a quick disbursement mechanism, implementation of the Program would likely be
slow. The Program will therefore use a quick disbursement mechanism, consisting of
disbursements in foreign exchange for purchases based on a positive list of imports. The local
currency proceeds from the sale of this foreign exchange will thereafter be deposited into a
Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account to be utilized for the Program. The funds
disbursed under this mechanism will amount to US$30 million equivalent. Financial management
as well as disbursement of funds for the micro finance and micro business development services
will be under the responsibility of the Savings and Micro Credit Program (SMCP).
93.    At Effectiveness, the first payment made against the positive list of imports will be to
reimburse the GOE for the expenditures incurred for the program prior to Effectiveness
(retroactive financing). The second and third payment against the positive list of imports will be
based on a detailed project implementation plan (PIP) and actual progress in project
implementation (as measured through key indicators). The second and third payment against the
positive list of imports will be made when the Borrower furnishes to IDA evidence in form and
substance satisfactory to IDA: (i) consisting of a list of demobilized soldiers identifying the
amount of funds payable to the Demobilized Soldiers under the Demobilization and Reintegration
Program; and (ii) showing that a random sample of at least 2% of the number of demobilized
soldiers on the list furnished to IDA have (A) in accordance with the said list received the
amounts payable to them, and (B) acquired the goods and services intended for them under the
Program. After suitable verification of the disbursement and appropriate use of funds is received,
additional funds will become available to the Government. The other financing mechanisms are:
(i) a standard IDA Special Account to finance civil works and the procurement of goods and
services; (ii) a Special Account for the Savings and Micro-Credit Program; (iii) a Multi-Donor
Trust Fund to be administered by the Bank; and (iv) an account in local currency for counterpart
funding by the government.
94.    Safeguards would be built into the process in order to ensure that funds are utilized for
the purposes intended: (i) demobilized soldiers would be registered and provided with photograph
identifications; (ii) benefits would be tracked via a Management Information System (MIS); (iii)
regular checks through random samples; and (iv) annual audits of the Special Accounts,
Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account, the Multi-Donor Trust Fund, and government
contribution would ensure appropriate use of resources.
95.    Special Accounts. The Program will have three Special Accounts, of which two will be
managed by the Secretariat. One will be used for depositing proceeds from the IDA Credit while
the other will be used for depositing proceeds from a multi-donor Trust Fund to be managed by
the Bank. Both Special Accounts will be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational
guidelines. In addition, a separate Special Account will be established for depositing proceeds
from the IDA Credit for the SMCP component. SMCP, as a partially autonomous institution will
continue to apply the financial management procedures and systems currently used under ECDF
financing. An appraisal of the SMCP financial management arrangements confirmed that they
are satisfactory to IDA.
96.   Auditing. The records, accounts and financial statements of the Program, including the
Special Accounts; the Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account; the Multi-Donor Trust
Fund; and the government contribution will be audited annually in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied. Audits will be conducted by independent auditors with
relevant experience and competence acceptable to the Bank. Agreement will be obtained to



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex            25
prepare a consolidated annual report to satisfy the requirements of all the cooperating partners. In
addition to the audit reports, the auditors will also prepare a Management Letter giving comments
and observations, and make recommendations for improvements on accounting records, systems,
controls, and compliance with financial covenants. The annual audit reports along with
management letters will be sent to the Bank and all other cooperating partners not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. Joint Government/Bank supervision missions will make
spot checks to verify the use of funds disbursed.
97.    Retroactive Financing. The Credit will include Retroactive Financing according to the
Bank's guidelines for Emergency Recovery Credits. Retroactive Financing refers to the Credit
amount that the Bank agrees to reimburse to the Borrower for expenditures incurred during a
certain period prior to the date of Credit Effectiveness. The Government will be eligible for
reimbursement for expenses which it has incurred since December 5, 2000
III.   Procurement
99.    Organizational Setup. The commission's Finance and Administration Management
coordinates the activities. A procurement Manager, will oversee all procurement-related issues
under the EDRP. The Procurement Manager will also be responsible for carrying out and/or
establishing Procurement training. In the case of the large Zoba offices, depending on the
situation, a Procurement Officer may be hired to manage the procurement of goods and services
at local level.
100.  Procurement Planning and Implementation. The Procurement Manager will be
responsible for developing the annual procurement plans for the project. The presentation of: (i) a
detailed plan of priority activities for the first six months of the project; and (ii) a general first
year plan will be a condition of effectiveness. The NCDRP will coordinate closely with and draw
upon the extensive procurement experience and previously prepared documentation of the
Eritrean Community Development Fund (ECDF), ERP and HAMSET Projects. In addition, the
Government, with the Bank's assistance, has prepared a Manual of Procurement Procedures for
the NCDRP that will serve as the basis for project implementation. Standard Bank guidelines and
bid documents will be applied. Given the emergency nature of the project, the Bank has assisted
the Clients to select suitable, streamlined procurement methods that should allow for a rapid and
efficient demobilization.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex              26
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
* Other procurement methods without a fixed threshold are not included in this table
Expenditure         Contract Value       Procurement       Contracts Subject
Category             Threshold            Method           to Prior Review
(US$ '000)                              (US$ '000)
Works                 > 500 (none anticipated  ICB / LIB             > 200
100 - 500             NCB
< 100            PQ (ComPart)
Supplies, Equipment &        > 500              LIB /ICB             > 200
Vehicles                    100-500              NCB
< 100               IS/NS
/NS/Market /Auction
Technical Assistance/
Consultant Services/
Training/Audits
a) Firms                     > 100               QCBS                 > 100
b) Individuals               <50                CQ / SS          > 50 (individuals)
All TORs
Reintegration                >100                 NCB                 > 200
Sub-Projects                 <100          Commercial practices
TSN Allowances                             Commercial practices    Post-review
Operating Costs                            Commercial practices  Post-review (auditing)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: Fair
101.   Procurement Methods. The majority of goods required under the project will be procured
using national competitive bidding (NCB) and national/international shopping procedures, NCB
will follow national procedures which have been previously reviewed and found acceptable by
the Bank. Direct contracting, subject to previous no objection by the Bank, will be used only for
occasional national purchases, whenever there is only one qualified supplier of a good.
Procurement from UN agencies such as IAPSO will also be allowed as appropriate. Procurement
of works will be based on price quotation and community participation methods given the small
size of the contracts, and their location in remote areas. NCB is not anticipated, but will be used
for larger construction or rehabilitation works, and for all contracts (if any) in excess of $100,000.
Most consulting services are short term and for small contractual amounts and will be contracted
using qualification-based selection procedures. Finally, commercial practices and government
procedures, reviewed and considered adequate by the Bank, will be used for all of those activities
used in demobilization and registration practices for which conventional procurement methods
would be unsuitable. The prior review thresholds under the Project will be $200,000 for goods,
works, and $100,000 for consultant services with firms, and $50,000 for consultant services with
individuals. These thresholds may be updated after the first year of the project, based on project
performance. Bank no objection will also be required for procurement and implementation
schedules and for the consultant terms of reference (TOR) in addition to any proposed single-
source contracting.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                  27
IDA Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (*US$1,000)
| Procurement Method                      l              l
Expenditure Category            NCB    Shop/PQ   QCBS   LCICQ    Other*   Total Cost
Works                             300       150                                     450
Supplies, Equipment & Vehicles    700       300                                    1,000
Technical assistance/Consultants'                  500     250      250           1,000
Services
Reintegration Sub-Projects                                        12,000         12,000
TSN Allowances                                                    42,000         42,000
Operating Costs                                                    1,000          1,000
Unallocated                                                        2,550          2,550
Total                            1,000 1   450     500     250    57,800         60,000
* Other implies comnercial practices for operating costs and TSN Allowances, and procedures per the operations manual for sub-
projects
IV.    Project Monitoring and Evaluation
102.   Project monitoring and evaluation will draw upon a comprehensive program MIS that
will link databases concerned with: socioeconomic profiles of former soldiers, reinsertion
payments, reintegration sub-project performance, and program finances. The MOD has recently
completed a socio-economic profile survey of soldiers to be demobilized during the pilot phase of
the program that will serve as the baseline for program monitoring and evaluation. These data,
which are critical for designing reintegration support, will be updated as demobilization is
implemented in phases under the program.
103.   Other elements of the MIS include: (i) multi-sectoral and multi-functional database on
employers, training providers, consultants, service institutions and training courses offered to
demobilized soldiers, as well as on artisans and small-medium scale enterprises willing to take on
demobilized soldiers as apprentices; and (ii) a regular reporting format, updated in part
automatically and that flags progress versus planning, actual disbursement versus budget
planning, requiring intervention and justification by various levels of management in line with
their levels of authority.
104.   The project implementation will be evaluated through    self-assessments by the
implementing partners, and through impact and performance surveys by project staff after the
completion of each of the sub-projects or activities. All evaluations will be entered in the MIS for
extensive analysis and to extract lessons-learned. The self-evaluations intend to stimulate the
implementing partners to achieve the objectives of their sub-projects.
105.   The success of the MIS will depend on the satisfactory performance of all those involved
in the collection, processing, and analysis of information. This will require extensive training of
staff of the Secretariat at different levels, as well as staff of implementing partners. Particular
emphasis will be given to the fact that the MIS is not only an information system but also a tool
for management and evaluation. A small but effective internal independent auditing team will be
in place to periodically check the accuracy of the data. Supervision and monitoring of sub-
projects and activities will be the responsibility of regional monitoring officers. The data will be
used to compile monthly computerized implementation progress reports in the MIS.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                      28
106.   The Monitoring and Evaluation units of the NCDRP national and zoba offices will be
responsible for measuring project performnance against agreed performance indicators using the
MIS. A central tool in project monitoring are key performance indicators for the main
components of the project, which are listed below. They will be complemented by technical
performance indicators, including process indicators, to assess effectiveness of specific activities
under the NCDRP.
Program Phase                     Key Program Performance Indicators
Demobilization                *  Number of demobilization centers established and functioning in a
timely manner
*   Timely provision of basic services in camps (food, water and
medical screening)
*   Demobilization completed (including provision of ID, medical
screening and PDO) within 10 days per person
*   85% of ex-soldiers knowledgeable of medical and PDO topics
*   200,000 soldiers demobilized by December 2003
Reinsertion                   .  Timely payment of reinsertion benefits per payment schedules
*   Less than 4% error (double or incorrect payments) made in
reinsertion payments
Reintegration                 .  Average reintegration subproject processing by NCDRP (from
application to contracting) less than 6 weeks
*   50,000 demobilized soldiers or family members, and 50,000
community members receiving some form of economic
reintegration assistance
.   75% of demobilized soldiers pursuing economic reintegration
assistance engaged in some type of activity (training, small credit
assistance, agriculture activities) within 3 months of
demobilization
*   90% demobilized disabled soldiers receiving appropriate
assistance after demobilization
* 75% of demobilized soldiers having returned to community where
they were located before war
*   75% of demobilized soldiers engaged in productive economic
activities 1 year after demobilization
Savings and Micro Credit      *  Number of active beneficiaries
*   Repayment rate for micro-credits and portfolio yield calculated as
income divided by the average outstanding micro-credits
V.     Program Sustainability
107.   The program is designed to support the sustainable reintegration of demobilized soldiers
into mainstream social and economic life. The return to productive life by a significant proportion
of the country's labor force and the public savings incurred by reducing the armed forces are
expected to contribute in a major way to a sustainable post-conflict recovery and the development
process. Moreover, sustainability of the project is ensured through the design of implementation
and procurement arrangements that are consistent with long-term needs, and by including
sufficient resources for technical assistance and capacity building. Finally, the project promotes
sustainability by strengthening the capacity of existing institutions (Government, NGOs and
private sector) to implement reintegration activities.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex              29
VI.    Conditions of Effectiveness
108.  In the context of the preparation of the IDA-financed Phase I of the program, the
conditions of effectiveness were agreed upon:
(a) the Borrower has opened the Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account;
(b) the Borrower has furnished to the Association the following plans in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, namely: (i) a detailed plan of project activities to be
carried out, on a priority basis, during the first six month after the Effective Date; and (ii) a
general plan of Project activities to be carried out during the first Project Year;
(c) the Borrower has installed a financial management and accounting system for the
Project in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(d) the Borrower has adopted the Procurement Manual in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association;
(e) the Borrower has furnished to the Association the first Progress Report in form and
substance satisfactory to IDA;
(f) the Borrower has initiated the installation of the Management Information System in
form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
VII. Benefits
109.   The proposed project is designed to provide Government access to an adequate level of
financing to demobilize 60,000 soldiers and promote social and economic recovery following the
border conflict with Ethiopia. The major immediate benefits are:
(i)   to assist the demobilized soldiers to rebuild their livelihoods and resume productive
economic activities;
(ii)  to reverse the general slowdown of social and economic development due to the conflict
and the diversion of human resources into the military; and
(iii)  to contribute to economic recovery and fiscal stability through reallocation of public
resources from military to social and economic investments.
VIII. Risks
110.   External Risks. In case of a resumption of hostilities, the Bank would consider exercising
its remedies under the legal agreement. Even if the conflict does not resume, delays in the peace
process might result in delays in the implementation of the second and third phase of the Project.
However, the signing of the peace agreement by both parties to the conflict, the full deployment
of the UN peacekeeping force (UNMEE), and the recent acceptance of the Boundary
Commission's verdict reduce this risk. Suspension of new assistance because of continued
concerns regarding governance might jeopardize the financing of phases two and three. However,
in the context of the above positive developments it is likely that the Demobilization and
Reintegration Program remains a priority for Government and donor partners.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex              30
111.   Project-specific risks. As resources are fungible, there is the risk that project resources
are used indirectly for military spending or that savings from demobilization are not translated
into a reduction of military expenditures. However, safeguards with regards to financial
management, procurement and disbursement are outlined in the project documentation to prevent
direct abuse of project resources. Government expenditures will furthermore be monitored by the
IMF as part of its regular consultations with Eritrea and by IDA in the context of its assistance
projects.
112.   Given the limited human resource capacity in Eritrea's public and private sectors,
there is also the risk that the social and economic reintegration activities cannot be
implemented as planned. The NCDRP, therefore, will recruit highly competent staff and
focus on capacity building of implementation partners, such as government ministries and
NGOs. Conditions of Effectiveness also have been agreed on to strengthen institutional
capacities and further mitigate this risk.
IX.    Environmental and Social Aspects
113.   The demobilization and widely dispersed return of 60,000 demobilized soldiers to their
communities is not expected to have any negative environmental impact. However, the project is
classified as environmental category B because of potential, but not significant, adverse
environmental effects associated with the reintegration component. An Environmental
Assessment (EA) has been carried out in the context of the related IDA financed ERP, and
submitted to the Bank in October 2001. The EA for the EDRP will build on that assessment
which already covers major sub-components such as micro-credit financed under the SMCP,
infrastructure and agricultural sectors. This would allow for any necessary additional measures to
be built into this emergency project, thereby meeting the requirements for Emergency Recovery
Projects as stated under OP 4.01. The EA will be completed within six months of project
effectiveness.
114.   All activities under the economic reintegration component will be implemented and
supervised technically by line ministries (e.g. Agriculture, Fisheries, Public Works) in accordance
with standards applied for other Bank Programs. Assistance to the micro-projects are, in addition,
expected to be channeled largely through existing Bank projects, such as the Eritrea Conununity
Development Fund and the Emergency Reconstruction Credit, which operate under Bank-
endorsed environmental guidelines. The project will draw on the expertise of the Ministry of
Land, Environment and Water, which has established appropriate environmental guidelines and
procedures and has institutional arrangements and qualified staff to ensure their use. An
Environmental and Social Data Sheet (ESDS) has been prepared for the project.



Eritrea Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                     31
E.     ACTION PLAN
Activity                              Responsible    Completion
Demobilization:
Socioeconomic profile                                            DTF            Completed
Determination of demobilization criteria                         DTF            Completed
Identification of soldiers to be demobilized                     DTF            Completed
Identification of discharge centers                              DTF            Completed
Identification of appeals mechanism                              DTF            Completed
Identification of discharge teams                                DTF            Completed
Plan for pre-discharge orientation and                           NCDRP          Completed
production of information materials
Preparation of logistics plan                                    DTF            Completed
Preparation of discharge procedures                              DTF            Completed
Preparation of discharge centers                                 DTF            Completed
Preparation of baseline and documentation                        DTF            Completed
Establishment of Management Information System                   NCDRP          08/31/02
Pilot demobilization                                             DTF/NCDRP      04/30102
Phase I demobilization                                           DTF/NCDRP      10/31/02
Reinsertion:
Final decision on differentiation                                NCDRP          06/31/02
Plan for payment mechanisms and logistics                        NCDRP          Completed
Social Reintegration:
Working group on social reintegration established                NCDRP          Completed
Technical assistance on preparations of first-line counseling    NCDRP          08/31/02
Technical assistance to prepare information and sensitization plan  NCDRP       08/31/02
Technical assistance on second-line psychosocial counseling      NCDRP          08/31/02
Economic Reintegration:
Implementation framework for skills development and training     NCDRP/MOE      08/31/02
Technical assistance on reintegration within rural sector        NCDRP          08/31/02
Technical assistance on reintegration within micro-enterprise    NCDRP          08/31/02
Start establishment of labor market information system           NCDRP          08/31/02



Attachment I: Organizational Chart - EDRP - Central Office
COMMISSIONER
4 =-       - =====          DTF
Deputy
Commisionr                          MIS Unit
-f---------------               ----1 Legal Advice
FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION
MANAGEMENT (FAM)                                               > Monitoring & Evaluation
Finance     Procurement         Adnmin.                                      I       Auditor
Manager        Manager         Manager
Instit. &        PROGRAM MANAGEMENT (PM)
Building
Information,       Demobilization                  Psycho-     Gender           Training          Rural
Documentation      & Re-insertion                  Social                      Specialist      Development
sensitization          Unit                      Counseling
ZOBA DRP Offices
32



Organizational Chart - EDRP - ZOBA Level Offices
ZOBA BRANCH
OFFICE MANAGER
FINANCE           PSYCO-SOCIAL          PROJECT
MANAGEMENT          COUNSELING              UNIT               MIS UNIT
33



Attachment 11: Cost Estimates
Component          Unit cost Jul-Dec 02  Jan-Jun 03  Jul-Dec 03   Jan-Jun 04  Jul-Dec 04  Jan-Jun 05  Jul-Dec 05  Jan-Jun 06  Total     %
Demobilization 1/                      2,937,640        -      3,156,413         -       3,156,413        -          -          -    9,250,467  5%
Reinsertion*                          36,000,000        -     42,000,000         -      42,000,000        -          -              120,000,000 61%
Reintegration                          5,000,000  5,000,000    7,500,000    7,500,000    7,500,000  7,500,000  7,500,000  2,500,000  50,000,000 25%
Special target groups                  1,000,000  1,000,000          -           -            -           -          -         -      2,000,000  1 %
Institutional strengthening             500,000     100,000      100,000     100,000      100,000    100,000     100,000   100,000    1,200,000  1%
Secretariat (capital) 2/               1,400,000        -            -           -            -           -          -         -      1,400,000  1%
Secretariat (recurrent) 2/              679,950    679,950       511,950     511,950      403,950    403,950    403,950    403,950    3,999,600  2%
Sub-total                             47,517,590  6,779,950   53,268,363    8,111,950   53,160,363  8,003,950  8,003,950  3,003,950  187,850,067 95%
Contingencies                  5.0%    2,375,880   338,098     2,663,418     405,598     2,658,018   400,198     400,198   150,198    9,392,503  5%
Total                                 49,893,470   7,118,048   55,931,781   8,517,548   55,818,381  8,404,148  8,404,148  3,154,148  197,242,570 100%
Resource requirements (approx.)      Jul-Dec 02  Jan-Jun 03    Jul-Dec 03  Jan-Jun 04  Jul-Dec 04  Jan-Jun 05  Jul-Dec 05  Jan-Jun 06  Total    %
Phase I (July2002)                   60,949,917                                                                                                31%
Phase II (July 2003)                                          68,386,829                                                                       35%
Phase III (July 2004)                                                                   67,905,824                                             34%
Reinsertion support will include an estimated $15 million in food assistance from WFP.
34



Attachment III: Financial Management Assessment
1.    Program Management.     The GOE has established a semi-autonomous NCDRP by
Proclamation number 113/2001, dated April 10, 2001. This will be responsible for overall
program management, including ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures
will be acceptable to the government, the Bank and other cooperating partners. A Secretariat,
comprised of a Commissioner, Deputy Comrnissioner and Secretary will be responsible for the
day-to-day affairs of the NCDRP and will also manage the program. The above three positions
have already been filled through appointments by the President. This core team has in turn
commenced the process of recruiting staff to assist them perform their duties. This includes the
key position of Finance Manager for the Program, which has already been filled. The SCMP
component will be implemented by the Savings and Micro Credit Program, an autonomous unit
within the Ministry of Local Government.
2.     Accounting and financial reporting. The Finance Manager of the NCDRP Secretariat
will maintain records and accounts to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the
operations, resources, and expenditures of the program. The Finance Unit will set up and
maintain a program-specific accounting and financial management system adequate to provide
complete, accurate and timely information regarding program resources and expenditures.
Agreement will be obtained from all the cooperating partners to harmonize the financial reporting
for the program; in this regard, a quarterly progress report will be distributed to all the
cooperating partners as part of program monitoring.
3.     Special Accounts.  The Program will have three Special Accounts, of which two will
be managed by the NCDRP Secretariat. One will be used for depositing proceeds from the IDA
Credit while the other will be used for depositing proceeds from a multi-donor Trust Fund to be
managed by the Bank. The third Special Account will be managed by SCMP and will be used for
depositing the proceeds from the IDA Credit for the SCMP component. All Special Accounts will
be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational guidelines.
4.     Auditing.  Accounts of the program will be audited annually in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles. Agreement will be obtained to prepare a consolidated annual
report to satisfy the requirements of all the cooperating partners. In addition to the audit reports,
the auditors will also be required to prepare a Management Letter giving comments and
observations, and make recommendations for improvements on accounting records, systems,
controls, and compliance with financial covenants.
5.     Next Issues. The Secretariat, under the guidance of the Commissioner, will complete the
following schedule of actions:
*  The recruitment of additional qualified and experienced accounting and support staff both at
the head office, as well as in the Regional Offices.
* The establishment of a financial management and accounting system, including a Chart of
Accounts, for the program. Towards this end, the Secretariat will set up and maintain a
separate, EDRP-specific accounting, budgetary, and financial management system. The
accounting system is a critical part of the project's financial management system and its
design and operation is therefore of great importance. This will take the form of computerized
accounting software to take advantage of advances in technology, as well as meet the
challenges posed by the program due to the volume of transactions. Management will explore
35



the possibilities of using consultants, both local and international, as well as consulting with
other Bank-financed projects in the country to achieve this.
*  Development of formats and contents of the various periodic reports that will be generated
under the program. The financial reports will be generated from the computerized financial
management and accounting system, and there will therefore be a link with the Charts of
Accounts noted above. The financial reports will include quarterly program management
reports to monitor program performance; annual financial statements detailing sources and
uses of funds by expenditure, and comparison with budgets.
*  Development of a Financial Procedures Manual documenting the operations of the financial
management system and to be used as a reference document. The financial and accounting
policies and procedures adopted for the program, including the flow of funds to the Regions,
will also be documented.
*  Development of a computerized database that will form the basis of the MIS to monitor
progress of demobilized soldiers, as well as provide essential data for the program. Using this
information, the Finance Unit will compile essential lists of entitlements of the demobilized
soldiers, analyzed by Region, etc. to facilitate payments of TSN and other future payments.
6.     The above schedule of actions has commenced before negotiations. Other required
actions include, the recruitment of an Internal Auditor to spearhead the proposed internal audit
function of the Secretariat; arrangements for the external audit of the program on approved TOR;
and opening of Special Account(s) in accordance with the Bank's requirements.
7.     Risk Analysis. The risk ratings below are showing low to medium mainly because these
financial management arrangements are not yet on the ground. Mitigating factors to address the
risks have been put in place. In addition, an action plan has also been agreed with the client to
ensure that acceptable financial management arrangements are in place.
Risk                 Risk Rating   Risk Mitigation Measures
Inherent Risk:
Country-Specific                      Medium                Yes
Entity/Project-Specific               Medium                Yes
Control Risk:
Implementing Entity                   Medium                Yes
Funds Flow                            Medium                Yes
Staffing                                Low                 Yes
Accounting Policies and Procedures    Medium                Yes
Internal Audit                        Medium                Yes
External Audit                        Medium                Yes
Reporting and Monitoring              Medium                Yes
Information Systems                   Medium                Yes
8.     Country-Specific. Eritrea is a small country with a correspondingly small economy. The
recent conflict with Ethiopia, which this program is trying to address, has had a further negative
impact on the economic environment as well as the implementation capacity. Despite many
impediments to development, Eritrea has several significant factors working in its favor. It has a
very committed Government that does not tolerate corruption. It has also developed a spirit of
self-reliance which has permitted it to mobilize its people to put in substantial efforts to achieve
significant works at minimal cost.
36



9.     Entity/Project-Specific. A new entity, the National Commission for the Demobilization
and Reintegration Program has been established for the sole purpose of managing the
implementation of the program. The establishment of a semi-autonomous institution made up of
experienced professionals is a sign of commitment on the part of the Government to remove, as
far as possible, any impediments to the smooth implementation of the program. The use of a
project-specific financial management and accounting system will also address the weak financial
management and accounting environment currently found in the public sector.
10.   Implementing Entity. The challenges facing the new entity will be the lack of
experience in implementing Bank-financed projects. However, management is assembling a team
of competent staff, a number of whom have prior experience in implementing donor funded
projects. This use of a semi-autonomous institution with qualified and experienced professionals
to manage the accounting and auditing arrangements will ensure that this risk will be mitigated
once the right professionals are in place. The SCMP is familiar with Bank procedures from
implementing the savings and credit scheme under the Bank financed ECDF.
11.   Funds Flow. The program will use a quick disbursement mechanism, consisting of
disbursements in foreign exchange for purchases based on a positive list of imports. The local
currency proceeds from the sale of this foreign exchange will thereafter be deposited into a
Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account to be utilized for the Program. The Funds
disbursed under this mechanism will amount to US$30 million equivalent. Other funding
mechanisms consist of three Special Accounts with the Bank of Eritrea (BE) in United States
Dollars to which the proceeds from the FDA Credit will be deposited; and related accounts in
local currency with a commercial bank to which draw downs from the Special Account will be
credited for program financing and administrative expenses; and an account in local currency
with a commercial bank to which counterpart funding by the Government will be deposited in
respect of any expenditure of the EDRP that may be provided for in the Development Credit
Agreement.
12.   Flow of funds to the Regional Offices and other implementing agencies will be very
minimal especially in the early stages of the implementation of the program. Payments for the
TSN and the Reinsertion component will use the banking system in the country to pay directly the
demobilized soldiers in their areas of settlement. While procurement arrangements will be
initiated from the community level, the Secretariat will, as far as possible, manage the required
expenditures from the head office, including international procurement.
13.   Staffing. A Finance and Administration Manager (FAM), with requisite qualifications
and relevant experience, has been appointed in order to direct and guide the financial
management operations of the EDRP. Additional qualified and experienced accounting,
administrative and support staff will be required to assist the Finance and Administration
Manager. The levels and numbers of such staff will be determined as a matter of urgency.
Varying levels of training will be required in financial management and government accounting;
information systems and computer applications; and procedures relating to use of funds.
Adequate staffing arrangements for the SCMP are already in place.
14.   Accounting Policies and Procedures. The FM will document the internal processing
procedures and controls for the EDRP in a Financial Procedures Manual.
15.   Internal Audit. An Internal Audit function will be established in the EDRP Secretariat.
This will be used as an independent appraisal function to examine and evaluate activities of the
37



program. Reporting to the Commissioner, the mission of the Internal Audit will be to support
members of the EDRP in the effective discharge of their responsibilities.
16.   External Audit. The EDRP will be a Government program and the Office of the
Auditor-General is mandated to audit all government programs, irrespective of the sources of
funding. In general, the Auditor-General has always sub-contracted this responsibility in respect
of donor-funded projects and has indicated his doing so in respect of the EDRP. In due course,
therefore, the EDRP Secretariat, in consultation with the Auditor-General and the World Bank
and other donors, will appoint independent auditors in compliance with the financial covenants
contained in the IDA Credit Agreement. TOR for the external auditor will be modeled on Annex
XIX, Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH) of the World Bank,
which contains "Sample Terms of Reference for the Audit of Project Financial Statements (and
accompanying SOE and SA where applicable)."
17.   The following audit reports will be required to be submitted to the Bank:
Audit Report                Due Date
Project              Six months after fiscal year end
SOE                  Six months after fiscal year end
Special Account      Six months after fiscal year end
Management Letter    Six months after fiscal year end
18.   Reporting and Monitoring. The financial transactions relating to this operation will be
recorded and monitored using a project-specific computerized financial management and
accounting system. The Finance Manager will determine: (i) EDRP's Chart of Accounts as well
as the format and content of quarterly reports and annual financial statements; (ii) the selection
and adoption of accounting policies and accounting standards; and (iii) the need to include any
supplementary notes to the project financial statements in order to enhance the presentation of a
"true and fair view." Subject to a decision being made, these reports will include financial
statements (e.g. sources and application of funds; expenditure classified by project components,
disbursement categories, expenditure types, and comparison with budgets.
19.   Information Systems. The development of a Management Information System will be
crucial to the smooth implementation and monitoring of the program. As a result, an Information
Technology consultancy will be required to set up the system, including the linkage between
financial and other information.
20.   Impact on Procurement Arrangements. A procurement assessment has been carried
out and concluded that EDRP Secretariat will be capable of handling all procurement
requirements at the head office.
21.    Disbursement Arrangements. Given that: this is an emergency program with a short
project implementation period of three to four years; the use of a transitional institution whose
mandate will finish upon completion of the program activities; the fact that 60 percent of the
project costs will be disbursed within the first two years of implementation to the approximately
200,000 soldiers to be demobilized; and taking the project characteristics and risks into
consideration, agreement has been obtained from the Bank's Loan Department to dispense with
the requirement for the project to attain the minimum requirements for PMR-based
disbursements. This, therefore means that the traditional disbursement procedures will be
followed throughout the implementation period of the program. However, the Secretariat wiUl be
38



required to prepare Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to track expenditures for the
program.
22.    Action Plan. Detailed below is an action plan that will ensure that acceptable financial
management arrangements will be in place.
Action                        Responsibility    Completion date
1   Appointment of Project Finance Manager for the        NCDRP               Done
accounting department in the EDRP Secretariat
2   Preparation of Financial Management Manual
describing accounting systems and procedures, internal
controls and funds flow processes:
First draft                                         NCDRP/IDA             Board
Final draft incorporating IDA comments                review           Effectiveness
NCDRP
3    Finalization of a Chart of Accounts                  NCDRP            Effectiveness
4    Format and content of monthly/quarterly/annual     NCDRP, IDA         Effectiveness
financial reporting agreed
5    Accounting system installed and running              NCDRP            Effectiveness
6   Recruitment of an Internal Auditor for the Internal Audit  NCDRP       Effectiveness
function of the EDRP Secretariat
7    Opening Bank Accounts/Preparation initial cash flows  NCDRP           Effectiveness
8   External Audit arrangements on approved TOR           NCDRP            Effectiveness
24.    Conclusion. Subject to the next issues and action plan presented above being adequately
addressed by the Secretariat prior to Effectiveness, the World Bank's minimum financial
management requirements will be satisfied.
39



Attachment IV: Procurement
ERITREA
DEMOBILIZATION & REINTEGRATION PROJECT
Procurement Capacity Assessment
PROCUREMENT AREA                       RISK ASSESSMENT                                           COMMENTS
Poor           Fair      Satisfactory |
(a) LEGISLATION                                                         l
(i) Laws & Regulations                             X                     CPAR concluded in 2001 shows that only provisional Financial Regulations
for procurement exists. They will be soon replaced by new legislation. Most
__ _ __ _ ___   of the present regulation is based on pre-existing Ethiopian legislation.
(ii) NCB Procedures                                              X       NCB procedures are generally adequate. A list of contractors / suppliers is
used. Their qualifications and ranking (1-10) are verified each year and have
proved adequate for use in Bank financed projects.
(iii) Internal codes and manuals                                 X       A Procurement Manual, prepared in coordination with the Bank, will be used
in the project. Copies will be distributed at zoba level.
(b) PROCUREMENT CYCLE
MANAGEMENT
(i) General handling                                             X       Most procurement will be carried out through the use of simple procurement
methods and local practices. Handling by procurement specialist should not
_____________  ______________              present major inconveniences.
(ii) Procurement planning                          X                     Though planning will be key for this project, this is not always a priority in
__________          Eritrea.
(iii) Preparation of documents                                   X       Documents to be used include SBDs for procurement of goods, works and
RFP for consultants which will be based on similar Bank approved
documents for ECDF and HAMSET projects.
(iv) Management of process                                       X       Management of the project is considered satisfactory as top quality personnel
has been chosen for the coordination of the NCDRP process.
(v) Bid evaluation                                 X                     Bid evaluation is not considered a major issue, since most of procurement
will be based on simple procurement methods such as shopping and request
for quotations.
(vi) Contract award                                X                     Contract award is sometimes based on criteria not stated in the bid
documents.
40



PROCUTPEENT AREA                     RISK ASSESSMENT                                          COMMENTS
Poor          Fair      Satisfactory
(vii) Preparation and signing of                              X        The signing of the contract is usually an efficient and speedy practice in
contracts                                                              Eritrea.
(viii) Contract management                       X                     Contract management is not always satisfactory since both Contractor and
Client are not fully acquainted in the use of contractual clauses.
(c) ORGANIZATION AND
FUNCTIONS
(i) Organization of unit and                                  X        The organization of the unit is expected to be good since qualified personnel
functions                                                              has been chosen for the major tasks of coordination, procurement and
financial management.
(ii) Internal manuals and                                      X       There are at present no internal manuals, however, a Bank approved manual
instructions                                                           of implementation and procurement procedures will regulate the process.
(d) SUPPORT AND CONTROL
SYSTEMS
(i) Auditing                                     X                     Audits will be carried out by auditors both internal and external to the
project, although frequency and regularity are not always satisfactory in
Eritrea.
(ii) Legal assistance                            X                     Available from other Ministries, but rarely used.
(iii) Technical and administrative                             X       Staff is of adequate quality, though not very experienced in Bank guidelines.
controls
(iv) Code of ethics                                            X       Transparency is highly appreciated in Eritrea, and transgressions are severely
punished.
(v) Anti-corruption initiatives                                X       Eritrea is one of the top candidates for anti-corruption initiatives.
(e) RECORD KEEPING
(i) Public notices                                            X        Usually recorded and filed in archives.
(ii) Bidding documents                                         X       Usually kept on file.
(iii) Bid opening information                    X                     Not always recorded and available.
(iv) Bid evaluation reports                      X                     Usually satisfactory, but brief and not based on Bank standard form.
(v) Formal appeals and outcomes                  X                     There are very few appeals in Eritrea due to the absence of adequate
legislation protecting the bidders. Lately, following the war, there have been
several claims by contractors which have been handled slowly but
satisfactory.
(vi) Signed contract documents      _                          X       Usually kept on file.
(vii) Claims and dispute resolution              X                     There are usually very few "formal" claims. Records of letters to the Client
41



PROCUREMENT AREA                      RISK ASSESSMENT                                           COMMENTS
Poor          Fair       Satisfactory
records                                                                  are not always kept on file and available for review.
(viii) Comprehensive                              X                     Records are kept, thought gaps due to inappropriate filing have been
disbursement data                                                       reported.
(f) STAFFING                                           _                  _
Management                                                      X       Management has been carefully selected and is satisfactory.
Procurement                                                     X        One procurement specialist with good experience, and one procurement
adviser for complex issues. The arrangement is satisfactory.
Financial controls                                X                      Please refer to FM assessment.
(g) GENERAL PROCUREMENT
ENVIRONMENT
(i) Promoting a culture of                                      X       Procurement is appreciated in Eritrea and in close contact with management
accountability                                                          of the project.
(ii) Reputation of procurement                                  X       Reputation of procurement staff is on the upswing due to increased number
corps                                                                   of projects in the country and need of adequate staff.
(iii) Salary structure                            X                     Low salaries, but similar to other ministerial staff.
(iv) Freedom from political                       X                     There is a degree of political interference, though this rarely affects
interference                                                            procurement.
(v) Existence of experienced and                  X                     Eritreans have good resources and willingness to improve. Staff educated
capable staff                                                           abroad (Ethiopia, Italy, other European countries, USA) are usually the most
prepared.
(vi) Clear written standards and                                X       Though not always written there is a clear definition of roles. The Agency is
delegation of authority                                                 regulated by the Proclamation No. 113/2001 establishing a National
Commission for the Demobilization and Reintegration Program (EDRP).
(vii) Sound budget/financial                      X                     Please refer to FM assessment.
systems
(h) PRIVATE SECTOR
ASSESSMENT
(i) General efficiency and                                      X       Though not very developed, the private sector is generally efficient and
predictability                                                          reaches objectives.
(ii) Transparency                                               X       Satisfactory when compared to other African countries. Some of the
companies however are subject to political pressure / interference.
(iii) Quality of contract's                       X                     Both Contractors and Clients are not very experienced in the use of the
management                                                              contract and its clauses with the exception of large firms.
42



PROCUREMENT AREA                     RISK ASSESSMENT                                           COMMENTS
Poor          Fair       Satisfactory
(iv) General reputation                                        X        Reputation is relatively good compared to any other African private sector.
PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLDS        OVERALL
PROPOSED                          RISK
ASSESS-
MENT
Goods <US$50,000 (equivalent)
for shopping                      HIGH
<US$200,000 (equivalent) for
NCB
Works <US$50,000 (equivalent)
for small works quotations
<US$200,000 (equivalent) NCB
Consulting >US$200,000
(equivalent) by QCBS
<US$200,000 (equivalent) by
Qualifications / National
consultants
Post Review Ratio: One in 20                                            There are numerous contracts and transactions of small value. Pattern of
contracts                                                               control cannot be too intensive.
Frequency of procurement
supervision missions proposed:                                          Form prepared by: Francesco P. Sarno (Lead Procurement Specialist -
One every 4 months (includes                                            AFTQK)
special procurement supervision                                         Signature Date June 21, 2001
for post-review/audits)
Though the Executing Agency (the Commission) has been created only
recently for the project, it can count on previous demobilization experience
of ERREC and on the support of coordination with other, experienced
executing agencies working under Bank-financing. In conclusion, the
Commission should be able to adequately manage and administer the simple,
but expeditious procurement under the project.
43



Attachment V: Micro Finance and Micro Business Development Services
Objectives, Budget and Performance Indicators
I. Component Objectives
The proposed micro finance and micro business development program will draw on experience
and lessons learned under the ECDF Project. The program will be aimed at developing a
sustainable business support system for micro and small enterprises. It has three main objectives:
A.     SMCP Expansion. Support the sustainable development and institutionalization of the
Savings and Micro Credit Program (SMCP). Here the program will address the expansion
of SMCP to provide sustainable micro finance services to large numbers of poor
households nation-wide, as well as the transformation of SMCP into an independent and
legally recognized micro finance institution.
B.     Business Development Services. Support the development of micro and small business
through both supply-led and demand-driven BDS initiatives that will be delivered
through existing local service providers - ultimately on a profitable basis.
C.     Legal and Regulatory Support. Support the development of an appropriate policy,
legal, and regulatory environment for micro finance. Here the program will specifically
address the legal framework for the transformation of SMCP, but within the context of
formulating government policy, and a legal and regulatory framework for micro finance
in general.
II. Budget and Performance Indicators
The following budget is proposed for the legal and regulatory component of the program:
A.     SMCP Expansion
A line of credit amounting to US$ 4.92 million is expected to increase the outreach of the SMCP
to 16,500 clients by 2004.
Since interest income is expected to cover all operating expenses, including capacity building, but
excluding technical assistance proposed under this program, it is suggested that US$ 4.5 mnillion
be allocated to increase the SMCP's loan fund and US$ 420,000 to cover technical assistance.
However, sufficient flexibility should be built into the program to enable it also to fund additional
capacity building, if so required. Table 1 illustrates the estimated budget breakdown.
44



Table 1: Indicative budget - Savings and Credit Component
Budget ('000$)                2002     2003     2004     Total
Portfolio growth'                           2,050     2,050     400     4,500
Institutional  Capacity  Development  and     100       50       50       200
Operational Consolidation                _
Institutional transformation and registration as a  -   45       45        90
legal entity
Impact assessment                              35      60*       35       130
Total                                       2,185     2,205     530     4,920
* Mid-term review
The following milestone will be achieved during program implementation
* Product Management
> Process for the implementation of systematic market research and product
development processes developed
> Market research/review exercise implemented
> Product refining/design activities implemented
* Operational systems
Sk Procedures for product management, human resource management, financial
management and performance management reviewed and updated
> Internal control measures defined and implemented
* Human resource management
> New compensation policies reviewed and implemented
> Staff training and development program reviewed and implemented
* Financial Management
>  New accounting system implemented
)0 Risk management process reviewed and implemented
>  Financial reporting practices reviewed and implemented
> Internal audit function established
> External audit conducted
>  Strategic business planning implemented
>  Financial and institutional performance against business plan targets monitored
>  MIS reviewed and implemented
* Organizational and institutional transformation
> New legal structure defined
> New organizational and governance structure designed and implemented
Financial Performance Indicators
Table 2 provides an overview of the most common performance indicators used in micro finance.
business planning exercise. The targets must be set for each of the three program years, i.e. 2002,
'Assuming that SMCP will become increasingly self-funding
45



2003 and 2004. The MIS system must be further developed to enable SMCP to track most of
these targets on at least a monthly basis. It is important that the definitions of certain indicators
that SMCP currently uses be reviewed to reflect more properly the progress it makes towards full
financial self-sustainability.
Table 2: Performance Indicators
Performance Indicator                    Performance Indicator
Operational Efficiency                   Outreach
* Administrative efficiency
*  Loans outstanding per credit          All loan products
officer                               *  Number of active borrowers
*  Loans outstanding per promoter        *   Number of active loans
*  Active clients per credit officer     *   Portfolio outstanding
*  Active clients per promoter           *   Average loan size
* Active clients per village bank
*  Active clients per sub-region         Tier I
*  Loans outstanding/SMCP staff          *   Number of active borrowers
*  Active clients/SMCP staff             *   Number of active loans
* Portfolio outstanding
Profitability                            *   Average loan size
* Portfolio yield
*  Nominal interest rate                 Tier 11
*  Effective Interest rate               *   Number of active borrowers
*  Operational self-sufficiency          *   Number of active loans
*  Financial self-sufficiency            *   Portfolio outstanding
*  Adjusted return on assets             *   Average loan size
Portfolio Quality                        Mandatory savings
* Repayment rate
*  Portfolio at risk                     Voluntary savings
* Portfolio in arrears
*  Delinquency rate                      Percent women clients
*  Reserve rate
*  Loan Loss Rate
B.     Business Development Services
An estimated US$ 1,97 million will be allocated to the BDS component and to cover the expenses
as illustrated in table 3 overleaf. It is not possible to be too prescriptive at this stage, especially on
the activities and expenditures in the second phase. It is proposed that these should be decided
jointly by the World Bank EDRP Task Manager and his counterpart in the Government of Eritrea
on the basis of recommendations from the managers of the BDS Unit and SMCP together with
the BDS Advisory Group. It is possible that not all the $2m budgeted for the BDS program will
be required, in which case a decision can be taken on wiring/transferring any funds surplus to
requirements to SMCP' s micro finance program.
46



It will be noted that the budget includes a line for technical assistance. It is recommended that
this is provided by a single consultancy firm, selected on the basis of a competitive tender, rather
than by one or more independent individuals. This will allow a necessary degree of flexibility,
e.g. in the choice of the best individual for a particular pilot project, and the provision of ongoing
technical back-up by email and telephone.
Table 3 illustrates the estimated budget breakdown for Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the BDS program:
= NIN1115*11 M.             2002      2003     2004
Running costs for BWS Unit - fuel,
maintanance, stationary, rent, other, per diem  5,111                      5,111
Salaries for three coordinators          11,556                           11,556
Support staff Secr/accountant, driver     3,333            __    _         3,333
Advisory Board                            2,222                            2,222
Equipment - 3 computers, two cars, fax,
printer, photocopier, furniture          70,000                           70,000
Technical assistance                    200,000                          200,000
Study tours, training for BDS Unit      100,000   100,000 C              200,000
Phase 1 Sub-Total                       392,222   100,000 C              492,222
Phase 2
Running costs for BDS Unit                          5,878    6,759        12,637
Salaries for three coordinators                    13,289    15,282       28,571
Support staff Secr/accountant, driver               3,833    4,408         8,242
Advisory Board                                      2,556    2,939         5,494
Technical Assistance                              150,000   50,000       200,000
Implementation of at least 3 pilots               700,000  500,000      1,200,000
875,556  579,389     1,454,944
GRAND TOTAL                                       975,556   579,389     1,947,167
GRAND TOTAL Nakfa                                                      26,286,750
Performance Indicators for Phase 1
By the end of the first phase of the program, it is expected that the following will have been
achieved:
*  the BDS Unit will have developed comprehensive understanding of and substantive
competence in the market development approach to BDS and how it might best be
applied in Eritrea
*  the staff of the BDS Unit and the representatives of the Advisory Group will have
established an effective working relationship, together able to influence the growth and
future of BDS in Eritrea
*  the BDS Unit will have produced a strategy describing what will be done in the second
phase
*  this strategy will include an outline of the longer term future role of the Unit, including
recommendations on the most appropriate institutional 'home' for the Unit and to whom
the head of the Unit should be responsible
47



Performance Indicators for Phase 2
The performance indicators for the second phase will be:
* a number of pilot projects established and initial evaluations carried out
* capacity to monitor the outreach, cost effectiveness, impact and sustainability of BDS
interventions established
* options for the future of the BDS Unit identified
C.     Legal and Regulatory Support
Table 4: Indicative budget - Legal and Regulatory Component
Milestone                        Estimated Total Cost
Legal and regulatory options study                     US$ 20,000
Development of micro finance policy                    US$ 20,000
Study tours                                            US$ 40,000
TOTAL                                                  US$ 80,000
Performance Indicators
The following rmilestones will be achieved during program implementation:
* Legal and regulatory study completed
* Government micro finance policy defined
* Legal and regulatory status of SMCP defined
Detailed Appraisal Documents are on Projectfile.
48



Eritrea at a glance                                                             9h7/01
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan     Low-
Eritrea    Africa  income      Development di.amond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       4.1       659     2,459                jtie expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    170       480      420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     0.72       313     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (V.)                                       2 7       2.6       -9
Laborforce(Y.)                                        2.7       2i        ,.4     GNI                             GvilSp
per                           pr-innary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                             capita                      erro!lruari
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)               19        34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       51        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              61         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             44         .         ..         Access tc impro-ed water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)    7        55        76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    46        38       38
Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschool-age population)     53        78        96                 Eritrea
Male                                                 59        85       102                   ow-,rcome group
Female                                               48        71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            1. 56                      0 61
Gross domestic nvestmenUGDP                                    54 6      51 3
Exports of goods and services/GDP                               11 7     22.7                    Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                                     -39 9    -27 0
Gross national savings/GDP                                      38.0     41.4
Current account balance/GDP                                    -36 4    -17.5      Domestic
Interest payments/GOP                                           05        n.7     savings                     nve    e
Total debtUGDP                                                 43 1      49.4
Total debt serv[ce/exports                                       1.8      13
Present value of debtGDP                                        26 1
Present value of debtlexports                                   70 7
indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000 04
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                          3.2    -12.6       6.5       93                   Entrea
GDP per capita                        .      0.4    -15.1       3.7       66                    Low-income goup
Exports of goods and services         .      -7.0   -35.8      13.5      189 9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of investment and GDP 1i%l
(% of GDP)                                                                        2
Agriculture                                    .     19.2      17 1
Industry                                      ..     29.4      29.2         .      OQ_j
Manufacturing                                ..     25.8      14 9        .             9                :               1
Services                                             51.5      53 7
Private consumption                                     ..     81 6         ..    -2
General government consumption                                  58 3        .
Imports of goods and services                                  106.3     86 1
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and imports (%
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                       .41
Industry                                                                          25               _
Manufacturing                                                                                            is,
Services                                                     .         .         -20-
Private consumption                                                .40
General government consumption                 .                            -      1                                      i
Gross domestic investment                               .                                       Exports  -'n    p-s
Imports of goods and services                  .     10.7      12.3      107 L7_
Note. 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared wth its income-group average If data ale missing, the diarrornd w,l
be incomplete.



Eritrea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       25 T
Consumer prices                               ..       ..       9.0     19.9    Z2 I
Implicit GOP deflator                                   ..      8.2     17.7    1' t
Government finance                                                                s
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                                .        ..     39.9     34.1            95     96    97   98    99    o0
Current budget balance                         .        .      -15.0   -34.3                  GDP deflator  S   CPI
Overall surpiusldeficit                                 .      -78.1   -67.6    1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mll.)
Total exports (fob)                                     ..       20       35     aao
n.a
n.a.                                                                           400 
Manufactures                                 ..      ..
Total mports (ci)                             ..        .       495      471                    f**
Food                                         ..      ..        89      117     200
Fuel and energy                              ..       .        34       42
Capital goods                                .
Export price index (1995=100)                                                         9a ..  .  ..
Importprice index (1995=100)                  ..       ..lExports                                         atlmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1980    1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP(%
Exports of goods and services                 ..       ..        66      138     20T
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..       597      523     1-
Resource balance                              ..       ..      -532     -386         i4l
Net income                                              ..        6        .W                   go        go   eq   Oa
Net current transfers                          .        .       322      289     -1'           i
Current account balance                        .        .      -205     -107     -2, 
Financing items (net)                         ..       ..       225      128    -32  -
Changes in net reserves                       ..       ..       -20      -22     s0 _
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..        53       37
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              ..       ..       8.5       9.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                                   __
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           .        ..      242      300
IBRD                                                           G0 02
IDA                                                  .         53       84               F 31
Tota! debt service                                     ..         4        3                       0 14
IBRD                                                            0        0
IDA                                                  ..        0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants
Official creditors                                   ..       108       50
Private creditors                                    ..         0        0                                  U: 23
Foreign direct investment                             ..        0        0            E. 166
Portfolio equity                             .        .         ..       .
World Bank program
Commitments                                          ..         0      170      A-IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                         .        20       32      E- IDA   D - Other multilaterat  F - Private
Principal repayments                                 ..        0         0      C- IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                            ..        20       32    __
Interest payments                                    ..        0         0
Net transfers                               ..       ..        19       31
The World Bank Group. hhp://www.worldbank.orgldatal                                                                9/7/01



IBRD 31065
/                                                           SAUDI ARABIA
S UDAN                                                                                                                     E R I T R E A
7             -   ~~~~~~~MAJOR ROADS
I ,_( I j .   .                                                    /                --  -     SECONDARY ROADS
NORTHENIK                                                                                    -     RAILROADS
-17  Et  S   ~ _t  N O RED SH EAN                                                                 . INTERMITTENT STREAMS
0 SELECTED TOWNS
I            ..e                                 )                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REG ON CAPITALS
F.M                                                 U                    * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
.REGI ON ROLNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-16      , Gul-                           * _'                       I
Gal.  ,'  \  43.,            A--n                             *fl ~~~~~11Thimo.p-,opnd-cby,thM,0,g                      6tIIeodBn
5  K.rT                             ,21-4MASSAWA,,                                                            aro  f-a Eah ba-darl-s
ToaKvsoaa/  '      Ad5d                     - u     I.                                                                             ,1 -,  50 1 KILOMETERS   130
.-,QASI-BARKA      CE1A     I
-15'        3- 'ri                  I                                                                     m   |        .I  
am.t ;, ,, /, S =<\,.  ,   $ a.  /   ,a w ;       ;lERITREA ,
L;  j   X./                          \ \              \ ''       '   ' ::          1 1 'UDAN                oll8Cull  ,li ok l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1  U
i \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUTHERN-.. ;|-0 s
/                                                    ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\,,,RED SEA ; 
I  *  ( ILIlIlt  - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E*I Tr-H-IJ P1                              I
i        E     T H   I LO P | A \s  J ---  TCHU I   I  A                                      5- ;
13                                                                                                   _                                               lf  f
0g- '.'''  IS 4              ,     C-A  |            ;.'1'  f l
3,7-            38< 319-                             _D                                 J   U.                  t
AUGUST 2000



