Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3641 ER
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project)
between
THE STATE OF ERITREA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 25, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3641 ER
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 25, 2002, between THE STATE OF ERITREA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated November 
11, 2000, describing the Borrower’s program of actions, objectives and policies designed to carry 
out its demobilization and reintegration program (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring 
Page  2
the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association during the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to:          (i) 
assist in the financing of the Project (which forms part of the Program); and (ii) assist in the 
support of the Program during the execution thereof;
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from various Participating Partners (as hereinafter 
defined) grants and loans to assist in financing the Program; and
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by extending the Credit to the 
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
Page  3
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Bank of Eritrea” or “BE” means the Bank of Eritrea, the Borrower’s central bank, 
established and operating pursuant to Proclamation No. 93/1997;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means an individual or group of persons who have met the 
eligibility criteria set out in the SMCP Operational Manual and the requirements of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement and who, as a result, have received or are entitled to receive, a Micro-Credit for 
the carrying out of a Microproject;
(c)
“Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account” means the account referred to 
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Demobilized Soldiers” means persons discharged by the Borrower from its 
armed forces after December 12, 2000; 
(e)
“Demobilization Task Force” or “DTF” means the Demobilization Task Force 
established and operating in MOD (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
“Finance Manager” means the Finance Manager referred to in paragraph 3 (b) 
(ii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, to a Recipient out of the 
proceeds of the Credit for the financing of a Subproject; 
(h)
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement for a Grant referred to in paragraph 6 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(i)
“Environmental Assessment” means the document referred to in Section 3.06 of 
this Agreement outlining procedures and guidelines to be followed in order to address, reduce 
and/or mitigate potential negative environmental effects under the Project;
(j)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations;
(k)
“Management Information System” means a computerized database and tracking 
system installed at the NCDRP to monitor progress and activities under the Program;
(l)
“Micro-Credit” means a loan made or proposed to be made by SMCP to a 
Beneficiary for the purpose of financing a Microproject under Part D of the Project in 
accordance with paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in accordance with the SMCP 
Page  4
Operational Manual;
(m)
“Micro-Credit Agreement” means an agreement between SMCP and a 
Beneficiary setting forth the terms and conditions under which a Micro-Credit shall be made 
available to the Beneficiary for the purpose of financing a Microproject under Part D of the 
Project;
(n)
“Microproject” means an activity or service financed, or proposed to be financed 
through a Micro-Credit made under Part D of the Project which meets the criteria set fourth in 
the SMCP Operational Manual and the requirements of paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(o)
“Midterm Review” means the mid-term review referred to in paragraph 8 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(p)
“MOD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Defense;
(q)
“Nakfa” means currency of the Borrower;
(r)
“National Commission for Demobilization and Reintegration Program” or 
“NCDRP” means the National Commission for the Demobilization and Reintegration Program, 
established and operating by virtue of the Borrower’s Proclamation No. 113 of 2001;
(s)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations;
(t)
“Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual adopted for the Program 
under the Borrower’s Proclamation No. 113 of 2001;
(u)
“Participating Partners” means the Participating Partners referred to in Recital C 
of the Preamble to this Agreement contributing funds or technical advisory services for the 
Program, and “Participating Partner” means each and every Participating Partner individually;
(v)
“Procurement Manager” means the Procurement Manager referred to in 
paragraph 3 (b) (i) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(w)
“Procurement Manual” means the manual detailing the procurement 
arrangements agreed between the Association and the Borrower to be utilized in the 
implementation of the Program;
(x)
“Progress Report” means any of the reports referred to in paragraph 4 and 7 (b) 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(y)
“Project Year” means the 12-month period beginning from the Effective Date 
Page  5
and ending 12 months thereafter and each successive 12-month period following thereafter;
(z)
“Recipient” means an individual or group of persons who have met the eligibility 
criteria set out in the Operational Manual and the requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
and who, as a result, have received or are entitled to receive a Grant for the carrying out of a 
Subproject;
(aa)
“Secretariat” means the Secretariat of NCDRP; 
(bb)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(cc)
“Special Account I” means the account for expenditures under Parts A through 
C;
(dd)
“Special Account II” means the account for expenditures under Part D;
(ee)
“SMCP” means Savings and Micro Credit Program, an administrative body 
within the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of local government established and operating under 
the Borrower’s laws;
(ff)
“SMCP Operational Manual” means the Manual to be adopted pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (g) of this Agreement and referred to in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement outlining procedures and guidelines to be followed by SMCP in the implementation 
of Part D of the Project;
(gg)
“Subproject” means an activity or service financed, or proposed to be financed 
through Grants made under the Project which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual and the requirements of paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(hh)
“TEVT” means the Borrower’s technical education and vocational training 
system;
(ii)
“UNFPA” means the United Nations Fund for Population Activities;
(jj)
“UNICEF” means the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund;
(kk)
“WFP” means the World Food Program; 
(ll)
“WHO” means the World Health Organization; and
(mm)
“Zoba” means an administrative region in the Borrower’s territory established 
Page  6
and operating under the Borrower’s laws.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to forty-eight million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
48,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made 
under a Grant to meet the reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for a 
Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars 
two separate special deposit accounts (“Special Account I” in respect to Parts A through C of the 
Project and “Special Account II” in respect to Part D of the Project) in the Bank of Eritrea on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each respective Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Page  7
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and 
September 15 commencing September 15, 2012 and ending March 15, 2042. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on March 15, 2022 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to 
in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
Page  8
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) NCDRP is with respect to Category (1) in Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) 
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby entrusts 
BE with the responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications relating to the said 
Category (1) and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the 
Association in support of such applications.
(c) 
The withdrawal applications mentioned in subparagraph (b) above shall, to the 
extent practicable, be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less 
than $500,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through NCDRP and SMCP with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, until 
completion of the Project: (a) open and thereafter maintain in Nakfa a Demobilization and 
Reintegration Fund Account in the Bank of Eritrea; (b) deposit into the Demobilization and 
Reintegration Fund Account the funds in Nakfa derived from the imports financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (1) in the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
(c) use the funds deposited in the Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account exclusively to 
Page  9
make payments for the demobilization and reinsertion of Demobilized Soldiers.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Project, or any action taken under the Project.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, no later than six months 
after the effectiveness date, and thereafter implement, the Environmental Assessment, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts and the Demobilization and Reintegration Fund 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
Page  10
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
that the Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account and/or Special 
Accounts to have been used for purposes other than those specified in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement; and
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant 
or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
(including a grant or loan made by a Participating Partner) shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefore; or
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
Page  11
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Demobilization and Reintegration Fund Account;
(b)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association the following plans in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, namely: (i) a detailed plan of Project activities to be 
carried out, on a priority basis, during the first six months after the Effective Date; and (ii) a 
general plan of Project activities to be carried out during the first Project Year;
(c)
the Borrower has installed a financial management and accounting system for the 
Project in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(d)
the Borrower has adopted the Procurement Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association;
(e)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association the first Progress Report in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(f)
the Borrower has initiated the installation of the Management Information 
System in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and
(g)
the Borrower has furnished the SMCP Operational Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety days (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  12
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
responsible for Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance 
P. O. Box 895
Asmara
Eritrea
Telex:
Facsimile:
583492421150
291 1 127947
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Asmara, 
The State of Eritrea as of the day and year first above written.
THE STATE OF ERITREA
Page  13
By
/s/
Berhane Abrehe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit
% of
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Eligible Imports
100% of foreign
specified in the Annex
expenditures
to this Schedule:
(a) 16,700,000
(b)
8,300,000
(c)
8,300,000
(2)
Works
360,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(3)
Goods excluding
860,000
100% of foreign
items under 
expenditures and
Category (1)
95% of local
expenditures
(4)
Consultants’
100% 
Page  14
services, training
and audits
(a) Parts A, B and C
800,000
(b) Part D
810,000
(5)
Grants
3,970,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(6)
Micro-Credits under Part D
4,550,000
100% of amounts disbursed
(7)
Operating Costs
           95%
(a) Parts A, B, and C
800,000
(b) Part D
100,000
(8)
Unallocated
2,550,000
TOTAL
48,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, 
communications, transport, travel, supervision costs and Project support staff but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of:
(a)
a Grant unless the Grant has been made in accordance with eligibility criteria 
and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual and Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;
(b)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
Page  15
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding SDR 16,700,000, may be made in respect of 
Category (1) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after December 5, 2000; 
(c)
expenditures under Category (1) for goods supplied under a contract which any 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit, loan or grant;
(d)
expenditures under Category (1) for: (i) goods intended for military or 
paramilitary purposes or for luxury consumption, and (ii) used goods; 
(e)
expenditures under Category (1) unless the Borrower has furnished to the 
Association a progress report in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and
(f)
expenditures under category (6) for Micro-Credits under Part D unless the 
reports, lists and evidences referred to in paragraphs 4 and 7(b) of Schedule 4 this Agreement 
have been furnished and the Micro-Credit has been duly made in accordance with eligibility 
criteria and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the SMCP Operational Manual and 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent 
each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding:             (A) $100,000 equivalent 
each for consulting firms; and (B) $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and (d) 
Operating Costs and training, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
ANNEX
TO SCHEDULE 1
Eligible Imports
1.
Agricultural equipment and inputs.
2.
Petroleum and fuel products.
3.
Construction materials.
4.
Transport vehicles and spare parts.
5.
Livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies.
Page  16
6.
School supplies and equipment.
7.
Medical supplies and equipment.
8.
Construction equipment industrial machinery and spare parts.
9.
Electrical equipment, machinery, materials and parts.
10.
Industrial raw materials and chemicals.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to consolidate macroeconomic stability in the Borrower’s 
territory and contribute to economic recovery in the said territory through the: (a) first phase of 
the demobilization program of about 60,000 soldiers in its armed forces; (b) the provision of 
reinsertion support to the Demobilized Soldiers; (c) the support in phases of the social and 
economic reintegration of Demobilized Soldiers over a period of 3 to 4 years; and (d) the 
mobilization and strengthening of the capacities of the Borrower’s ministries and departments, 
private sector firms, community organizations, and other local agencies and entities participating 
in the implementation of the Project in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the 
delivery of services to Demobilized Soldiers.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Demobilization 
1.
The carrying out of the first phase of the program to demobilize about 60,000 soldiers in 
the Borrower’s armed forces, including: (i) the demobilization, on a pilot basis, of about 5,000 
soldiers to test the applicable demobilization procedures and processes; (ii) the preparation by: 
(A) the MOD of clear and transparent demobilization criteria; and (B) the Demobilization Task 
Force (DTF) of MOD of a logistics plan to ensure the smooth processing of demobilization; (iii) 
the preparation of an information package to provide relevant information to soldiers selected for 
demobilization; (iv) the establishment of an independent appeals mechanism within MOD to 
determine appeals relating to demobilization; (v) the development of a non-transferable 
identification system capable of ensuring that only eligible ex-soldiers have access to 
demobilization benefits; (vi) the implementation of pre-discharge orientation and preparation of 
information materials to prepare Demobilized Soldiers for return to civilian life; (vii) the 
implementation of medical screening and voluntary counseling and testing for HIV/AIDS; and 
(viii) the transportation of the Demobilized Soldiers to the Zobas in which they will reside for 
registration purposes.
2.
The collection by the Demobilization Task Force of socioeconomic data on soldiers 
slated for demobilization to be used in project implementation.
Page  17
Part B
: Reinsertion
1.
The provision to: (a) all Demobilized Soldiers and their families of a basic transition 
support; and (b) some Demobilized Soldiers of enhanced support on the basis of relative 
vulnerabilities as determined by their health status in accordance with pre-determined and 
transparent criteria.
2.
The establishment of clear and simple payment procedures, including safeguard 
procedures to ensure transparency and accuracy of the payment process.
3.
The importation of goods specified in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement  to 
support the reinsertion of about 60,000 Demobilized Soldiers.
Part C
: Social and Economic Reintegration
1.
(a)
The carrying out of: (i) programs to familiarize local authorities and 
communities with: (A) the needs of Demobilized Soldiers and their families; and (B) the 
opportunities and challenges of reintegration; and (ii) program sensitization workshops for: (A)  
staff of key government ministries, staff at the central, Zoba and sub-Zoba levels; and (B) NGOs 
and communities.
(b)
The provision by members of the National Union of Eritrean Women and the 
National Union of Eritrean Youth and Students trained in counseling and community 
development work of first-line counseling and reintegration support to Demobilized Soldiers and 
other war-affected groups.
(c)
The strengthening and expansion of existing outreach and community support 
programs, and the funding of new activities that can strengthen community participation in the 
social reintegration of Demobilized Soldiers and war-affected groups.
2.
(a)
The strengthening of the Borrower’s reintegration counseling capacity including: 
(i) assisting the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare to expand during 2001 
through 2003 the intake of first-line counseling trainees; (ii) support training in first-line 
counseling of volunteers and members of NGOs; and (iii) strengthening of second-line 
counseling as feasible.
(b)
The development of financial self-sufficiency of Demobilized Soldiers’ 
households through:
(i)
referral services on employment, subprojects, apprenticeships, training 
and education opportunities;
(ii)
the provision of skills development and training opportunities, including 
increasing the capacity of the Borrower’s TEVT to:      (A) provide 
literacy and numeracy upgrading for about 60,000 soldiers after 
discharge from the armed forces; (B) regenerate the Borrower’s Skills 
Development Centers; (C) assist existing, emerging and new private 
training providers; (D) refocus basic training programs on the real skills 
needs for development, self-employment, micro and small enterprise 
Page  18
development in urban and rural sectors; (E) increase TEVT provision for 
about 600 persons at intermediate and about 400 persons at advanced 
levels; (F) provide mechanisms to improve on-the-job training (including 
apprenticeships) for 9,000 persons within the formal and informal 
private sector, construction works, agricultural and community projects; 
(G) assist individual Demobilized Soldiers with the payment of fees 
payable for training undertaken under the Project; (H) provide funding 
support to groups and for community initiatives requiring specific 
training for subprojects aimed at defined employment and economic 
opportunities; and (I) support incentives for on-the-job private sector 
training providers;
(iii)
support of small-scale rural development activities to: (A) address the 
immediate employment and income needs of Demobilized Soldiers in 
rural areas; and (B) integrate Demobilized Soldiers and other 
war-affected groups in productive economic and agricultural activities; 
and
(iv)
employment promotion and training in the construction trades, 
including: (A) the identification of job opportunities and promotion in 
the construction sector; (B) the improvement of construction skills and 
management capacities of Demobilized Soldiers and contractors who 
employ Demobilized Soldiers; (C) increasing the capacity training and 
business development infrastructure; and (D) the testing of preferential 
arrangements in hiring and procurement of benefit to Demobilized 
Soldiers.
(c)
The installation of a labor market information system to provide an information 
base on the economic reintegration opportunity structure for Demobilized Soldiers.
Part D:
Savings and Micro-Credit
The establishment of: (i) Business Development Services (including business training) at 
the Zoba level to support the start-up and expansion of income generating activities; (ii) 
micro-credit services to increase the availability of credit for Demobilized Soldiers and other 
eligible entrepreneurs; and (iii) a legal and regulatory support.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  19
Part A
: General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Modified International Competitive Bidding
Goods which the Association has agreed may be procured under contracts awarded under 
paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines.
2.
Limited International Bidding
Goods which the Association has agreed that can only be purchased from a limited 
number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and works 
estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
4.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
Page  20
under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in 
accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Direct Contracting
The following goods may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines: (a) goods which are estimated 
to cost less than $500 equivalent; and (b) goods listed in the Procurement Manual.
6.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, office supplies and equipment, and agricultural inputs may be procured from 
the following UN agencies, namely UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO, WFP and IAPSO in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
7.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
8.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing 
$200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the 
Guidelines.
9.
Procurement of Commodities
Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized international 
commodity market or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, 
in accordance with paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines.
10.
Community Participation
Where in the interest of the project sustainability, or to achieve certain specific social 
objectives of the Project, it is desirable to call for the participation of local communities, the 
procedures stated in section 2.6 of the Procurement Manual and consistent with paragraph 3.15 
Page  21
of the Guidelines shall apply.
11.
Market/Auction Purchase
Purchase of a small number of items estimated to cost less than the aggregate amount of 
$100,000 equivalent may be made at auction and markets through commercial practice based on 
the prevailing demand and offer of the day in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
12.
Commercial Practices
Activities included in the demobilization and social and economic reintegration 
components of the Project, may be procured under established local private sector or commercial 
practices, acceptable to the Association and described in the Procurement Manual, in cases in 
which the Association determines that conventional procurement practices are not feasible or 
advantageous to the carrying out of the Project.
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan and the Procurement Manual as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of less than $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Page  22
Part A
: General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for which a fixed budget can be precisely defined may be procured, as an 
alternative to procurement under Quality and Cost Based Selection procedures, under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Quality-Based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent shall be procured under 
Page  23
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Individual Consultants
Consulting services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
Page  24
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. The Operational Manual shall set out details of all procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the Operational Manual if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or 
waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of 
the objectives thereof.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain the NCDRP and its Secretariat as well as SMCP in 
a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
NCDRP shall be responsible for: (i) the overall management of the Project; and 
(ii) ensuring the satisfactory operation of the Project’s financial management and reporting 
procedures.
(c)
The Secretariat shall have a core team which shall include a Commissioner, a 
Deputy Commissioner, a Secretary, Program Manager and a Finance and Administration 
Manager. The Secretariat shall be responsible for the day-to-day management of the operations 
of NCDRP, including the Program. The Secretariat shall, acting in coordination with the 
Demobilization Task Force, carry out: (i) the demobilization and reintegration  activities 
included in the Project and related monitoring and evaluation activities; and (ii) financial 
management and procurement of activities.
(d)
The SMCP shall be responsible for implementing a micro-finance scheme and a 
micro business development service scheme under Part D of the Project.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish in a form and with functions and resources 
satisfactory to the Association a Finance Unit to be located in the Secretariat. The functions of 
the Finance Unit shall include responsibility for the maintenance of the accounting and 
management system designed for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall employ and assign to the Project persons with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Association to serve as: (i) the Project’s Procurement 
Page  25
Manager; and (ii) the Finance Manager of the Project.
(c)
The Secretariat’s functions shall include responsibility for: (i) the management 
of local level procurement of goods and services (particularly those related to reintegration 
activities); (ii) the training of Zoba-level procurement officers; and (iii) the preparation of annual 
procurement plans for the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall within six months of the Effective Date, and semiannually thereafter, 
furnish to the Association: (i) a list of Demobilized Soldiers identifying the amount of funds 
payable to the Demobilized Soldiers under the Program; (ii) evidence showing that a random 
sample of at least 2% of the number of Demobilized Soldiers on the list furnished to the 
Association have: (A) in accordance with the said list received the amounts payable to them; and 
(B) acquired the goods and services intended for them under the Program.
5.
(a)
The Borrower shall ensure that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Subprojects shall be promoted, identified, appraised, approved, carried out and monitored in 
accordance with the procedures and other provisions set forth or referred to in the Operational 
Manual.
(b)
Applicants for Grants shall meet relevant criteria set out in the Operational 
Manual with respect to the making of Grants.
6.
The Borrower shall enter into agreements satisfactory to the Association as a condition 
for the making of Grants. The terms and conditions of each Grant Agreement shall inter
alia
:
(a)
require that the Recipient: (i) carries out the Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial 
standards; and (ii) maintains adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures relating to the Subproject;
(b)
require that the goods, works and services to be financed from the proceeds of 
the Grant shall: (i) be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and economy 
and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject or Subprojects; and
(c)
reserve for the Borrower the right to:
(i)
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the Association shall 
so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction included in 
the Subproject or Subprojects, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(ii)
obtain all information as the Borrower or the Association shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and financial 
Page  26
conditions of the Recipient; and
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of the Recipient to use the proceeds of the 
Grant upon the failure by the Recipient to perform any of its obligations 
under the Grant Agreement.
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
without limitation to or restriction upon its other reporting requirements under 
the provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall with effect from the quarter ending 
September 30, 2002 submit, quarterly, to the Association for review, progress reports on the 
implementation of the Project, said progress reports covering, among other things: (i) the status 
of disbursements and procurement; (ii) the volume of imports, their clearance through the ports 
and transportation to the place of use; (iii) the effectiveness of internal distribution of goods and 
services to Beneficiaries under the Project; (iv) the status of reintegration activities, (v) the 
generation and use of counterpart funds; and (vi) any Program implementation issues, including 
the measures recommended to ensure: (A) the efficient carrying out of the Project; and (B) the 
achievement of the objectives the Project; and
(c)
review with the Association by January 31 and July 31of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Project activities 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
8.
(a)
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 2003, carry out jointly with the 
Association, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out, no later than three months after the completion of 
the Midterm Review the recommendations of the Midterm Review as agreed with the 
Association and set out in an action plan for the Project satisfactory to the Association.
9. 
SMCP shall enter into agreements satisfactory to the Association as a condition for the 
making of Micro-Credits. The terms and conditions of each Micro-Credit Agreement shall inter
alia
:
(a)
require that the Beneficiary: (i) carries out the Microproject with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial 
standards; and (ii) maintains adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures relating to the Microproject;
Page  27
(b)
require that the goods, works and services to be financed from the proceeds of 
the Micro-Credit shall: (i) be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and 
economy and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Microproject or Microprojects; and
(c)
reserve for SMCP the right to:
(i)
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the Association shall 
so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction included in 
the Microproject or Microprojects, the operations thereof and any 
relevant records and documents;
(ii)
obtain all information as SMCP or the Association shall reasonably 
request 
regarding the administration, operation and financial conditions 
of the Beneficiary; 
and
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of 
the 
Micro-Credit upon the failure by the Beneficiary to perform any 
of its obligations 
under the Micro-Credit Agreement.
Page  28
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, in respect of Special Account I for Parts A 
through C of the Project, Categories (2), (3), (4)(a), (5) and (7)(a) as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in respect of Special Account II for Part D of 
the Project, Categories (4)(b), (6) and (7)(b) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 in 
respect of  Special Account I for Parts, A, B, and C of the Project; and to $1,000,000 in respect 
of Special Account II for Part D of the Project, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the respective Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; 
provided, however that:
(i)
in respect of Special Account I, for Parts A, B, and C of the Project, 
unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to 
US$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000; and
(ii)
  in respect of Special Account II for Part D of the Project, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to US$500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal 
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  29
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the respective 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the  respective Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the respective Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
Page  30
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the respective  Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in anySpecial Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said indicators 
being subject to modifications /by agreement between the Borrower and the Association:
A.
Demobilization
Page  31
1.
60,000 soldiers demobilized by December 31, 2003. 
2.
All Demobilized Soldiers received HIV/AIDS counseling.
3.
Demobilization completed (including provision of identification, medical 
screening and pre-discharge orientation) within 10 days per person.
B.
Reinsertion
4.
Transitional Safety Net (TSN) payments made to all eligible Demobilized 
Soldiers.
C.
Reintegration
5.
Number of Demobilized Soldiers who received economic reintegration 
assistance within one and two years of demobilization.
6.
Number of disabled Demobilized Soldiers who have received medical 
rehabilitation support within 6 months of discharge.
D.
Savings and Micro-Credit
7.
Number of active Beneficiaries.
8.
Repayment Rate for Micro-Credits and Portfolio yield calculated as income 
divided by the average outstanding Micro-Credits.
