Report No. PID5953
Project Name                     Turkey-Commodities Market Development ...
Project (Learning and Innovation Loan)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector:                          Agriculture
Project ID                       TRPE48851
Borrower                         Treasury
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Industry and Trade
Mr. Naci Sulkalar
General Director of Domestic Trade
Telephone:       90 - 312 - 284.2863
Fax:             90 -  312 - 284.2865
Date this PID prepared           1/24/1998
Projected appraisal date         2/23/1998
Projected Board date             5/18/1998
Country and Sector Background
Most observers agree that Turkey has tremendous potential for rural
growth, but this has gone largely unrealized. In the 20-year period
1975-96, while overall GNP was growing at around 3.4 percent per
year, agriculture grew at a rate of about a third that figure. As a
result, the sector shrank as a share of the whole economy from 36
percent to 15 percent over that period. The importance of rural
development is amplified by the relative poverty of the sector as a
whole and the fact that many of the poorest live in rural areas.
Project Objectives
The objective is to (a) increase the marketing efficiency of grains
and cotton through selected commodities exchanges by introducing
improved systems of price discovery, dematerialized trade, and
regulatory oversight; and (b) demonstrate the benefits resulting
from increased private commodity marketing.
Project Description
The following three components would be implemented under the
project financed under a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL): (a)
investment support to a modernization program for selected
exchanges; (b) strengthening of regulatory institutions; and (c)
monitoring and evaluation.
Investment support to exchanges would be provided by facilitating
the financing of a range ('menu') of investments on a cost recovery
basis ranging from installation of electronic communication network,
over laboratory equipment to monitor the use of new quality
standards, to limited investments in civil work for warehouses (if
justified); and training and technical assistance to acquire the



skills and knowledge to operate, and benefit from, systems of
improved price discovery and dematerialized trade. The decision on
the part of selected exchanges (i.e. Izmir, Adana, Stanliurfa,
Polatli, Konya, Eskishir, and Edirne) to borrow under the project
for these investments is, of course, voluntary based on the choice
of investments provided within a framework or 'menu' of investments.
The investments supported under the project should enhance the
business opportunities of the exchanges and allow them to provide
enhanced services in the future.
Strengthening of the regulatory institutions would consist of
training and technical assistance to (a) introduce uniform,
internationally compatible quality standards for cotton and grains;
(b) design and initiate the implementation of a warehouse receipt
system; (c) improve market surveillance and supervision of commodity
exchanges; and (d) assist in the establishment of a communication
network linking commodity exchanges; (e) increase the general
awareness of the opportunities and limits of exchange-based
marketing; and (f) the establishment of a small PIU.
The development of new quality standards acceptable to the industry;
the introduction of a warehouse receipt system acceptable by the
private sector; and the development of a meaningful electronic
network will require a broad and systematic consultation process of
all relevant private and public participants. A task force approach
has been suggested that would bring together the interests of the
various stakeholders. Managing this process will require leadership
skills within Turkey as well as considerable international
expertise, both of which would be mobilized under the project.
Monitoring and evaluation of project implementation and impact will
be essential to learn the lessons critical for further market
development and policy reform. It would also contribute to the on-
going sector dialogue between the Government and the Bank.
Monitoring activities would cover for instance (a) baseline and ex-
post survey of major existing users of exchange services, including
indicators of increased usage and improved efficiency of operation
at the level of the exchanges; and (b) monitoring of market
integration amongst participating exchanges and between
participating and non-participating exchanges. While the
responsibility for these activities would be with the MIT, it is
suggested that these monitoring functions be outsourced to
university departments, consulting firms, or other qualified institutions.
Project Financing
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                      Local          Foreign         Total
Government                   0.7                 0           0.7
Participating Exchanges      1.3              1.0            2.3
IBRD (*)                       0              4.0            4.0
Total                        2.0              5.0            7.0
(*) under a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)
- 2 -



Project Implementation
Overall responsibility for implementation lies with the Ministry of
Industry and Trade.
The investment support component would be implemented as follows:
the Bank's loan would be provided to Turkey through Treasury who
would onlend funds to exchanges through an intermediary, yet to be
determined.
The strengthening of the regulatory institutions component would be
implemented under the initiative of MIT and the PIU; the development
of new grain and cotton standards, as well as the development of the
warehouse receipt system will require the presence of some long term
TA; electronic networking would be implemented with the support of
TOBB which currently operates a commodity information databank.
The monitoring and evaluation component: the responsibility for
these activities would be with the MIT; however, it is likely that
these monitoring functions be outsourced to university departments,
consulting firms, or other qualified institutions.
Poverty Category
This project do not fall under any explicit poverty category.
Environmental Aspects
The environmental category is yet to be determined. As no
environmental impact is anticipated - neither negative nor positive
- a category "C" rating is anticipated.
Program Objective Categories
Economic Management
Contact Point:           Severin Kodderitzsch, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H-Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-2164
Fax: (202) 522-1164
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Cetain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 30, 1998.
- 3 -



