Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17585-TU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
COMMODITIES MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 22, 1998
Sector Departnent Rural Development and Environment
Country Department for Turkey and Macedonia
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 14, 1998)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
TL 1000 = US$0.0038
US$1.00   TL261,050
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASCU                 Agriculture Sales Cooperatives Unions
CBOT                 Chicago Board of Trade
CMDP                 Commodities Market Development Project
CFTC                 Conmmodity Futures Trading Commission
FAO                  Food and Agriculture Organization
GOT                  Govermnent of the Republic of Turkey
ICE                  Izmir Commodity Exchange
LIL                  Learning and Innovation Loan
MARA                 Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
MIT                  Ministry of Industry and Trade
PAT                  Project Administration Team (under TOBB)
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit (under MIT)
SA                   Special Account
SEE                  State Economic Enterprises
SPO                  State Planning Organization
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
TMO                  Turkish Grain Board
TOBB                 Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Maritime Conmmerce and
Commodity Exchanges of Turkey
USDA                 US Departnent of Agriculture
Vice President  :Johannes F. Linn  
Country Manager/Director: Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager/Director :Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team LeaderJTask Manager :Severin Kodderitzsch



Republic Of Turkey
Commodities Market Development Project
Learning and Innovation Loan
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ........................................................... 2
1. Sector background
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context ..........................................................3
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Govermnent strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary ........................................................... 6
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale                ............................................... 12
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitmnent and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analysis ......................................     .................... 15
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks .................................   ..........................   17
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects



CONTENTS (cont'd)
G. Main Loan Conditions .......................                    O        18
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation ......................                     -19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .19
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary                                         20
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description                                   22
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs                                        24
Annex 4.     Financial Summary                                              25
Annex 5.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                      26
Table A    Procurement Arrangements, Consultant Selection Arrangements;
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table B    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 6.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule                         32
Annex 7.     Documents in Project File                                      33
Annex 8.      Statement of Loans and Credits                                34
Annex 9.      Country at a Glance                                           37
Annex 10.    Environmental Data Sheet                                       39
Annex 11.    Draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement                                41



Republic of Turkey
Commodities Market Development Project
Learning and Innovation Loan
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Country Department for Turkey and Macedonia
Rural Development and Environment
Date: June 22, 1998                                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Severin Kodderitzsch
Country Manager/Director: Ajay Chhibber             Sector Manager/Director: Kevin Cleaver
Project ID: 48851      Sector: Agriculture          Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan    Program of Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data              [XI Loan        [] Credit       [  Guarantee      [I Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): 4.0 million
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency     [X1 Single currency, specify: US Dollar
Grace period (years):    3 years    []   Standard Variable  [XI Fixed        [     LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:  12 - 15 years
Commitment fee:    0.75 %
Service charge:   N/A
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                                 0.4                 0               0.4
Participating Exchanges                                    1.3                 0               1.3
IBRD                                                        0                 4.0              4.0
Total        1.7                4.0              5.7
Borrower: Republic of Turkey, Treasury
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies):
Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT), Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Maritime
Commerce and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey (TOBB), participating Commodity Exchanges
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999       2000       2001
Annual    1.2         1.7        1.1
Cumulative    1.2        2.9         4.0
Project implementation period: 2 1/2 year  Expected effectiveness date: 9/30/98    Expected closing date: 3/31/01
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Sector background
Most observers agree that Turkey has tremendous potential for rural growth, but this has gone largely
unrealized. In the 20-year period 1975-96, while overall GNP was growing at around 3.4 percent per
year, agriculture grew at a rate of about a third that figure. As a result, the sector shrank as a share of the
whole economy from 36 percent to 15 percent over that period. The importance of rural development is
amplified by the relative poverty of the sector as a whole and the fact that many of the poorest live in
rural areas.
Development of rural areas and agriculture in particular has been impeded by heavy government
intervention in the sector. While not all government initiatives have been counterproductive, many have.
Trade controls, government procurement, heavy government involvement in marketing, and input
subsidies (especially credit and fertilizer) have had many negative effects on the sector and the economy
at large. They have discouraged production of products in which Turkey has a comparative advantage,
squeezed out private sector marketers, and encouraged inefficient production technologies. The benefits
of the subsidies have gone mainly to larger, wealthier farmers. In addition, the subsidies have serious
fiscal effects. Some of these policies also create barriers to Turkey's closer integration with the EU.
While previous governments have recognized some of the problems created by these policies, reform has
proven difficult. Earlier plans to move away from the current system of price support were never
implemented, except for some livestock products, cotton, and tobacco. Even for these products, domestic
prices continue to be supported, but not by direct purchases. Significant public procurement by State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs) continues for the most important crops. One of the reasons for the
unwillingness of governments to disengage from direct price support through public procurement is the
perception that the private sector is not able to adequately fill this role. This perception is enhanced by the
underdeveloped state of the commodity exchanges. Commodities exchanges are a key element in the
marketing system in Turkey: some 90 commodities exchanges covering a broad range of commodities
provide trading services. In most cases these consist of basic assembly markets; while a minority of
commodity exchanges provide more sophisticated services. While only an estimated 10 percent of all
grains are in aggregate traded through commodities exchanges, at the regional level within thecatchment
area of individual commodities exchanges, trade can be significant (over 50 percent of regional grain
trade), while overall, private trade off exchanges dominates.
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The overall strategic objective of developing commodity-based marketing infrastructure (including but
not limited to exchanges) is to increase the marketing efficiency of two major agricultural commodities -
cotton and grains - by assisting Government in disengaging from a broad scope of intervention policy,
and in supporting the private sector in taking on the full spectrum of marketing functions for these
commodities. The objective of the CMDP (LIL) is to support the transition from an intervention-based
agriculture policy to a liberal market; and to demonstrate the benefits resulting from increased private
commodity marketing through modernizing selected commodity exchanges resulting in improved price
discovery, introduction of dematerialized trade; an improved regulatory and institutional framework; and
a better definition of the public / private sector interface. Subject to progress made on the agriculture
policy agenda and to satisfactory implementation of this operation, the Bank could envisage to support
the implementation of a follow-up operation aiming at modernizing commodity marketing possibly on a
substantially larger scale.
The project development objective is to (a) increase the marketing efficiency of grains and cotton through
selected commodities exchanges by introducing improved systems of price discovery, dematerialized
trade, and regulatory oversight; (b) demonstrate the benefits resulting from increased private commodity



Page 3
marketing; and (c) provide a model for development of other private exchanges, and impetus for
government to withdraw from its intervention in the marketing of other commodities
Key performance indicators. Project performance will be measured at three levels: (a) for trade taking
place at exchanges participating under this project; (b) for off-exchange trade taking place within the
catchment area of participating exchanges; and (c) in terms of market integration and price convergence
between participating exchanges. A baseline study will be undertaken during the first months of project
implementation. Key performance indicators will be tracked throughout the implementation period and
results presented in three annual reports: the baseline survey in late 1998, a mid-term report in late 1999
and a final report in late 2000.
(a) Performance indicators for trade taking place at participating exchanges: one important justification
for supporting investments by the exchanges is that they will become more attractive to farmers, traders,
brokers and the processing industry. Hence, volume traded at the exchanges will be monitored in both
absolute terms as well as the relative share of regional production and trading channeled through
participating exchanges. Monitoring of laboratory usage and warehouses at the exchanges, will also be
important indicators for the project. Another quantitative indicator will be the development of the
financial position of participating exchanges. Finally, an annual customer survey, covering farmers,
traders and industry users will be carried out; perception of improved contract performance will be one
important element covered under the customer survey.
(b) Performance indicators for off-exchange trade taking place within the catchment area ofparticipating
exchanges: increased trading efficiency will also be generated through improved price discovery
generated at the exchanges which will be used by market participants in off-exchange transactions. The
scope and relevance of improved price discovery off-the-exchange will be assessed under the annual
customer survey which would include non-exchange participants.
(c) Performance indicators in terms of market integration and price convergence between participating
exchanges: based on daily price and trade data, econometric work will be carried out to evaluate the
extent that linkages between exchanges and the dissemination of market information has improved
arbitrage and contributed to narrowing of price disparities. Changes in marketing margins would also be
evaluated.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16992   Date of latest CAS discussion: September 4, 1997
The CAS stresses the following areas of focus, related to the assistance priority area of economic
management: 1) privatization and closure of state-owned enterprises; 2) restoring financial viability to
the social security system; 3) reducing fiscal cost and distortionary impact of agricultural subsidies; 4)
improving public financial management; and 5) strengthening the banking system.
The central theme identified for Bank assistance for agriculture is related to the objective of poverty
reduction and social development: to help raise the productivity, incomes, and living standards of small
farmers in poorer regions. The Commodities Market Development Project is an explicitly mentioned
element of the Bank's strategy in support of the rural sector (though not under its current design as a
LIL).
Given previous set-backs and difficulty in carrying out major reforms in the context of lending
operations, the current Bank strategy in the agricultural sector is a two-track approach: 1) continue



Page 4
lending only to small operations (such as the Commodities Market Development Project) with direct impact
on rural poverty and subsectors where the policy framework is sufficiently supportive; and 2) carry out
technical and advisory work to demonstrate the costs of the counterproductive policies and to help the
Govemrnment find acceptable alternatives.
This project would directly support CAS goals (1) and (3) above, and would contribute to raising incomes
of small farmers trading within the catchment area of participating commodity exchanges. The project
would enhance the development of private market alternatives to state procurement agents (e.g., TMO and
the ASCUs). Government procurement has had the goals of supporting farmers' incomes and providing
them with stable prices and reliable sales outlets in the perceived absence of private sector alternatives. By
demonstrating the viability of a private sector approach to marketing and helping develop market
institutions (both in the private sector and the public domain) that will have the effect of providing more
predictable prices, the project would allow the government to disengage from its direct role in procurement.
In parallel, the Bank's technical and advisory work on agricultural support services is suggesting more
efficient alternatives to provide income support, such as targeted income transfer. The project would
increase competition and efficiency in commodity markets, and the consequent reduced margins and
increased liquidity would help farmers get higher prices for their products.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues. By world standards, Turkey is a major producer of grains and cotton. In terms of
grains, Turkey is the eleventh largest producer in the world and in cotton, Turkey accounts for 3% of the
world's output which ranks it as the sixth largest producer. Cotton and cereals are Turkey's most
important crops. Wheat, barley and maize account for some 16%, 5.4% and 2% of the value of all crops in
Turkey. Wheat is grown in over 50 of Turkey's 73 provinces. The three largest wheat provinces which
produce more than one million tons are Konya in Central Anatolia, Ankara in Central North Region
(including Polatli and Eskisehir) and Adana in the Mediterranean Region. Turkey is both an importer and
an exporter of wheat and barley and a net importer of maize.
Cotton production has been increasing in Turkey since the early 1980s and it is likely to expand furither
under the Eastem Anatolia Irrigation (GAP) Project. By 2010 production from this area is projected to
increase the total Turkish production by over 80%. GAP will shift cotton production eastward. Cotton is
grown in two main regions. Cukurova and South-Eastem Anatolia (includes Adana and Sanliurfa) produce
50% of the national output and the Aegean region produces about 46%. Turkey has a large domestic
textile and ready-made garments industry.
There are several alternatives in grain marketing. Farmers can sell directy to mills and to traders or use
the exchanges. In addition, TMO makes direct purchases from farmers. Traders act both on their own
account or as agents of millers. There is usually a degree of competition in the grain market. In cotton,
cooperatives play a role in purchasing cotton from the farmers in addition to traders and direct purchases
by private ginners. Unlike grains, cotton is sold at exchanges as a processed product, lint.
Commodity exchanges play a role in grain and cotton marketing. There are about 19 exchanges engaged in
trading in wheat but only four of them account for most of the trades. These are located in Edime,
Eskisehir, Konya and Polatli. Edirne, Eskisehir and Polatli trade about 200,000 tons of wheat annually,
while Konya trades close to 400,000 tons. Approximately 10% of the total grain production is traded at
exchanges. However, in the immediate regions around exchanges, up to 50% of the grain produced is
traded through these exchanges. An inportant drawback for using the exchanges is that the grain needs to
physically move in order to be traded. Some exchanges use branch offices in order to capture a larger area.
This is mainly because the existing system of standards/grading does not provide adequate quality
information to trade commodities without physical inspection at the trading floor. In cotton, there is a very
active trading in lint. About 45-50% of the national lint production is traded at exchanges. The



Page 5
main exchange in cotton is located in Izmir. Adana and Sanliurfa are the other cotton exchanges. Given
the increase of cotton production from the GAP project, the importance of the Sanliurfa exchange in
cotton trading will likely increase significantly.
Agriculture price policy. Turkey has a long history of government intervention in the domestic markets
for agricultural commodities. This intervention has aimed to support and stabilize farm incomes by
raising producer prices and lowering price volatility within but also between crop years. Domestic
producer prices have been supported through two main mechanisms, government support purchasing and
border protection. Support procurement is implemented through two types of intervention agencies: state
economic enterprises (SEEs) and agriculture sector cooperative unions (ASCUs). The main SEE
involved in grains is TMO, while TARIS is the ASCU involved in cotton marketing in the Aegean region.
The price support levels are set by the Council of Ministers. The government provides the intervention
agencies with financing, and losses due to support procurement are met by the Treasury. These losses
rose significantly during the 1990s. As the Government moves towards direct income support for
producers as part of the package of refonrs in agricultural support policies, the rationale for the existence
of SEEs will cease to exist and these enterprises need to be privatized or liquidated. ASCUs on the other
hand, could maintain a role in commodity marketing but should be autonomous and operate under a
"hard" budget.
Government Strategy. Thus, the inefficiencies and the high cost of government intervention have led the
government to signal its intentions to move away from price support. For the government to be able to
abandon its intervention in commodity marketing there is a need to enhance existing private sector
channels for marketing commodities. Commodity exchanges provide for such viable channels. In the
context of reduced government intervention, the govermnent needs to create an enabling environment for
the private sector to operate. Thus, there is a need for the government to develop adequate capacity to
supervise the markets and provide the necessary legal and regulatory framework within which
commodity markets should operate.
The Government of Turkey is considering the development of commodity exchanges as an important
element in its strategy towards reducing its intervention policies in agriculture. In parallel, GOT is
reviewing its agriculture support policies with assistance of the Bank. In preparation of more far-reaching
reforms, GOT is gradually reducing public involvement in agriculture marketing and price support; for
instance, a law making the ASCUs fully autonomous commercial entities has been drafted and sent to
Parliament for review. This would remove the Govemnment's role in the markets in which the ASCUs
have been the main implementation agencies for intervention, including cotton.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Commodity exchanges serve the function of price discovery, dissemination of price information, and risk
sharing and contribute to a more efficient and transparent commodity marketing system. Reducing
government involvement in commodity marketing will only be achieved if private sector alternatives
(marketing channels) evolve. By strengthening the development of commodity exchanges in Turkey, as
well as promoting activities that would improve the efficiency of private trading (such as warehouse
receipts, quality standards, trade contract enforcement, and regulatory oversight) the project will support
the evolution of such private marketing channels. Through on-going impact evaluation, the project will
provide policy makers in Turkey with a demonstration of improved efficiency of commodity marketing
which should establish a further compelling reason for reduced government involvement in agricultural
marketing. Hence, the project would assist GOT in defining an appropriate role for the public sector in
agricultural marketing, which in essence consists in the provision of a supportive regulatory environment.



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The following three components would be implemented under the project: (a) modernization support to
selected commodity exchanges; (b) development of trading institutions (quality standards/grades for
wheat and cotton, warehouse receipts) and strengthening of MIT's oversight capabilities; and (c) project
impact evaluation.
Final preparation arrangements as well as initial project start-up are being supported under an action
program during the upcoming 6 months funded under a Japanese Grant. This program will carry out the
following activities agreed with MIT: (a) study tour to commodities exchanges in Central Europe; (b)
design common platform at selected exchanges for an information network; (c) finalizing business and
investment plans (d) initiate a consultative process of formulating cotton and grain quality grades; (e)
initiate a consultative process of reviewing and preparing relevant regulations for a functioning
warehouse receipt system; and (f) train the PIU in procurement and disbursement and prepare bidding
documents for TA program under the project.
Modernization Support to Exchanges (estimated component cost: US$4.3 million) would facilitate the
financing of a range of eligible investments on a cost recovery basis at selected exchanges dealing with
grain or cotton. The selected exchanges are located at Adana, Edirne, Eskisehir, Izmir, Konya, Polatli
and Sanliurfa. Eligible investment categories are: (i) training and technical assistance; (ii) goods:
laboratory and information technology equipment, weighbridges, and (iii) civil works for trading floors
and storage facilities (the latter, if adequately justified). Financial support to participating commodity
exchanges is conditional upon presentation by the exchange of a business plan, an investment and
procurement plan as well as financial statements. The investments supported under the project will
enhance the commodity trade related business opportunities of the exchanges and allow them to provide
enhanced services in the future. These investments are anticipated to improve and expand current trading
practices including price discovery and dissemination, allow exchanges to apply newly adopted quality
standards for wheat and cotton, and introduce the use of warehouse receipts. The decision on the part of
selected exchanges to borrow under the project for these investrnents is, of course, voluntary. Eligibility
criteria for financial support will be established in the Implementation Agreement between Treasury and
TOBB (see also Section C.4.)
Development of Trading Institutions and Strengthening of Oversight Capabilities (estimated component
cost: US$0.95 million plus US$0.22 million for operating a PIU) would consist of training and technical
assistance to (a) introduce nationally accepted, and internationally compatible quality grades for wheat
and cotton; (b) revise regulations and initiate the implementation of a warehouse receipt system; (c)
improve market surveillance and supervision of commodity exchanges; and (d) assist in the establishment
of a communication network linking commodity exchanges. A broad and systematic consultation process
of all relevant private and public sector participants will be carried out to ensure relevance of new quality
standards acceptable to the industry; the introduction of a warehouse receipt system acceptable by the
private sector; and the development of a meaningful electronic network. A task force approach has been
agreed upon which would bring together the interests of the various private and public sector
stakeholders. Managing this process will require leadership skills within Turkey as well as considerable
international expertise, both of which would be mobilized under the project. All activities related to this
institutional development are being initiated and launched under a Japanese Grant amounting to US$0.4
million.
Project Impact Evaluation (estimated component cost: US$0.20 million) will be an on-going process
essential to learn the lessons critical for further market development and policy reform. Key performance



Page 7
indicators will be tracked throughout the implementation period and results presented in three annual
reports: the baseline survey in late 1998, a mid-term report in late 1999 and a final report in late 2000. It
would also contribute to the on-going sector dialogue between the Government and the Bank. Evaluation
activities will cover performance indicators related to (a) trade taking place at exchanges participating
under this project (and for selected exchanges not supported under this operation); (b) for off-exchange
trade taking place within the catchment area of participating exchanges; and (c) in terms of market
integration and price convergence between participating exchanges. A baseline study will be undertaken
during the first months of project implementation. Implementation progress - separate from the ongoing
project evaluation - will be monitored by the PIU.
Table 1: Project Components, Cost and World Bank Financing
Component             Category     Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total  Financing    Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)  Financing
Modernization Support to        Private       4.30       76%       3.0       75%
Selected Commodity Exchanges   Sector Dev.
Development of Trading and    Institution     0.95        17%      0.71       18%
Regulatory Institutions        Building
Project Impact Evaluation     Institution     0.20        3%       0.14       3%
Building
PIU                           Implemen-       0.22        4%       0.15       4%
tation  I    _I_I
Total     5.67       100%      4.0       100%
Note: excludes costs andfundingfor activities carried out under Japanese Grant
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policy Reforms. No policy reforms are explicitly expected or made as condition of this project. However,
it is anticipated that this operation would have a catalytic function in supporting the agriculture policy
reform agenda in Turkey. This Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is partly in response to
Government's suggestion of a phased transition in market intervention in which developing and learning
the benefits of exchange-based marketing would be instrumental in supporting the policy reform agenda.
Institutional Reforms. The project would strengthen the regulatory capacities of MIT which has recently
been mandated with overseeing trading on commodity exchanges. In addition, the project would aim at
introducing key institutions for commodities trading such as new quality grades for cotton and grains, the
establishment of a warehouse receipt system, and an electronic network aiming at improved price
discovery.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The project will support the business development of participating exchanges, as well as the
trading community (farmers and traders) associated with the commodities exchanges. By establishing
new quality grades for cotton and wheat, and by establishing the regulatory and institutional framework
for warehouse receipts it will also directly benefit operators of public warehouses, as well as farmers and
banks associated with inventory-based credit.



Page 8
Target Population. The target population consists of commodity traders but also agricultural producers
and related processing industry, and ultimately consumers of cotton and grain based products. Benefits
will accrue both for transactions carried out on as well as off exchanges. Demonstration benefits are
intended for the policy decision community to assess merits and feasibility of further market
liberalization.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall responsibility for project coordination and implementation lies with the Ministry of Industry and
Trade which will establish a small Project Implementation Unit for that purpose. Implementation of
Component I: Modernization Support to Commodities Exchanges will be carried out by participating
commodities exchanges and the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Exchanges (TOBB) through a
small Project Administration Team. Implementation of Component II: Development of Trading
institutions and Strengthening of Oversight Capabilities will be under the responsibility of MIT's PIU.
Finally, implementation of Component III: Project Impact Evaluation will be carried out by an
institution (and under TORs) acceptable to the Bank to be determined by a formal selection procedure.
A Steering Committee with the purpose of providing policy guidance and to monitor project
implementation on a semi-annual basis will be established no later than March 31, 1999 (dated
covenant). This Steering Committee will include representatives from the Undersecretariat of Treasury,
the State Planning Organization, the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Industry and
Trade, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, the Turkish Grain Board, and TOBB.
Component I: Modernization Support to Commodities Exchanges
US$3.0 million out of US$4.0 million under the Learning and Innovation Loan provided by the Bank to
Turkey through Treasury would be made available to selected exchanges through TOBB. The
relationship between Treasury and TOBB would be governed through a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Amongst others, TOBB has agreed (a) to establish a Project Administration Team which will be
responsible for concluding subproject agreements, disbursements, administration of loan repayments and
financial management under this component and (b) to guarantee Treasury loans made to participating
exchanges. The Project Administration Team will consist of one project coordinator, an accountant, and a
procurement specialist.
The exchanges participating under this program would finance eligible investments on credit, based on
business and investment plans (including fnancial statements and a procurement plan). Eligible
investment categories are: (i) training and technical assistance; (ii) goods: laboratory and information
technology equipment, weighbridges, and (iii) civil works for trading floors and storage facilities (the
latter, if adequately justified). Financial support to participating commodity exchanges is conditional
upon presentation by the exchange of a business plan, an investment and procurement plan as well as
financial statements. The investments supported under the project will enhance the commodity trade
related business opportunities of the exchanges and allow them to provide enhanced services in the
future. These investments are anticipated to improve and expand current trading practices including price
discovery and dissemination, allow exchanges to trade on the basis of newly adopted quality standards for
wheat and cotton, and gradually introduce the use of warehouse receipts. Eligibility criteria for financial
support along the lines described above will be reflected in the Implementation Agreement between
Treasury and TOBB.
Disbursement would be made by TOBB to suppliers against presentation of relevant documentation
(suppliers bills etc.) provided by the exchange. TOBB would enter into Subloan Agreements with the
individual exchange; key on-lending conditions to participating commodities exchanges are as follows:



Page 9
Loan Amount: up to US$1.0 million equivalent per exchange with aggregate amount of lending to all
exchanges not to exceed US$3.0 million; maximum loan amount up to 70 percent of investment costs;
minimum of 30 percent to be financed by exchange; Maturity and Grace Period: total Maturity: 8 years;
Grace Period: 2 years; Repayment Period: 6 years; Interest Rate and Payment: US Dollar denominated
loan at a fixed interest rate equivalent to the cost of borrowing to Treasury under the IBRD Fixed-Rate
Single Currency Loan plus 0.5 percent (Treasury Guarantee fee); debt payment (principal and interest) on
quarterly basis; interest payment during grace period on disbursed balance; Additional Provisions:
commitment fee on undisbursed balance: 0.5 percent; and prepayment option: prepayment premium of
1.0 percent of loan balance.
Investment and Financing. During appraisal, commodity exchanges (with the exception of Adana and
Konya) indicated interest in a broad and varied scope of investments to develop their commodity trading
business. The suggested approaches to business development envisaged by the individual exchanges
would result in major improvements of trading practices allowing exchanges in the medium term to
gradually move from cash or spot markets to forward trading. Currently, trading practices are relatively
simple with ample scope for improvement. The investment areas are closely associated with improved
quality standards, warehouse receipts, improved price discovery and dissemination through modem
information technology.
The following areas of investments programs are being considered by exchanges: (a) Edirne ---
inspection laboratory development, development of new site for exchange, capitalizing on area high
quality wheat production, information systems development; (b) Eskisehir --- exchange branch
development, inspection lab improvement, information systems development, training, development of
trade in warehouse receipts; (c) Izmir --- development of cotton warehouse facility, trading in
warehouse receipts through electronic trading system; (d) Polatli --- information systems development,
inspection lab improvement, training for staff and exchange users, development of cash forward
contracts; (e) Sanliurfa --- all facets of exchange development including, but not limited to lab, training,
communications, warehousing. Adana and Konya, both, indicated to currently having no interest in
borrowing under this project; Adana's reluctance is due to a perceived lack of business development
opportunities, while Konya has indicated development plans of a scope (running into several million
dollars to develop forward trading) that cannot be accommodated with the funding provided under this
operation. It has been agreed with Government to maintain these two exchanges on the list of eligible
exchanges allowing them to reconsider their participation during project implementation. The mechanism
for financial support under this component is sufficiently flexible to accommodate for this and reflects the
pilot nature of this operation.
Table 2: Summary Table of Indicative Investments and Financing of Participating Exchanges
Exchange    Total Investment    Loan       Exchange Contribution
Adana                    $0           $0                    $0
Edime               $840,000     $588,000              $252,000
Eskisehir           $820,000     $574,000              $246,000
Izmir               $800,000     $560,000              $240,000
Konya                    $0           $0                    $0
Polatli             $900,000     $630,000              $270,000
Sanliurfa           $850,000     $595,000              $255,000
Total              $4,210,000    $2,947,000           $1,263,000
Table 2 summarizes investment costs as indicated by exchanges in the course of this visit, as
well as anticipated borrowing (around US$3.0 million) on the basis of a 30 percent financing of
investments by the exchanges. Note that this does not necessarily imply a firm commitnent on



Page 10
the part of exchanges to eventually carry out their business plans and to borrow under the project
(in particular, the indications received from the Izmir Commodity Exchange are seen as being
somewhat tentative). Overall, there is currently sufficient demand for funding by the exchanges
to justify support up to US$3.0 million.
Component II: Development of Trading Institutions and Strengthening of Oversight Capabilities
Implementation of Component IT: Development of Trading Institutions and Strengthening of Oversight
Capabilities will be under the responsibility of MIT's PIU. Under this component (estimated cost:
US$950,000) the following areas would be developed and implemented: (a) quality standards for wheat
and cotton; (b) warehouse receipts; and (c) MIT's capacity to oversee commodity exchanges. Activities
will be prepared and initiated under Japanese Grant Funding (see further below).
Quality Standards/Grades for Wheat and Cotton. A consultative process involving relevant private
sector entities and public institutions through Advisory Groups will define quality standards/grades for
wheat and cotton with the technical assistance of international and national expertise, eventually resulting
in the adoption of new standard/grade legislation for these two commodities. The process would be
initiated under the Japanese Grant (US$130,000) and finalized under the project. During project
implementation MIT would establish a Licensing Department for grain and cotton inspectors (through
redeployment of current personnel). The Department and newly licensed inspectors would be provided
with training provided by international expertise (US$22,000).
Warehouse Receipts. Similarly, a consultative process involving relevant private sector entities and
public institutions through Advisory Groups will define regulations required for operating licensed
'public' warehouses and issuing warehouse receipts with the assistance of international and national legal
and technical expertise, eventually resulting in the adoption of operational regulations. The process would
again be initiated under the Japanese Grant (US$53,000) and finalized under the project.
During project implementation MIT would establish and staff (again, through redeployment of current
personnel) a warehouse licensing department for grain and cotton warehouses. The warehouse licensing
inspectors of this new department would be trained in the USA (US$50,000). Training and expertise
would equally be provided to the interested public (insurance and banking industry, commodities
exchanges, flour millers; US$50,000). Two small pilot projects (total cost: US$400,000), one for cotton
in the Aegean and one for grains in Central Anatolia would implement one full cycle with a limited
number of selected warehouses. This cycle would consist of warehouse inspection, licensing, bonding,
warehouse receipt issuing, and credit and trading against warehouse receipts; participating warehousemen
would be trained, for instance, in the USA. Insurance and banking sectors would be involved in these
pilot projects.
MIT's Commodity Exchange Oversight. Under the project, senior staff from MIT would receive
training in exchange oversight in the USA through the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC) and USDA; (US$15,000). The selected exchange inspectors located throughout Turkey as well
as staff of the new Oversight Department (to be established at MIT) would be trained in Turkey with
international expertise (US$50,000).
It was agreed that a full time resident international commodity marketing advisor be recruited under the
project for a period of 12 months during the first year of implementation (estimated cost: US$200,000);
this resident advisor would have broad and applied experience in commodity exchange operations,
warehouse receipt systems, and quality standards. This resident advisor would be located in the PIU but
also be available to MIT. The advisor's function would be to guide exchanges and public institutions (as



Page 1 1
well as incoming technical assistance) on implementation. This advisor should be recruited from a
reputable frm as part of the single TA contract for this component.
Component III: Project Impact Evaluation
Implementation of Component III, Project Impact Evaluation (estimated cost: US$220,000) will be
carried out by an institution and under TORs acceptable to the Bank to be determined by a formal
selection procedure. This agency needs to have staff experienced in commodity marketing both in Turkey
and internationally, with good analytical skills and ability to evaluate the impact of government policies
on the project's progress, as well as to coordinate surveys. Key performance indicators will be tracked
throughout the implementation period and results presented in three annual reports: the baseline survey in
late 1998, a mid-term report in late 1999 and a final report in late 2000. Implementation progress -
separate from the ongoing project evaluation - will be monitored by the PIU.
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and Project Administration Team (PAT)
Project Implementation Unit under MIT. The PIU will be responsible for overall project coordination
including disbursement, procurement, financial management; direct implementation of Component II; and
oversight of Component III. The PIU would consist of a national project manager, an advisory group
coordinator, a procurement specialist, and an accountant. The project advisor should be appointed prior
to Loan negotiations.
MIT intends to recruit staff for the PIU from outside the Ministry in accordance with Government
regulations and based on TORs satisfactory to the Bank. This will result in recurrent costs, part of which
will be financed under the Loan. However, in order to avoid delays in project implementation, (a) the
responsibility and leadership for overall project implementation will remain with MIT; and (b) MIT will
provide a full time liaison person who can maintain communications between MIT senior management
and the PIU.
Project Administration Team under TOBB. Implementation of Component I: Modernization Support
will be carried out by TOBB through a temporary Project Administration Team (PAT), consisting of a
project coordinator, an accountant and a procurement specialist. Establishment of this PAT is a
Condition of Disbursement under Component I: Modernization Support to Exchanges.
Procurement. See Annex 5 for procurement arrangements. Under Component I: Modernization Support
to Exchanges, the individual commodity exchange will be responsible for carrying out procurement with
the guidance of the PAT under TOBB. Given the many smaller TA and training activities foreseen under
Component II: Development of Trading institutions and Strengthening of Oversight Capabilities, it has
been agreed that these would be procured and implemented under a single TA and training contract. This
approach will considerably simplify implementation, in particular with regard to procurement and
contract handling. Preparation of tender documents for this larger TA contract will be prepared under the
Japanese Grant program.
Disbursements. The Loan would be disbursed over a period of around 2 1/2 years. Disbursements would
be made against eligible expenditures according to percentages of expenditures indicated in Annex 5.
Under Component I (Modernization Support to Commodity Exchanges), TOBB would be authorized by
Treasury (i) to disburse from the Special Account (SA) for eligible expenditures below the SOE threshold
under agreed subprojects directly to suppliers; and (ii) for expenditures above the SOE threshold, to
submit payment applications directly to the Bank. Under Component II (Development of Trading and
Regulatory Institutions) and III (Project Impact Evaluation) MIT would have the authority to disburse



Page 12
from the SA, as well as to submit direct payment instructions to the Bank for payments above the SOE
threshold.
A Special Account (SA) would be opened on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The
authorized allocation has been established at US$400,000. This amount can be drawn by submitting the
relevant Application of Withdrawal.
SOEs. All disbursements against contracts exceeding US$1,000,000 equivalent for goods; US$1,500,000
equivalent for works; US$200,000 equivalent for services from frmns and US$50,000 from individual
consultants; and incremental operating costs above US$50,000 equivalent would be fully documented.
For expenditures below that level, disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures for
which detailed documents evidencing expenditures would be kept by the PAT under TOBB and reviewed
by the PIU under MIT for Component I; and the PIJ under MIT for Component II and III; these
documents would be made available for the required audits as well as to the Bank, upon request.
Financial Reporting and Accounting. Overall responsibility for all financial reporting and accounting
would be with MIT through the PIU. The financial reporting would be based on an accounting and
auditing system which would record and retrieve all financial transactions associated with the project and
comply with internationally accepted accounting standards. Financial reporting would include all sources
of funding under the project, i.e. Bank Loan (including the SA), GOT project budget contribution and
fnancing provided by participating exchanges. For Component I: Modernization Support detailed
financial accounts would be maintained at TOBB's Project Administration Team. For Component H and
III MIT's PIU would maintain financial accounts which it would consolidate with those provided by
TOBB for auditing purposes. A financial management system will be established under the PIU no later
than November 30, 1998. The financial management system will be developed with assistance from a
financial management specialist funded under the Japanese Grant.
Audits. Project Accounts (including GOT budget counterpart contributions) and the SA would be audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The Borrower through
MIT will provide the Bank (within six months of the end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such
scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion, by the auditor on
disbursements against certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Project Reporting. The PIU will prepare the following periodic project reports and submit them to the
Bank in a timely fashion: (a) semi-annual project status reports; (b) semi-annual procurement reports; (c)
semi-annual disbursement reports; (d) an annual audit report; (e) an annual report prepared under the
Project Impact Evaluation Component tracking agreed Performance Indicators; and (f) an Implementation
Completion Report six months prior to the Loan closing date.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
This project has gone through a long gestation period. The initial project design prepared by FAO and
MARA in 1994/95 envisaged a large project ($80 million) that would be focused exclusively on
investmnent in hardware for a large number of commodity exchanges (16) and slaughterhouses across a
broad range of commodities (8) - with little or no consideration of the institutional, regulatory, and policy
framework in which commodity exchanges operate.
Subsequent Bank involvement (May 1996) and a FAO/CP preparation mission (September 1996) resulted
in a design with considerably more emphasis on the introduction of institutional and marketing systems,



Page 13
i.e. quality standards, warehouse receipts, and electronic networking as opposed to a focus limited to
physical infrastructure. The number of selected exchanges was reduced to seven and the commodity
coverage limited to grains and cotton. However, the policy framework was judged to be insufficiently
conducive, the implementation arrangements too vague and the participation of selected exchanges
insufficiently assured to recommend appraisal given the size of the project suggested by the FAO team
($56 million). In late 1996, the regulatory authority for commodities exchanges was moved from MARA
to MIT; the latter has since been instrumental in finalizing project design.
In May 1997, a small Bank mission revisited the project, reduced the scope of investments ($10 - 20
million) and clearly outlined the policy pre-conditions for both the cotton and the grain marketing
components. In September 1997 it became clear that GOT could not commit to the policy framework
required for a meaningful implementation of an investment project of such size. GOT's view was, and is,
that the Commodities Market Development Project should assist in aphased transition in public market
intervention in which developing and learning the benefits of exchange-based marketing would be
instrumental in supporting the policy reform agenda in Turkey - without requiring major ex ante policy
reforms.
Adoption by the Board of new lending instruments in September 1997 allowed the Bank to offer to GOT
in November 1997 to process this operation under a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). The
approach taken under the LIL now allows the integration of several objectives on the part of the Borrower
and the Bank. In line with the criteria established for a LIL, (1) project design allows for a smaller
operation that can relatively quickly build up institutional capacities in terms of regulatory requirements
to oversee commodity based trading, introduce new quality grades for cotton and grains, and review
regulations for public warehousing. It will also (2) pilot and test the use of warehouse receipts at a
regional level; as well as introduce electronic networks between a limited number of exchanges, prior to
using these systems on a national level. The proposed project will (3) allow participating exchanges,
regulatory institutions, but in particular policy makers to test the transition from an intervention policy to
a more liberalized framework. (4) The Impact Evaluation Component will ensure that key implementation
and policy lessons can be drawn.
While the policy environment is not considered without risk, (5) the overall policy framework is
sufficiently conducive to support (modest) investment activities proposed under this operation, as
demonstrated by (a) the willingness of the selected exchanges to participate and invest equity; by (b)
CBOT entering in a joint venture-type collaboration with the Izmir Commodity Exchange to develop a
cotton futures contract. The modest size of investments protects now against risk of gross misallocation
of resources, yet allows participating commodities exchanges to (6) pilot promising development efforts.
As exchange-based marketing develops and the policy constraints become increasingly binding on further
business expansion of commodities exchanges and trading, it is anticipated that this project would
contribute to the formation of an increasingly vocal constituency arguing in favor of more market
liberalization.
This operation would support a learning and innovation process at three levels: (a) allowing Government
to test and learn from market-based approaches as alternative to public intervention in commodity
marketing with the aim to reduce policy interventions for grains and cotton, but also for other
commodities; (b) to develop new quality standards for wheat and cotton and develop a warehouse receipt
system through joint private and public sector collaboration; and (c) to demonstrate the scope for
efficiency gains in commodity trading through modernizing the operations (price discovery and
dissemination, introduction of new quality standards and use of warehouse receipts) of seven selected
commodities exchanges amongst some ninety exchanges in Turkey.



Page 14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
No Bank or other development financed project relates to this operation. The Chicago Board of Trade
(CBOT) is currently implementing a cooperation agreement with the Izmir Commodity Exchange (ICE) to
strengthen ICE's trading operations in view of the upcoming introduction of a cotton futures contract.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The warehouse receipt component draws on the lessons learned from the limited Bank involvement in the
introduction of such documents under a USAID supported pilot project in Poland.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower, through Treasury and in particular MIT, is committed to the objectives, project design and
implementation arrangements. GOT, through SPO, has committed to providing the required budget
resources for this project, starting in 1999. Five out of the seven selected comrnodities exchanges are
equally committed in terms of modernizing their operations under this project (and to contribute from their
equity to the investments). Private sector entities are welcoming and willing to support the opportunity to
revising quality standards and regulations for public warehousing under a consultative process. The
Borrower considers this operation to be small in terms of the assumed investment needs at the level of the
exchanges, yet is committed to carrying out the institutional development activities as well as supporting
the exchange modernization program. Both Treasury and MIT have repeatedly made clear that GOT could
envisage a second, larger follow-up operation subsequent to implementation of the LIL.
T he Borrower presented the Bank with a request for a commodities market development project as early as
1993. Turkish authorities have collaborated with several missions over the years. Relevant regulatory
changes have been introduced in 1996 and 1997 (such as assigning MIT as oversight body).
S. Value added of Bank support in this project:
In a first instance, the Bank has been instrumental in refocusing project design and the development of
commodity marketing from an exclusively hardware investment orientation to a more institution and market
systems based approach, stressing the importance of price discovery and information, reduction of
transaction costs through improved quality grades, public warehousing and contract enforcement. In
addition, the Bank has highlighted the interaction between (a) investments in market infrastructure and
systems and (b) the policy environment in which trading takes place. While this project directly supports
the former aspect, it is an integral part of an overall agriculture policy reform strategy in Turkey supported
by the Bank
Secondly, the Bank has been instrumental in assisting with the design of an operational approach that
ensures close collaboration between private sector entities and public sector institutions. The development
of new trading grades and warehousing regulations can only be established in a meaningful way through
joint pnvate and public sector collaboration and investments. Throughout project implementation, the Bank
will continue to assist with maintaining an appropriate integration and balance between the need for private
sector development and public sector policy and regulations.
Thirdly the Bank, through its numerous international public (UNCTAD, FAO, ICC, IFTC, USDA) and
private contacts (CBOT and other exchanges, specialized consulting finns), has and will continue to
provide Turkey under this operation with exposure to international developments, technical expertise and
training in the field of commodity marketing. For instance, the Bank brokered a working relationship
between the Izmir Conmmodity Exchange and the CBOT that has become instrumental for the



Page 15
development of a cotton futures contract anticipated to be launched in the near future (the first commodity
futures contract in Turkey).
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic:
Because of the nature of the LIL, including its size and emphasis on testing and innovation, the monetary
benefits have not been analyzed in the comprehensive way normally associated with more traditional Bank
investment projects. The main economic benefit consists in improvements to the efficiency of trading
commodities, in particular grains and cotton, in Turkey and enhanced private sector alternatives to
government involvement in these markets. The key economic benefits are related to (a) market information,
(b) quality standards/grades, (c) warehouse receipts (dematerialization of trade), and (d) improved trade
practices. Overall a reduction in transaction costs in cotton and grain trading would be a main benefit.
Increased accessibility to relevant market information will enhance opportunities for arbitrage amnong
exchanges/regions which will lead to higher volume of trade and more competition. Market information will
also contribute to higher transparency in the market which will increase attractiveness to trade at the
exchanges. Overall competition in the market both on and off the exchanges will be enhanced; resulting,
inter alia, in reduced marketing margins.
Defning nationally accepted and internationally compatible quality grades will (a) enhance overall quality
in grains and cotton; and (b) allow for better determination of quality premium in the system which will
improve the transmission of signals related to price-quality to farmers, traders and processors.
Dematerialization of trade through warehouse receipts will provide credit using inventories as collateral by
reducing the risk in inventory lending. It will also allow farmers to store and sell later, as long as incentives
provided for price seasonality are adequate. By ensuring storage under improved conditions in licensed
warehouses, lower post-harvest losses are anticipated. Through de-materialization of trade the efficiency of
transactions could improve. In addition, warehouse receipts provide for an efficient system of physical
delivery in the futures markets.
Improved trading practices (including contract enforcement, arbitration) will allow for more efficient
execution of transactions and reduce transaction risks and costs in trading grains and cotton.
2. Financial
Since the LWL is effectively a pilot, the project will test a variety of investment approaches to developing
commodities exchanges and experimenting with potentially profitable income-generating activities.
Indicative draft business and investment plans prepared by some of the participating exchanges show
positive returns on investments ranging from 17 and 44 percent, as well as the ability of exchanges to repay
advances on the basis of conditions outlined above. All participating exchanges will be required to develop
and finalize formal business and investment plans (including financial statements) in order to qualify for
support under the project.
Fiscal impact:
In a first round overall project impact should be fiscally neutral: GOT budget contributions to the project
(US$0.4 million) are off-set by indirect tax revenues associated with the investments at the level of the
exchanges. Exchanges becoming more profitable provide a larger income tax base, as well as increased
trade registration fees.



Page 16
3. Technical:
Participating exchanges as well as regulatory agencies will receive training in technical areas associated
with new quality standards, warehouse receipts, and the installation and operation of electronic networks.
Technical aspects (quality standards, electronic networks) will be further prepared under a Japanese
Grant prior to project effectiveness.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: MIT is the main executing agency; while relatively inexperienced in
implementing Bank procedures, it is anticipated that MIT will become well acquainted in the course of
preparation work carried out under a Japanese Grant.
b. Project management: A small PITJ would be established (consisting of one professional and an
administrative assistant) to carry out project coordination and procurement. The intermediary will be
responsible for allocating project resources to exchanges as well as administrating repayment by
exchanges.
5. Social:
See 7. Participatory Approach (below).
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category  []A   [ X] B  [] C
No major environmental issues are anticipated under this project. Warehouse receipts will generate
environmental benefits by reducing road transport of commodities. Should exchanges choose to invest in
the construction of warehouses (i.e. civil works) adequate safety measures regarding fire hazard, traffic,
and rodent and pest control need to be ensured. Exchanges will be required to comply with Turkish laws
and regulations pertaining to environmental review and the construction code for commodity warehouses
to ensure adequate control of fire hazard, traffic control and fumigant applied for rodent control. Turkish
regulations are deemed adequate in light of the limited scope of anticipated investments in civil works
under this project.
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: Throughout the preparation and in particular the
appraisal process the management of the exchanges have been consulted with regard to their future
business and investments plans, participation under the modernization support component as well as their
involvement in the consultative process for developing new quality grades/standards and warehouse
receipts. Their views and comments (including those of member-traders as well as farmers transacting at
the exchanges) have influenced project design and scope. In addition, the management of commodities
exchanges have been actively involved in the preparation of draft business and investment plans. During
appraisal, representatives from commodities exchanges and other private sector entities, as well as from a
range of public sector institutions, attended a workshop on project design and implementation together
with MIT and TOBB.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Numerous representatives from Government agencies, including Treasury, MIT, MARA, the Turkish
Standards Institute but also TOBB have been consulted and have actively participated in designing the
project.



Page 17
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Given the limited size for overall investments, in particular at the level of the exchanges no major issues
regarding sustainability of this project is anticipated at the operational level. However, sustainability of
project impact will be a function of GOT willingness to reform and liberalize agriculture support policies.
In order to ensure sustainability, this project is part of a broader strategy aiming at supporting agriculture
policy reform, through sector dialogue and possibly an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Operation.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Purpose"
MIT to develop exchange oversight             S       TA and training provided for staff
department; and to establish Grades Inspection        development. Dated covenant for
Department as well as Warehouse Licensing             staffing respective departments
and Inspection Department                             within through staff redeployment
Annex 1, cell 'from Activities to Outputs"
Signing of Implementation Agreement between   M       Condition of Effectiveness
Treasury and TOBB
Signing of Subproject Agreements between      M       Preparation of Business Plans w/
TOBB and Participating Exchanges                      TA provided under Japanese Grant
Technical Assistance contracted under         M       Single TA contract for Component
Component II and III                                  II will be prepared under Japanese
Grant
TA contract for Component III to
be contracted as Condition of
Effectiveness
GOT to provide counterpart funds              S       GOT commitment (reaffirmed
during negotiations) to provide
counterpart funding starting CY99.
Component I (75% project cost)
does not require budget funding
Limited funding provided under
Selected Exchanges will Borrow under Project  S       LIL to support relatively small
investment programs at level of
individual exchanges. Strong
interest expressed by most
exchanges during Appraisal. Study
tour to Central Europe and
assistance to prepare business plans
under Japanese Grant.



Page 18
Launching of consultative process
Consultative process for (a) new trading grades  S      prior to Effectiveness with TA
(cotton and wheat), and (b) review and adoption        provided under Japanese Grant
of new warehouse receipt regulations
Establishment of PIU as Condition
M1T and TOBB Implementation Capacity           S       of Effectiveness and of PAT as
Disbursement Condition. Training
and preparation of procurement
packages under Japanese Grant.
Appointment of Project Manager
prior to Negotiations
Overall Risk Rating    S        LIL approach
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No controversial aspects are currently anticipated.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Treasury and TOBB will have signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (which would also reflect the final
standardized Subloan Agreement to be used during implementation) satisfactory to the Bank.
MIT will have contracted, established and staffed the PIU with individuals of adequate experience and
qualifications.
MIT will have entered into an agreement with an agency to carry out the project impact evaluation,
satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other /classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
Condition of Disbursement (Component I: Modernization Support to Selected Exchanges): TOBB will
have established an operating project administration unit.
Dated Covenant:
A Steering Committee to provide guidance on policy and implementation will be established by March 31,
1999.
MIT will establish and staff with a sufficient number of personnel with adequate education and training the
following departments: (a) Exchange Oversight; (b) Quality Grades Inspection; and (c) Warehouse
Licensing and Inspection by October 31, 1999.
The Borrower will provide a mid-term report by October 31, 1999 and carry out a project mid-term review
jointly with the Bank by December 31, 1999.



Page 19
H. Readiness for Implementation
[N/A ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[ ] The procurement documents for the fIrst year's of activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ X] A draft Project Implementation Plan has been prepared and will be finalized using TA under the
Japanese Grant.
I.     Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
'Y.D
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Severin Kodderitzsch
Sector M    rDirector: Kevi Cleaver
Country Manager/Director: Ajay Chhibber



20
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Logical Framework
Narrative Summary   Verifiable Indicators    Means of Verification    Important Assumptions
Goal:                                                                 (Goal to Supergoal):
Nationwide         1. Private sector leasing   1.1. Market prices of
commodity          warehouses             selected commodities
marketing                                  closely linked to world
dominated by                               prices
private sector and
strongly reduced    2. TMO buying only    2.1. Annually determined
goverrunent        strategic stocks        official strategic stock
intervention                               levels.
3. Integration of smaller  3.1. Branch agreements
exchanges to developed    between small and large
ones                    exchanges
4. ACSUs financially    4.1. Audited financial
viable.                 reports of ACSUs.
Purpose:                                                              (Purpose to Goal)
Selected exchanges  1. Increased volume of   1.1. Annual reports under   1. Project demonstrates
trading targeted   trade of 20% by end     Project Impact Evaluation   viability of alternative
commodities        CY2000 in the targeted    component              marketing mechanisms to
operating          commodities at                                   government purchases
efficiently under    participating exchanges
regulated          at transparent and
conditions        realistic, market
determined prices
2. Exchange generated   2.1. Survey farmers and  2. GOT reduces scope of
prices used regionally for  traders dealing off the  commodity price supports
trade off the exchange  exchange
3. All B/S and         3.1. Customer Trust       3. Exchanges repay
warehouse receipt-based   surveys (traders and   individual loans
contracts enforced     farmers)
4. Increased market    4.1. Econometric analysis
integration in the target   of data generated at the
commodities (interactive   selected exchanges
price change effects)



21
Narrative Summary          Verifiable Indicators  Means of Verification   Important Assumptions
Outputs:                                                               (Output to Purpose):
1. Exchanges modernized:    1.1. Information    1.1.1. Exchanges are    1. MIT to develop oversight
equipped, staff developed  network system is    able to share real time   department, and to establish
and facilities rehabilitated  operational by     and on-line price     grades inspection department
CY1999               development and        as well as public warehouse
trading information   licensing and inspection
department
2. MIT regulatory system   2.1. Number of       2.1.1. Trained staff at
established, upgraded, e.g.    transactions at   MIT certify warehouses
trading standards, warehouse  exchanges increased    and laboratories in
regulations, MIT exchange    by 25% by end       accordance with new
oversight                  CY2000                regulations
Activities:                Input:                                      (Activity to Output):
1.1. Design of information    Exchanges         1.1.1. Advisory groups   1. Implementation Agreement
and networking systems and   contribution        established to develop    signed between MIT and
laboratories at selected   US$1.3 M equivalent   wheat and cotton      TOBB
exchanges                                       standards and
World Bank credits    warehousing licensing   Subproject agreements signed
Development of grading and   US$4.0 M equivalent   system              between TOBB and selected
standards for cotton and                                               exchanges
wheat                      GOT contribution
US$0.4 M equivalent                         2. Technical assistance and
Development of legislative                                             training is contracted
mechanisms to enforce                                                  (Component II)
standards
3 Project impact evaluation
Design and development of a                                            agency is contracted
WHR system                                                             (Component III)
2.1. Conduct pilot WEIR                         2.1.1 Surveys on       4. GOT provides counterpart
processing cycle in two                          farmer and trader     TUL funds on time
selected regions for cotton                     assessment of exchange
and wheat                                       performance            Selected Exchanges will
borrow under project
2.2. Design, procure and                        Baseline surveys at
install information                              selected exchanges'   Consultative process
technology systems and                           catchment areas.      established for (i) new trading
laboratories at selected                                               grades and (ii) review and
exchanges                                       2.2.1. Business and    adoption of warehouse receipt
investment plans of   regulations
selected exchanges
finalized and approved
Disbursement and
procurement records at
MIT, TOBB and
exchanges



22
Annex 2
Commodity Market Development
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Modernization Support to Commodities Exchanges
US$4.3 million (total cost of component)
This component would facilitate the financing of a range of eligible investmnents on a cost recovery basis
at selected exchanges dealing with grain or cotton. The selected exchanges are located atAdana, Edirne,
Eskisehir, Izmir, Konya, Polatli and Sanliurfa. Eligible investment categories are: (i) training and
technical assistance; (ii) goods: laboratory and information technology equipment,weighbridges, and (iii)
civil works for trading floors and storage facilities (the latter, if adequately justified). The decision on the
part of selected exchanges to borrow under the project for these investments is, of course, voluntary
based. The investments supported under the project should enhance the business opportunities of the
exchanges and allow them to provide enhanced services in the future.
US$3.0 million out of US$4.0 million under the Learning and Innovation Loan provided by the Ban k to
Turkey through Treasury would be made available to selected exchanges through TOBB. The
relationship between Treasury and TOBB would be governed through an Implementation Agreement.
Amongst others, TOBB has agreed (a) to guarantee Treasury loans made to participating exchanges and
(b) to establish a Project Administration Unit which will be responsible for concluding subproject
agreements, disbursements, administration of loan repayments and financial management under this
component.
The participating exchanges participating under this program would finance eligible investments on
credit, based on business and investment plans (including financial statements). Eligible investment
categories are: (i) training and technical assistance; (ii) goods: laboratory and information technology
equipment, weighbridges, and (iii) civil works for trading floors and storage facilities (the latter, if
adequately justified). Disbursement would be made by TOBB to suppliers against presentation of relevant
documentation (suppliers bills etc.) provided by the exchange. TOBB would enter into a Subproject
Agreement with the individual exchange; key on-lending conditions to participating commodities
exchanges are as follows:
Project Component 2 - Development of Trading institutions and Strengthening of
Oversight Capabilities
US$0.95 million (total cost of component)
This component would consist of training and technical assistance to (a) introduce nationally accepted,
and internationally compatible quality grades for wheat and cotton; (b) design and initiate the
implementation of a warehouse receipt system; (c) improve market surveillance and supervision of
commodity exchanges; and (d) assist in the establishment of a communication network linking
commodity exchanges. The development of new quality standards acceptable to the industry; the
introduction of a warehouse receipt system acceptable by the private sector; and the development of a
meaningful electronic network will require a broad and systematic consultation process of all relevant
private and public sector participants. A task force approach has been agreed upon which would bring
together the interests of the various private and public sector stakeholders. Managing this process will
require leadership skills within Turkey as well as considerable international expertise, both of which
would be mobilized under the project. All activities related to this institutional development are being
initiated and launched under a Japanese Grant amounting to US$0.4 million.



23
Quality Standards/Grades for Wheat and Cotton. A consultative process involving relevant private
sector entities and public institutions through Advisory Groups will define quality standards/grades for
wheat and cotton with the technical assistance of international and national expertise, eventually resulting
in the adoption of new standard/grade legislation for these two commodities. The process would be
initiated under the Japanese Grant (US$130,000) and finalized under the project. During project
implementation MIT would establish a Licensing Department for grain and cotton inspectors. The
Department and newly licensed inspectors would be provided with training provided by international
expertise (US$22,000).
Warehouse Receipts. Similarly, a consultative process involving relevant private sector entities and
public institutions through Advisory Groups will define regulations required for operating licensed
'public' warehouses and issuing warehouse receipts with the assistance of international and national legal
and technical expertise, eventually resulting in the adoption of operational regulations. The process would
again be initiated under the Japanese Grant (US$53,000) and finalized under the project.
During project implementation MIT would establish and staff a warehouse licensing department for grain
and cotton warehouses. The warehouse licensing inspectors of this new department would be trained in
the USA (US$50,000). Training and expertise would equally be provided to the interested public
(insurance and banking industry, commodities exchanges, flour millers; US$50,000). Two small pilot
projects (total cost: US$400,000), one for cotton in the Aegean and one for grains in Central Anatolia
would implement one full cycle with a limited number of selected warehouses. This cycle would consist
of warehouse inspection, licensing, bonding, warehouse receipt issuing, and credit and trading against
warehouse receipts; participating warehousemen would be training, again in the USA. Insurance and
banking sectors would be involved in these pilot projects.
MiT's Commodity Exchange Oversight. Under the project, senior staff from MIT would receive
training in exchange oversight in the USA (through the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
USDA; (US$15,000). The selected exchange inspectors located throughout Turkey as well as staff of the
new Oversight Department (to be established at MIT) would be trained in Turkey with international
expertise (US$50,000).
Project Component 3-Project Impact Evaluation US$0.20 million (total cost of component)
This component will be essential to learn the lessons critical for further market development and policy
reform. It would also contribute to the on-going sector dialogue between the Government and the Bank.
Evaluation activities will cover performance indicator related to (a) trade taking place at exchanges
participating under this project (and for selected exchanges not supported under this operation); (b) for
off-exchange trade taking place within the catchment area of participating exchanges; and (c) in terms of
market integration and price convergence between participating exchanges. A baseline study will be
undertaken during the first months of project implementation.
Project impact evaluation will be carried out by an institution acceptable to the Bank to be determined by
a formal selection procedure. This agency needs to have staff experienced in commodity marketing both
in Turkey and internationally, with good analytical skills and ability to evaluate the impact of government
policies on the project's progress, as well as to coordinate surveys. The retained agency needs to be
selected based on terms of reference acceptable.
A Project Implementation Unit (total cost of operation: US$220,000) will be established under the
Ministry of Industry and Trade.



24
Annex 3
Commodity Market Development
Estimated Project Costs
Local       Foreign      Total
----------------US$ million---------------
Modernization Support to Selected Commodity           1.15           2.78        3.93
Exchanges
Development of Trading and Regulatory Institutions    0.26           0.62        0.88
Project Impact Evaluation                             0.04           0.12        0.16
PIU                                                   0.06           0.14        0.20
Total                                                 1.51           3.66        5.17
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                              0.09          0.19        0.28
Price Contingencies                                 0.09          0.13        0.22
Total Project Cost                                    1.67           4.00        5.67
Note: Discrepancies due to rounding.



25
Annex 4
Commodity Market Development
Financial Summary
Years Ending 12/31
(US$ million, base year 1998)
Implementation Period
CY98     CY99      CYOO      CYOl
Project Costs
Investment Costs              0.38      2.50      2.01      0.54
Recurrent Costs               0.02      0.10      0.08      0.02
Total                      0.40      2.61      2.10      0.57
Financing Sources
(% of total project costs)
IBRD/IDA (700%)                0.31       1.83      1.46     0.40
Commodity Exchanges (23%)      0.09      0.60      0.48      0.13
Government (7%)               0.00      0.18      0.15      0.03
Total                      0.40      2.61      2.10      0.57
Main assumptions: The project becomes effective by September 1998; GOT project
budget contribution becomes available as of January 1999 onwards.
Note: Discrepancies due to rounding



26
Annex 5
Commodities Market Development
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement See Table A.
Procurement methods
Procurement of goods would be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
and September 1997). Consulting services, technical assistance Ead training would be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents,
Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract would be used. Since it is not intended
to conduct subproject appraisal in advance, a table showing procurement arrangements has not
been prepared. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development
Business in July 1998.
Responsibility: Procurement under Component I will be the responsibility of the individual
participating commodity exchange with the guidance of the PAT' in TOBB. The TOBB itself will
have a trained procurement person. Procurement under Component II and m will be the
responsibility of the PIU under MIT. This PIU will be staffed with a procurement specialist.
Procurement training will be provided by Bank staff, especially by the Resident Mission
procurement specialist to the purchasing staff of the exchanges. In addition, under Japanese Grant
funds procurement support will be made available to train procurement staff under PAT and PIU.
Component I: Exchange Modernization Support: for goods estimated to cost less than US$0.5
million equivalent per contract and for services (TA and training) to cost less than US$0.5 million
per contract, procurement will be undertaken by the individual exchanges using commercial
practices. International shopping would be applied for goods estimated to cost more than US$0.5
million but less than US$1.0 million equivalent per contract. National Competitive Bidding would
be applied for works estimated to cost more than US$0.25 million but less than US$1.5 million
equivalent per contract. The procurement method applicable to minor works will be used for civil
works contracts estimated to cost less than US$0.25 million equivalent per contract.
Participating exchanges are privately operated associations with exclusively private sector
membership. The exchange's General Assembly approves the annual budget (including investment
budget) which is implemented by management under the supervision of the Board. Commercial
practices currently applied by individual exchanges in Turkey generally are based on: at least three
separate price quotations and prior contract approval by the Board up to around U$$10,000 per
contract; and formal tender procedures for contracts above US$10,000 requiring contract approval
of the General Assembly.
Component II: Development of Trading Institutions and Strengthening of Oversight Regulations:
One major QCBS-based contract (estimated to cost US$950,000) will be concluded to hire all TA
and training services under the component. No goods and works are procured under this
component.



27
Component m: Project Inpact Monitoring: One single QCBS contract (estimated to cost
US$200,000) based on a National Shortlist will be concluded for the TA to carry out this
component. No goods and works are procured under this component.
Recurrent Costs: MIT intends to recruit staff for the PIU from outside in accordance with
Government regulations and based on TORs satisfactory to the Bank. This will result in recurrent
costs, part of which will be financed under the Loan. Expenditures associated with incremental
operating costs would be incurred according to procedures satisfactory to the Bank and in
accordance with an annual budget acceptable to the Bank.
Prior and post review
Prior review thresholds are shown in Table A, Annex 5 "Procurement Arrangements. Prior review
and ex-post review will be carried out in accordance to Bank Procurement Guidelines.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds
See Table B
The Loan would be disbursed over a period of around 2 1/2 years.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Thresholds:   US$1.0 million for goods
US$1.5 million for works
US$0.2 million for services
US$0.05 million for incremental recurrent costs
Special account:
Maximum Allocation: US$400,000



Annex 5, Table A: Procurement Arrangements1, and
*__________  __________Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review2
= =_  _     _    _     _    _       o    . c         t                    __'__________IT
Goods and          ICB            NCB             IS           NS       Minor Works    Other methods   Percentage of loan
Civil Works                                                                             (commercial    amount subject to
_____  practice)  prior review
Procurement    Goods:         Goods: N/A      Goods:         Goods:    Goods: N/A      Goods: <US$0.5
thresholds:    >US$1.0 m.                     <US$1.0 m      N/A                        m                       N/A
individual and   Works:       Works:         Works: NA       Works:    Works:          Works: N/A          see Footnote I
aggregate      >US$1.5 m       <US$1.5 m                     N/A        <US$0.25 m
Prior Review
All            First          First        N/A                          first              N/A
Consultants    QCBS           QBS             Fixed Budget   LCS        Qualifi-            Other       Individuals
See Footnote 2                                           cations            methods
Procurement
method          > US$0.1 m         N/A             N/A          N/A          N/A       CP <$50,000          >US$50,000
thresholds     See Footnote 3 1             1               1          1              1
Prior Review
All            N/A            N/A          N/A          N/A                                 All
Ex-post       Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
Review
Prior review and ex-post review will be carried out in accordance to Bank Procurement Guidelines.
Brief statement
The capacity of the PIU to carry out procurement is limited. in order to facilitate procurement, two major T A contracts will be prepared with TA
under a Japanese Grant and tendered prior to project start-up. Procurement of goods, works and TA under the Exchange Modernization
component will be carried out by exchanges using commercial practices at which the exchanges are well versed.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year
Strategy Paper status:                                     ready by negotiations
Yes  13    No X under preparation vwith Japanese Grant, likely to be
May 1997                           finalized prior to Effectiveness
1 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD1 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations." Details on Consultant
Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).
2 Thresholdsgenerally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement
Adviser for guidance.



____________________________ _ .E  a
Estimated date of   Estimated date of        Indicate if there is      Domestic Preference for    Domestic Preference for
Project Launch      publication of General   procurement subject to    Goods                     Works, if applicable
Workshop            Procurement Notice        mandatory SPN in                                    Yes O No X
9/15/98             06/1/98                  Development Business      Yes X   No  a
Yes 03
______________No_ X
Retroactive financing  Epan
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
Semi-annual Project Report to be prepared by PIU will include a section on procurement. Assistance by the Bank's Resident Mission Procurement
Speciaiist will be sought in conducting training and procurement monitoring; and carrying out periodic reviews.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing:
N/A
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:  Name: Naushad Khan
(ECSRE)             Ext: 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: The Resident Mission procurement advisor will be actively involved in (a)
procurement training for Borrower staff; (b) procurement monitoring; and (c) on-going procurement support.
Footnote 1:
This operation provides financial support to eligible exchanges to carry out eligible investments (subprojects) under acceptable business plans (which
will include a procurement plan). These business and investments subprojects are currently not finalized. Hence, the aggregate amount for each
procurement method, and the percentage of Loan subject to Bank's prior review cannot be determined at this stage. The first non-ICB procurement
package under each subproject agreement will be subject to prior review. Inclusion of a procurement plan for each subproject agreement under an
agreed format will be a requirement. Two of these business plans will be subject to Bank's prior review.
Footnote 2:
QCBS will be carried out for the single TA package under Component II: Institutional Development (US$950,000)
QCBS using a National Short List will be carried out for the TA carrying out Component IlIl Project Impact Assessment (US$200,000)
Footnote 3:
As per Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Section II, Part D; 2(b)



30
Annex 5, Table B: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure                  Amount                 Financing
Category                 (US$ million)            Percentage
Subprojects under Component I          2.80            70 percent of all
invoiced expenditures
under approved
subproject amount
Consultant Services and                0.62            70 percent
Training under Component II
Consultant Services under              0.12            70 percent
Component III
Recurrent Cost under PIU               0.14            70 percent
Unallocated                            0.32
Total                      4.00
The number of subprojects is limited to seven. The relevant Disbursement Category (Subprojects under
Component I) is designed to track disbursements amounts in aggregate for individual subprojects, not to
track types of expenditures (services, goods, works) within each subproject. The latter is not known ex-
ante and will be established only as participating exchanges finalize and present their business,
investment and procurement plans in the course of project implementation.
A Special Account (SA) would be opened on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The
authorized allocation has been established at US$400,000. This amount can be drawn by submitting the
relevant Application of Withdrawal. MIT would be authorized to submit the relevant Application of
Withdrawal.
SOEs. All disbursements against contracts exceeding US$1,000,000 equivalent for goods; US$1,500,000
equivalent for works; and US$200,000 equivalent for services from firms and US$50,000 from individual
consultants; and US$50,000 for incremental operating cost would be fully documented. For expenditures
below that level, disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures for which detailed
documents evidencing expenditures would be kept by the PAT under TOBB and reviewed by the PIU
under MIT for Component I; and the PIU under MIT for Component lI and III; these documents would
be made available for the required audits as well as to the Bank, upon request.
Loan disbursements would be carried out as follows. Under Component I: (i) TOBB would be
authorized by Treasury to disburse from the Special Account (SA) for eligible expenditures below the
SOE threshold under agreed subprojects directly to suppliers; (ii) TOBB would provide MIT with
relevant documentation on the basis of which MIT will process withdrawal applications to the Bank for
replenishment of the SA; and (iii) under the SA held with the Central Bank Treasury would establish
upper limits for withdrawal by disbursement category; such as US$300,000 for use by TOBB under
Disbursement Category 1 (which reflects disbursements under Component I); and US$100,000 for use of
MIT for Disbursement Category 2, 3, and 4 (which reflects disbursements under Component II and III);
and (iv) for expenditures above the SOE threshold, TOBB would be authorized to submit payment
applications directly to the Bank. Under Component H and m  MIT would have the authority to



31
disburse from the SA and to make replenishment requests, as well as to submit direct payment
instructions to the Bank for payments above the SOE threshold. In submitting direct payment instructions
to the Bank, a unique application number by implementing agency would be provided to facilitate Loan
administration (i.e. MIT would prefix their direct payment instructions with 'MIT-'; and TOBB would
prefix theirs with 'TOBB-').



32
Annex 6
Commodities Market Development Project -
Learning and Innovation Loan
Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$45,000 BB + $40,000   $70,000 BB +
FAO/CP                $30,000 FAO/CP
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      2 months              7 months
First Bank mission (identification)              11/23/97             11/23/97
Appraisal mission departure                       1/5/98              2/26/98
Negotiations                                     5/18/98              6/10/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    9/30/98
Prepared by: Ministry of Industry and Trade; and Bank team
Preparation assistance: FAO/CP consultants: Si Matfties (grain trading specialist) and Keith
Kramer (information technology specialist)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Namne                                    Specialtv
Severin Kodderitzsch                  Task Team Leader, Economist
Panos Varangis                  Commodity Trade Specialist, Economist
Cuneyt Okan                            Operations Specialist
Nedret Durutan                         Agriculture Specialist
John Nash                      Policy Analyst, Principal Economist
Naushad Khan                        Senior Procurement Specialist
Ziad Allahad                      Deputy Chief of Mission, Turkey
Dilek Barlas                                Counsel
Rohit Mehta                        Senior Disbursement Officer
Michel Debatisse                           Peer Reviewer
E. Gail Lee                             Team Assistant



33
Annex 7
Commodities Market Development
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Bank Staff Mission Aide-Memoire: May 1996; May 1997; September 1997;
November 1997; March 1998
C. Other
Planning Commodity Exchanges - Turkey. FAO. December 1994
Turkey - Agriculture Commodities Market Development Project - Initial
Preparation Report. FAO/CP. October 1996
*-Including electronic files.



MOP Schedule D
Genearted 06/26/98
Status of Bank Group Operations in Turkey
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IrBRD      IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed       Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 203
Active Loans
TR-PE-48852   IBRD43440   1998   TEAS                              NAT'L. TRNSM. GRID             270.00       0.00            0.00       270.00        0.00       0.00
TR-PE-8985    IBRD43150   1998   CESME - ALACATI UNION             CESME W.S. & SEWER.             13.10       0.00            0.00        13.10        0.00       0.00
TR-PE-9072    IBRD42350   1998   REP. OF TURKEY                    PRIV. OF IRRIGATION             20.00        0.00           0.00        19.50        1.97       0.00
TR-PE-45073   IBRD40890   1997   GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY              OIL PIPELINE ENG.                5.00       0.00            0.00          4.00       3.17       0.00
TR-PE-9095    IBRD42010   1997   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                PRIM HEALTH CARE SER            14.50        0.00           0.00         14.50       2.77       0.00
TR-PE-35759   IBRD39420   1996   GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY              PUBLIC FINAN. MGT.              62.00        0.00           0.00         59.47      23.71       -.05
TR-PE-38091   IBRD4048A   1996   GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY              ROAD IMPR. C SAFETY            150.00        0.00           0.00       144.78       18.62       0.00
TR-PE-38091   IBRD40490   1996   GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY              ROAD IMPR. & SAFETY            100.00        0.00           0.00         53.64      18.62       0.00
TR-PE-9076    IBRD3802A   1995   GOVERNMENT                        HEALTH II                      136.17        0.00           0.00       111.67       62.12       0.00
TR-PE-9093    IBRD38936   1995   ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND          ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY           100.00        0.00           0.00         88.18      18.19       0.00
TR-PE-9102    IBRD3728A   1994   GOT                               PRIVATIZATION IMPLEM            82.81       0.00           27.25         50.73      77.14       7.66
TR-PE-9023    IBRD3567A   1993   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                E. ANATOLIA WATERSHE            62.48        0.00           0.00        55.31       47.25       0.00
TR-PE-9064    IBRD3541A   1993   GOVERMNT                          EMPLOYMENT & TRAININ            48.82        0.00           0.00         42.44      28.24       0.00
TR-PE-9064    IBRD3541S   1993   GOVERNMENT                        EMPLOYMENT 6 TRAININ            18.18        0.00           0.00           .05      28.24       0.00
TR-PE-9065    IBRD3565A   1993   HUN. OF BURSA/BUSKI               BURSA WATER a SANITA            85.61        0.00          20.00        48.44       20.92       2.55
TR-PE-9065    IBRD3565S   1993   HUN. OF BURSA/BUSKI               BURSA WATER & SANITA            31.39        0.00           0.00           .01      20.92       2.55
TR-PE-9065    IBRD3566A   1993   MUN. OF BURSA/BUSKI               BURSA WATER * SANITA             7.84        0.00           0.00          6.91      20.92       2.55
TR-PE-9099    IBRD3511A   1993   GOVT. OF TURKEY                   EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRU            58.90       0.00            0.00        53.77       62.43      33.63
TR-PE-9044    IBRD3472A   1992   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                AGRIC. RESEARCH                 34.70        0.00           0.00        24.86       28.84        .17
TR-PE-9044    IBRD3472S   1992   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                AGRIC. RESEARCH                 14.30        0.00           0.00           .16      28.84        .17
TR-PE-9097    IBRD3477A   1992   GOT                               TA FOR TREASURY DATA             2.12        0.00           0.00          1.41       1.42       0.00
TR-PE-9058    IBRD3296A   1991   GOV. OF TURKEY                    TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME            42.30        0.00           0.00         17.62      17.60       0.00
TR-PE-9071    IBRD3345A   1991   TEAS/TEDAS                        TEK RESTRUCT.                   69.88        0.00           0.00         44.85      82.02       0.00
TR-PE-9071    IBRD33451   1991   TEAS/TEDAS                        TEK RESTRUCT.                   40.00        0.00           0.00         37.18      82.02       0.00
TR-PE-8974    IBRD3177S   1990   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                AG.EXTN. II                     40.50        0.00           0.00          1.40      13.39        .91
TR-PE-9029    IBRD3192A   1990   GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY              NATIONAL EDUCATION D            57.28        0.00           0.00         47.20      47.46       0.00
TR-PE-9029    IBRD31925   1990   GOVERNKSNT OF TURKEY              NATIONAL EDUCATION D            17.88        0.00           0.00           .22      47.46       0.00
TR-PE-9061    IBRD3151A   1990   ANKARA WS6S GEN. DIRECTOR         ANKARA SEWERAGE                 25.13        0.00           0.00          6.30      72.04       4.46
TR-PE-9030    IBRD3057A   1989   GOVERNMENT                        HEALTH I                        26.77        0.00           0.00         10.82      11.57       0.00
TR-PE-8988   IPRD2922S   1988   GOVT. OF TURKEY                    IND. TRAIN. II                  71.25        0.00           0.00          3.07        3.11      0.00
Total                                                                                           1,708.91        0.00          47.25     1,231.65      891.00      54.60
Active Loans        Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               -425. 99         9,894.38           10,320.37
of which has been repaid:                16.14           6,967.41           6,983.55
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             1,665.68           2,935.72            4,601.40
Amount sold                     :               0.00                3.55               3.55
Of which repaid             :                0.00               3.55                3.55
Total Undiabursed               :           1,231.65                7.21           1,238.86
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbur ements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see 00 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation Of Implementation Suary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be uaed (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satiafactory, U - unsatisfactory, MU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



35                                     MOP Schedule D
Turkey
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-May-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval           Company         Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
0/97                Rant Leasing           4.76    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.76    0.00    0.00    0.00
1970/71/82/83/98     Viking                12.05    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1979/82/83/89191/96  Trakya Cam             0.00    0.00    5.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.06    0.00
1983/94/98           Pinar ET              13.92    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.92    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/90              Silkar Turizm          4.70    0.00    0.00    5.36    4.70    0.00    0.00    5.36
1988/90              Kiris                 21.51    0.00    0.00    0.00   21.51    0.00    0.00    0.00
1988/90/93           IGFK                    .92    0.00    0.00    0.00    .92    0.00    0.00    0.00
1988/93/96           Elginkan              21,01    0.00    0.00    1.87   21.01    0.00    0.00    1.87
1989                 Edirne                 3.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990                 Kepez Elektrik        16.60    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92              Koy-Tur                3.91    4.00    .13    0.00    3.91    4.00    .13    0.00
1990/93              Conrad                19.53    4.00    .29    3.06   18.18    4.00    .29    3.06
1991                 ELBO                   2.95    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.95    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 Kula                   8.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.31    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 NASCO                 13.14    2.50    0.00    4.44   13.14    2.50    0.00    4.44
1992                 Cayeli Bakir          25.80    0.00    0.00   22.95   25.80    0.00    0.00   22.95
1992/97              Korfezbank            15.00    0.00    0.00   35.00   13.50    0.00    0.00   31.50
1993/96              Eldor                  6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96              Medya                  5.67    0.00    4.99    0.00    5.67    0.00    4.99    0.00
1993/96              Sise Ve Cam           27.90    0.00    0.00   34.99   27.90    0.00    0.00   34.99
1993/98              Turkiye Garanti       40.00    0.00    0.00   95.00   40.00    0.00    0.00   95.00
1994                 AYTAC                  6.67    0.00    0.00    8.33    6.67    0.00    0.00    8.33
1994                 Cerrahogullari         2.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                 CBS Holding            4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                 Pinar SUT              3.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.13    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                 Tekfen                 3.57    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/96           Global Security        0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1994/96              Demirbank             17.14    0.00    0.00   25.00   17.14    0.00    0.00   25.00
1994/96/97           Borcelik              30.00   12.06    0.00    0.00   30.00   12.06    0.00    0.00
1994/97              Assan                 21.23    0.00    5.00   10.00   21.23    0.00    5.00   10.00
1994/98              Garanti Leasing       10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/98              Isvicre Hayat          0.00    .49    0.00    0.00    0.00    .49    0.00    0.00
1995                 Ekspres Bank           7.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.14    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 Entek                 25.00    0.00    0.00   26.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 Turk Ekon Bank         5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 TDD                    1.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 Yalova Acrylic        11.25    0.00    0.00    6.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    6.00
1995/96              Arcelik               46.40    0.00    0.00   40.00   46.40    0.00    0.00   40.00
1995/96              CBS Boya Kimya         0.00    3.65    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.65    0.00    0.00
1996                 CBS Printas            0.00    .62    0.00    0.00    0.00    .62    0.00    0.00
1996                 Kocbank               10.00    0.00    0.00   60.00   10.00    0.00    0.00   60.00
1996                 Koclease              15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                 TCRA                   0.00    .10    0.00    0.00    0.00    .05    0.00    0.00
1997                 Oyak Bank             15.00    0.00    0.00   25.00   12.58    0.00    0.00   20.43
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on June 13, 1998



36                                         MOP Schedule D
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997                  Toprak Leasing           6.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/98               Demir Leasing           15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/98               Finans Leasing          11.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/98               Yapi Kredi Lease        10.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Modem Karton           20.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Soktas                  12.92    0.00    0.00    0.(0   10.09    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  577.90   29.92   15.47  413.50  506.70   29.87   15.47  368.93
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Eiuitv  Quasi  Partic
1998                  ADANA/0YAK              15.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1998                  ALTERNATIF BANK         10.00    0.00 .  5.00   25.00
1998                  BANDIRMA H. P.           9.00    0.00    0.00   15.50
1998                  BAYINDIR                26.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1995                  ENTEK - KOC             0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00
1998                  INDORAMA                10.00     .66    0.00    0.00
1998                  IPEK PAPER             32.27    0.00    0.00   18.00
1997                  KORFEZBNK BLINC         0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
1998                  OTTOMAN                20.00    0.00    0.00   80.00
1998                  PASABAHCE-              16.43    0.00    0.00   16.43
SCHOTT
Total Pending Commitment:         138.70     .66    5.00  194.93
Generated by the Operations Infonnation System (OIS) on June 13, 1998



37
Turkey at a glance
Europe & Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central middle-
Turkey      Asia zegovina      Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                      62.7       479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                          2,890      2,180    1,750                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                            184.6      1,043    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (YO)                                      1.7        0.3      1.4       
Labor force (Y)                                       2.1       0.5      1.8     GNP                                Gros
per                              primar
Moat recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                          capita                         enrolimen
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)              69        65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      67        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)             48        26       41                 Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                92
Illiteracy (7t of population age 1S+)                 18         ..r..
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  97       97      104             -Jurkey
Male                                               101        97      105            -Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              94        97      101
KEY ECONOMtC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1995    1996
GOP (billions US$)                          46.7    67.2      169.3   182.1      Economic ratios'
Gross domestic investment/GOP               17.9    16.5       25.5    23.8
Exports of goods & non factor services/GDF   4.2    15.9       19.9    21.5                Openness oi economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  11.4    13.4       21.0    17.8
Gross national savings/GDP                  17.0    17.1       22.0    18.8
Current account balancelGDP                 -3.5    -1.5       -1.4    -2.6
Interest payments/GOP                        0.3     2.0        2.5      2.3     Savings                              Inv
Total debt/GDP                              10.8    38.7       43.6    43.8
Total debt servicelexports                  11.3    35.0       31.3    25.7
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..       40.8
Present value of debt/exportE                 ..      ..    164.8                             Indebtedness
1975-45  1986-96    1996      1996  1997.00
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.1     3.9      7.2        6.8      4.5           -Turkey
GNPpercapita                        0.4     2.1      5.9        5.1      2.5
Exports of goods and services      17.5     8.4      8.0       21.7    10.4            -Lower-middle-incomegroup
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1986       1995    1996
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 35.8    20.4       16.4    17.4      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Industry                                    19.9    27.1       30.5    27.9        T
Manufacturing                             12.5    17.7       21.0    18.0       20_   2       .             /.
Services                                    44.3    52.5       53.2    54.7 o
-20 -   1   92   92    \    9    9
Private consumption                         79.1    79.8      68.2    70.6    .40
General govemment consumption                9.5     6.8       10.8    11.6                      8GDI   - DO--GDP
Imports of goods & non factor serviceE      10.7    19.0       24.4    27.5
197545  1986-96      1996    1996
(average annual growth)
Agrculture                                   0.9     1.3        1.0      4.8     Growth rates of exports and irnports (%)
Industry                                     3.2     4.7        7.4      6.4     40
Manufacturng                               3.7      5.3      11.7      6.4      20
Services                                     4.2     3.9        6.2      7.2
Private consumption                         2.3      4.1        6.4      9.3                  92   93 9g5o
General govemment consumption                3.7     3.9        5.3      5.4     -
Grass domestic investment                    0.2     4.4       31.8      0.2     -4
Imports of goods and services               2.6      9.5       29.6    19.0               -     Eprs  ---tmportcs
Grass national product                       2.7     4.0        8.2      6.9
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
I the diamonds snow tour Yey indicators in the country tin botd) compared witn its income-group average. it data are missing, the diamondrtwil
be tncomptete.
Turkey



38
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                        __ -
1975    1985       1996    1996       _
Domeostic price.                                                                 Inflatbon (%)
Consumer prices                             19.2    45.7       93.6    78.8
Implicit G DP deflator                      20.5    52.1       87.0    78.3    100
Govemmtentfin nce's
(X of GDP)                                                                        o 0               
Current revenue                                                20.8    21.8             91   9z   03   94   ss   go
Current budget balance                                          0.1    -2J7                  -GDP def.  C PI
Overaml surplus/deficii                                        -4.8    -9.2
TRADE
I                           ~~~~~~~1975    1985  1996    1996
(mililons US$)                                                                   Expert and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob:                                          21,637   23,123
Textiles                                                    8,404    8,570      50.00)
Processed agricultural products                             3,407    3,687     4co,Oo
Machinery and equipment                                     2,346    2,966
Total imports (cif)                           ..       ..   35,709   42,734      30.-o*
Food (processed agricultural products)                      2,282    2,531      200
Fuel and energy                                             4,812    6,089      1001
Capital goods                                              11,437   14.969
Export price index(1987=100)                            ,      121      115             90       92  93 9     9Os  so
Import price index (1987=100)                 ..       ..       116     116                 ra Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     ..       ..       104      99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1996    1996
(millions US$)
Exports of goods and services              2,018   11,119    36,581   42,496     Current account balance to GDP ratio (/)
Imports of goods and services              4,979   12,661    40,601   49,070
Resource balance                      '  -2,961   -1,542    -4,020   46,574
Net income                                  -123   -1,455    -2,815   -2,639     z-
Net current transfers                      1,437    1,984     4,496    4,447
0.
Current account balance,                              o1
before official capital transfern       -1,647   -1,013    -2,339   -4,766     -
inancing items (net)                        970    1,137      6,997    9,311
Changes in net reserves                     677     -124    -4,658   -4,545
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)        1,444    2,322    13,754   17,614
Conversion rate flocaUVS$)                  14.4   522.0    45,845   81,137
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985       1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1996
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       5,059   25,998    73,779   79,789     (mill. USS)
IBRD                                      288    3,432      4,939    4,260
IDA                                       144      178       130      124                        A  8C
Total debt service                          377    4,600    11,448   10,940               G       4124   D
IBRD                                       31      400      1,278    1,147            20092             5077
IDA                                         2        5         7        7
E
Composition of net resource towv                                                                            8113
Official grants                            18      115       439      400
Official creditors                        165      424    -1,180    -840
Pnvate creditors                          -11      -14        46    1,080
Foreign direct investment                 114       99       772      612
Portfolio equity                            0        0      1,108    -983                         F
World Bank program
Commitments                               158      838       162      255      A- IRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             108      636       422      489      B-IDA    D- Other mutWbateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                       12      159       882      815      C-IMF                      G- Short-term
Net flows                                  97      477       -460    -326       _
Interest payments                          21      246       396      339
Net transfers                              76      231       -856    -665
Development Economics                                                                                              antas
'Non-finencial Pubic Secror



-39 -
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country:                      TURKEY                 Project ID No:        TR-PE-48851
Project Name:                 Commodities Market   Total Project Cost:
Development Project                         US$7.0 million
(LIL)
Appraisal Date:               2/23/1998
Board Date:                   6/15/1998              Task Team Leader:     S. Kodderitzsch
Managing Division             ECSRE                  Sector                Rural Development
Est. date for receipt of EA by Bank:   N/A
EA Category (A/B/C):           B                     Date Assigned:        1/29/1998
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated   2/2/1998
(Please do not leave any items blank: use "N/A" or "To be developed" when appropriate)
Major Project Components: (presents description of project components)
Investment suuport to exchanges would be provided by facilitating the financing of a range ('menu') of investments on a
cost recovery basis ranging from installation of electronic communication network, over laboratory equipment to monitor
the use of new quality standards, to limited investments in civil work for warehouses (if justified); and training and
technical assistance to acquire the skills and knowledge to operate, and benefit from, systems of improved price discovery
and dematerialized trade. The decision on the part of selected exchanges (i.e. Izmir, Adana, Sanliurfa, Polatli, Konya,
Eskishir, and Edirne) to borrow under the project for these investments is, of course, voluntary based on the choice of
investments provided within a framework or 'menu' of investments. The investments supported under the project should
enhance the business opportunities of the exchanges and allow them to provide enhanced services in the future.
Strengthening of the remu1atov institutions would consist of training and technical assistance to (a) introduce uniform,
internationally compatible quality standards for cotton and grains; (b) design and initiate the implementation of a
warehouse receipt system; (c) improve market surveillance and supervision of commodity exchanges; and (d) assist in the
establishment of a communication network linking commodity exchanges; (e) increase the general awareness of the
opportunities and limits of exchange-based marketing; and (f) the establishment of a small PIU.
The development of new quality standards acceptable to the industry; the introduction of a warehouse receipt system
acceptable by the private sector; and the development of a meaningfuil electronic network will require a broad and
systematic consultation process of all relevant private and public participants. A task force approach has been suggested
that would bring together the interests of the various stakeholders. Managing this process will require leadership skills
within Turkey as well as considerable international expertise, both of which would be mobilized under the project.
Monitoring and evaluation of project implementation and impact will be essential to learn the lessons critical for further
market development and policy reform. It would also contribute to the on-going sector dialogue between the Government
and the Bank. Monitoring activities would cover for instance (a) baseline and ex-post survey of major existing users of
exchange services, including indicators of increased usage and improved efficiency of operation at the level of the
exchanges; and (b) monitoring of market integration amongst participating exchanges and between participating and
non-participating exchanges. While the responsibility for these activities would be with the MIT, it is suggested that
these monitoring functions be outsourced to university departments, consulting firms, or other qualified institutions.
MUor Enwromnental Issues: (describes major environmental issues identified or suspected in project)



-40 -
No major environmental issues are anticipated under this project. Warehouse receipts will generate
environmental benefits by reducing road transport of commodities.
Other Enironmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
Should exchanges choose to invest in the construction of warehouses (i.e. civil works) adequate safety measures
regarding fire hazard, traffic, and rodent and pest control need to be ensured.
ProposedAdions: (describes actions proposed to mitigate enviromnental issues described in project)
Exchanges will be required to comply with Turkish laws and regulations pertaining to environrmental review
and the construction code for commodity warehouses to ensure adequate control of fire hazard, traffic control and
fiumigant applied for rodent control. Turkish regulations are deemed adequate in light of the limited scope of anticipated
investments in civil works under this project.
JustiflicatoRationdie for Envronmental Category: (reasons for env. category selected & explanation of any changes from initial
classification)
Limited civil works are likely to be carried out under this project. Category and Actions are designed to ensure
adequate safety and environmental standards m the construction and operation of commodity warehouses.
Stats of CategoryA EnvronmentalAssessment: (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current status)
N/A
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has
given permission to release EA, etc)
N/A
Signed by: z-                                           Signe byA:    <      /
Severin Kodderitzsch                                        /Michele D  7evers
1 Y            /              { \   February 2, 1998
_   ,J'          j -            \/



41
Annex 11
(Draft) Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Treasury and TOBB
The following provides some critical elements of an Implementation Agreement between Treasury and
TOBB. While this is not necessarily an exhaustive list, it should provide some guidance on the aspects
that the Bank would expect to see covered.
1.    The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is subject to the Loan Agreement between the World
Bank and Treasury.
2.    Treasury will make available [US$3.0 million] under a Loan provided by the World Bank
to finance eligible modernization investments at individual commodities exchanges at the
following exchanges: Adana, Edirne, Eskisehir, Izmir, Konya, Polatli and Sanliurfa. Terms and
conditions of financial support are subject to agreement between the World Bank and Treasury;
tentative terms and conditions are provided in Attachment III.
3.    Eligible investment categories are: (i) training and technical assistance; (ii) goods:
laboratory and information technology equipment, weighbridges, and (iii) civil works for trading
floors and storage facilities (the latter, if adequately justified). Eligibility criteria for support will
also be elaborated.
4.    Should exchanges choose to invest in the construction of warehouses (i.e. civil works)
adequate safety measures regarding fire hazard, traffic, and rodent and pest control need to be
ensured. To that effect, participating exchanges will be required to comply with Turkish laws and
regulations pertaining to environmental review and the construction code for commodity
warehouses to ensure adequate control of fire hazard, traffic control and fumigant applied for
rodent control. Turkish regulations are deemed adequate in light of the limited scope of
anticipated investments in civil works under this project. TOBB will ensure compliance with such
regulations.
5.    Financial support to participating exchanges will be subject to preparation and
presentation by the participating exchanges of business plans, investment plans, and financial
statements of sufficient quality.
6.    TOBB, jointly with MIT will review credit applications including business plans,
investment plans, and financial statements. If necessary, TOBB will request participating
exchanges to revise these plans. The first and the third credit application will equally be reviewed
by the World Bank on a no objection basis.
7.    The standardized credit application form as well as standardized subproject agreement are
attached to the Implementation Agreement.
8.    TOBB will sign subproject agreements with individual exchanges based on terms and
conditions agreed between the World Bank and Treasury. By signing the subproject agreement,
TOBB guarantees to Treasury the compliance (in particular debt service) of the participating
exchange with the terms and conditions under the individual subproject agreement.



42
9.    Treasury will authorize TOBB to and TOBB will disburse directly to suppliers contracted
by the exchanges against invoices prepared by suppliers and presented by the exchanges for
eligible expenditures as agreed in the subproject agreement from the Special Account (for
expenditures below the SOE limit) or through requesting the World Bank to make direct
payments (for expenditures above the SOE limit).
10.   Exchanges will undertake debt service (interest and principal) to TOBB under the terms
and conditions of the subproject agreement at the prevailing exchange rate.
10.   TOBB will reimburse Treasury within [one week] of receipt of individual debt service
from the exchanges. In the event of delayed payment by the exchanges TOBB will have three
months to follow-up with the exchanges; should the exchanges have not satisfied debt service
subsequent to this three month period, TOBB will be liable for immediate payment of these
arrears.
11.   TOBB will maintain separate financial records under this project, of sufficient detail and
reasonably accessible to outside auditors. TOBB will provided Treasury and MIT with detailed
financial information on a semi-annual basis. Outside auditors would audit the financial records
annually.
12.   In order to carry out the above activities, TOBB will establish a small Project
Administration Unit consisting as a minimum of one Senior Project Manager and one accountant.
TOBB agrees to make the staff and financial statements accessible to the World Bank, as the
latter may reasonably request from time to time.
13.   TOBB agrees to provide the above services free of charge.



