                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 26836

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (SCL-43760 TF-25558)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.0 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                            FOR A

               TURKEY COMMODITIES MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                       November 26, 2003




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective November 25, 2003)

                          Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
                                   TL 1 = US$ 0.0000006705
                                  US$ 1 = TL 1,491, 426

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 to December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ARIP    --  Agricultural Reform Implementation Project
ASCU    --  Agricultural Sales Cooperative Union
CAS     --  Country Assistance Strategy
CMDP    --  Commodities Market Development Project
DIS     --  Direct Income Support
ICR     --  Implementation Completion Report
IT      --  Information Technology
LIBOR   --  London Inter-Bank Overnight Rate
LIL     --  Learning and Innovation Loan
MIT     --  Ministry of Industry and Trade
MOF     --  Ministry of Finance
PHRD    --  Policy and Human Resources Development
PIU     --  Project Implementation Unit
QAG     --  Quality Assurance Group
RM      --  Resident Mission
SEE     --  State Economic Enterprise
SEMOR   --  Seminar Organization, Consultancy, and Travel Co.
TA      --  Technical Assistance
TMO     --  Turkish Grain Board
TOBB    --  Turkish Union of Chambers of Commerce and Commodity Exchanges
WRS     --  Warehouse Receipt System




                         Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                      Country Director:     Andrew N. Vorkink
                       Sector Manager:      Joseph R. Goldberg
                          Team Leader:      Mark R. Lundell

                                           TURKEY
                 COMMODITIES MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P048851                                                  Project Name: TURKEY COMMODITIES MARKET
                                                                     DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Mark R. Lundell                                         TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 26, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: TURKEY COMMODITIES MARKET                                L/C/TF Number: SCL-43760; TF-25558
                            DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
   Country/Department: TURKEY                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural marketing and trade (75%); Central government
                            administration (25%)
                  Theme: Rural markets (P); Rural policies and institutions (P); Infrastructure
                            services for private sector development (P); Legal institutions for a
                            market economy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/15/1997                                     Effective: 09/30/1998                02/26/1999
     Appraisal: 02/23/1998                                         MTR: 12/31/1999                  01/31/2002
      Approval: 07/16/1998                                      Closing: 03/31/2001                 03/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY/MINISTRY OF TRADE AND INDUSTRY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Andrew N. Vorkink                              Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:                 Joseph R. Goldberg                             Joseph R. Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:             Mark R. Lundell                                Severin L. Kodderitzsch
ICR Primary Author:             Mark R. Lundell


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

Introduction

During the period 1975-99, Turkish agriculture grew at one-third the rate of the overall economy, with a
major reason being the unfavorable effects of government intervention in the sector. An important
mechanism of state intervention was direct price support through procurement of key crops by State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs). In addition to reducing the efficiency of agricultural production,
intervention also added to the country's fiscal deficit; price support levels were set by the Council of
Ministers, with the government providing intervention agencies with financing, and losses met by the
Treasury.

One reason for the government's reluctance to disengage from direct price support through public
procurement has been the perception that the private sector was not able to accomplish a broad range of
crop marketing functions, in particular the role played by commodity exchanges. This perception was
increased by the underdeveloped state of the country's commodity exchanges, with most providing only
basic services.

In the last few years, the government has committed to a broad program of reducing its intervention in the
agricultural sector. Under the Bank's Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP), approved in
July, 2001, the government agreed to reduce grain purchases by TMO, the Turkish Grain Board, and in
fact has done so. Additionally, Agricultural Sales Cooperative Unions (ASCUs), the principal agencies
                           1


supporting a number of commodities' prices, have been cut off from budgetary subsidies and are being
restructured. The Government has also drastically reduced other credit and input subsidies and moved to a
system of targeted income transfers, known as the Direct Income Support (DIS) Program. By
strengthening commodity exchanges, the Commodities Market Development Project (CMDP) was intended
to increase efficiency in commodity markets and facilitate productivity enhancements targeted by the
overall reform program.




_____________________________________________________


1
 TMO purchases have been falling since 1998. In 1998 TMO purchased 5.2 million tons of grain (26% of the
country's total production); in 1999, 4.2 million tons (23%); in 2000, 3 million tons (17%); in 2001, 1.5 million
tons (10%); and in 2002, around 0.8 million tons (5%).



                                                         - 2 -

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The overall objective of strengthening commodity-based infrastructure was to increase marketing
efficiency, and thereby assist government to disengage from its broad intervention policy. Specific project
objectives include: (a) increase the marketing efficiency of grains and cotton (Turkey's most important
commodities) through selected commodity exchanges by introducing improved systems of price discovery,
dematerialized trade, and regulatory oversight; (b) demonstrate the benefits of increased private commodity
marketing; and (c) provide a model for development of other private exchanges, and impetus for
government to withdraw from its intervention in the marketing of other commodities.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

l Modernization Support to Commodity Exchanges to facilitate financing, on a cost-recovery basis, at
    selected exchanges. Investment could be for: (a) training and technical assistance; (b) laboratory and
    information technology (IT) equipment, weighbridges; (c) civil works for trading floors and storage
    facilities.

    There are around 110 commodity exchanges in Turkey; most are rudimentary "registration points,"
    where commodities are traded and taxes paid. Around seven or eight exchanges serve the function of
    "price discovery," and it was these exchanges that were considered as potential participants in the
    project. The exchanges included in the project are private entities, owned by their members, and are
    self-supporting and generally profitable (see Tables 2 and 3). Their income derives mainly from a fee
    of 0.1% to 0.3% of the value of the commodities traded.

l Development of Trading Institutions and Strengthening of Oversight Capabilities: (a) Introduce
    nationally accepted and internationally compatible quality grades (standards) for wheat and cotton; (b)
    revise regulations and initiate implementation of a Warehouse Receipt System (WRS, see below); (c)
    improve market surveillance and supervision of commodity exchanges; (d) assist in the establishment
    of a communications network linking commodity exchanges. (A WRS permits producers to store their
                                                                      2


    commodities in warehouses, and in turn receive receipts stating the value of the goods, which can then
    be used as collateral for commercial loans. Warehouses guarantee that the commodity will be stored in
    a manner that will maintain the quality at which it was received. This allows producers and processors
    more flexibility in choosing when to buy and sell, potentially permitting them to obtain better prices)

l Project Impact Evaluation: Ongoing assessment to track key performance indicators and report at 3
    points, with baseline, mid-term, and final reports.




__________________________
2
 While it was initially envisioned that a communications network between exchanges would be required, as
participating exchanges increasingly began to use the internet for information dissemination it became evident that
a separate network would not be needed.



                                                       - 3 -

Project preparation and start-up were supported by a PHRD Grant of US$350,000. This grant was used to
fund an initial foreign study tour by exchange staff, design a common IT protocol for use by exchanges,
                                                       3


initiate development of modernized cotton and grain standards, initiate the process of formulating
legislation and regulations for a WRS, and train PIU staff.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at Entry is considered satisfactory:

Consistency with Country Strategy: The September 1997 CAS discussed the reform of economic
management as a priority, and within that area stressed: (a) privatization or closure of state-owned
enterprises; (b) restoring financial viability to the social security system; (c) reducing the fiscal cost and
distortionary impact of agricultural subsidies; (d) improving public financial management; (e) strengthening
the banking system. The CMDP principally addresses CAS goal (c), but also addresses (a) insofar as
strengthening private exchanges facilitates the government's efforts to restructure and eliminate government
support of the ASCUs and reduce the activity of TMO.

The central theme of the CAS relating to Bank agricultural assistance was poverty reduction and social
development: to help raise the productivity, incomes, and living standards of small farmers in poor areas.
The CMDP was explicitly described as an element of the Bank's support of the rural sector (although in
the CAS it was not considered as a Learning and Innovation Loan, or LIL).

Approach and Design Appropriateness: The design of the CMDP is considered highly appropriate.
Because of the country's previous setbacks in implementing agricultural reforms, the CAS provided for (1)
lending to small operations with a direct impact on rural poverty and in subsectors where the policy
environment was sufficiently supportive; and (2) carrying out technical and advisory work to demonstrate
the costs of the counterproductive policies and to help the government find acceptable solutions. While the
CMDP was originally discussed in the mid-1990s as an investment project (US$100 million was
discussed), in light of the slow pace of policy developments up to 1999, the CMDP was implemented as a
LIL with an envisioned Bank contribution of US$4 million. This minimized costs and risks to the
Borrower, while maintaining Bank involvement in an important institutional area.

Government Ownership: Government ownership was substantial. At the time of project identification,
given the inefficiencies and high cost of intervention, the Government signaled its intention to reduce
support of agricultural prices (and in fact has done this). The Government further suggested that the
benefits of CMDP as a LIL could have a positive demonstration effect on the reform process.




__________________________
3
 Later study tours of foreign exchanges were funded by the project's TA component.




                                                       - 4 -

Involvement of Stakeholders and Beneficiaries: Stakeholder involvement was high. As part of work done
in support of the larger investment loan that had been considered earlier, there were extensive consultations
with a number of exchanges discussing the types of equipment and technical assistance they would need to
strengthen their operations. In 1997 and 1998, exchanges interested in becoming involved in the project
participated in several workshops in Ankara at which their preliminary investment plans were reviewed.
Although of course the scope of the CMDP was much smaller, these discussions established relationships
and an agenda for the new project.

Institutional Analysis: Institutional analysis was deficient. As explained further in the next paragraph and
section 7.6, a lack of familiarity with Bank procedures hindered initial project progress.

Readiness for Implementation: Readiness for implementation was deficient, and project start-up
encountered significant delays. While the project was approved in July 1998, it became effective in
February 1999, and the PIU was established only in February 2000. Neither of the two main participating
agencies, MIT and TOBB, had had any prior experience with Bank projects, which led to delays as they
learned Bank procurement and financial reporting practices.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall, the achievement of CMDP objectives was marginally satisfactory. While there were a number of
shortcomings, this ICR argues that most major relevant objectives were achieved, and that the magnitude
of the benefits outweighed the shortcomings. In particular, considerable benefit was achieved for a
relatively small investment. Further, as a LIL, the CMDP achieved a substantial demonstration effect that
will benefit future development of Turkish commodity exchanges and facilitate agricultural reforms.

To understand the satisfactory rating, for a project which disbursed only a third of its loan funds, one must
first understand that prior to the CMDP there were no scientifically based standards for grading wheat and
cotton in Turkey, no automated wheat sampling techniques as those instituted at CMDP participating
exchanges, and no trading of wheat on other than the basis of physical handling (and in particular, tasting)
by traders. Currently, modern trading of wheat and cotton in this major agricultural country is largely a
product of this small project.

The CMDP was successful in providing to participating exchanges a sophisticated vision of how a modern
commodity exchange functions. The exchanges then used this vision as a guide to the expansion of their
physical facilities and activities. Without the CMDP, this alternative vision of commodity exchange
functions would unlikely not have been implemented, and in any case, such a development would have
happened much later. Overall, the expanded knowledge of the participants was of much greater value than
the physical investments made with Bank funds. This is illustrated by the actions of Edirne, which invested
a total of US$220,000 of Bank funds (section 4.2), but which then invested a further US$2 million of its
own funds in new laboratory space, a trading floor, and other facilities in accordance with the more
sophisticated concept of exchange operations they acquired.

With regard to the example of an expanded vision of commodity exchange operations, executives of several
exchanges noted the model of the Memphis Cotton Exchange (which officials visited), with its structure of
a central exchange with decentralized collection points co-located with laboratories, weighbridges, and
licensed storage facilities--all linked by an automated data system to a trading floor, and with trading data
disseminated in near-real time by a variety of means. While the Turkish exchanges have not yet been able



                                                     - 5 -

to implement all parts of this model, several have made impressive progress during the CMDP.       4


Importantly, due to the progress made by the exchanges that participated in the CMDP, additional
exchanges have become interested in how they can upgrade their operations.

Objective (a): Increase marketing efficiency of grains and cotton through selected commodity
exchanges by introducing improved systems of price discovery, dematerialized trade, and regulatory
oversight.

l Market efficiency and price convergence: As part of the project impact evaluation (Component 3), an
    econometric study was performed using three years of daily price data for the three exchanges involved
    in wheat trading.  5 Dividing the exchanges into three pairs, it was determined that it can be expected
    that prices will converge, over time, for two pairs of exchanges at the 99% confidence interval, and for
    the third pair, at the 95% confidence interval. Convergence connotes greater market efficiency, but
    does not imply that prices will reach the same level, only that they will fluctuate in parallel, reflecting,
    e.g., geographic location. However, the study determined that no convergence was likely between
    Turkish exchanges and major foreign exchanges, apparently reflecting government intervention in the
    market (at least in the historical data that were analyzed).

l Increased customer satisfaction: As described in Table 1 below, surveys of exchange customers show
    that from 2000 to 2003, the proportion of customers increased that was satisfied with the accuracy of
    price information determined at the exchanges and with the efficiency of transmitting price
    information. During the same interval, an increased proportion of customers also reported that product
    weights were accurate and that off-exchange price information was available when needed. In contrast,
    the percentage of customers reporting that they could receive better prices away from the exchange
    decreased substantially.

l Perceptions of increased efficiency: Both buyers and sellers at the Polatli exchange report that the
    process is more efficient than it was earlier. Because the process has been automated, the "throughput"
    of vehicles and the processing of wheat is faster than it was earlier. Traders report that they spend less
    time per transaction, and because they have greater knowledge of the characteristics of each grain lot
    (due to uniform standards) have more confidence in the specific product they are trading. Polatli
    executives report that, as a result of the "vision" conveyed to them by the CMDP, using their own
    funds they are now working with a number of highly knowledgeable IT consultants to develop the
    infrastructure for futures and forward trading in the expectation that an adequate legal framework for
    these will be in place in the near future.

l Uniform national standards for wheat and cotton: As described in detail below (Component 2),
    quality standards for both grain and cotton were developed and promulgated under the project, and they
    now comprise accepted national standards for these crops. This was a major step forward in
    facilitating trading and enhancing market efficiency for these commodities, and is a major benefit
    produced by the CMDP.


________________________
4
 Some of the progress made resulted from the exchanges investing their own funds to upgrade their facilities in
accordance with the vision they developed during the project.
5
 This test used the Hodrick-Prescott filter methodology.




                                                       - 6 -

The goals of trading "dematerialized" commodities and improving government capacity for regulatory
oversight of commodity exchanges were not entirely achieved. Due to a dispute between the Ministry of
Industry and Trade (MIT) and the TA contractor for Component 2, the pilot implementation for
dematerialized trading and some of the legal studies were not completed. However, other studies and
contract deliverables, including the training of government staff, were completed and led to improved
government capacity for regulatory oversight of commodity exchanges and licensed warehouses. As
described below under Component 2, working groups were established and, with the contractor's
assistance, developed draft laws on Commodity Exchanges and on a WRS. At the time of ICR
preparation, this legislation is being reviewed by the Prime Ministry prior to being introduced in the
Parliament. Although the CMDP exchanges are taking tangible steps to prepare for dematerialized trade
and to utilize decentralized collection points, without the cognizant legal framework in place it is not yet
possible to "initiate implementation" of a WRS as envisioned in the project documents.

Objective (b): Demonstrate the benefits of increased private commodity marketing.

Customer Satisfaction: Enhanced customer satisfaction is a key benefit that can be provided by improved
private commodity marketing. Component 3 provided for project evaluation using surveys of exchange
customers. Three surveys were conducted: in 2000, 2002, and 2003, involving from 122 to 256
respondents who were customers of exchanges that were participating, or expected to participate, in the
project (a 5% random sample of all customers). On the basis of these surveys, it is evident that customer
satisfaction with participating exchanges increased during the period of the CMDP. As shown in Table
1, below, customers reported that, from 2000 to 2003:

l the accuracy of price information determined at the exchanges improved
l hygienic conditions at exchanges improved
l participant satisfaction with the exchanges improved
l trust in exchange operations increased
l off-exchange utilization of prices discovered at the exchanges increased
l wheat price information became easier to evaluate as the use of a reliable standard for grading became
    more widespread




                                                     - 7 -

Table 1: Customer Satisfaction with Exchange Performance, 2000, 2002, and 2003 (percent of
respondents agreeing)
(percent of respondents agreeing)                                 2000            2002        2003
1. Price information was available when needed                     79              81          87
2. Price information was accurately reported                       81              88          88
3. Exchange Prices accurately reflect value of their               57              81          89
product
4. Off-exchange price information was available when               69              87          84
needed
5. Price information is easier to evaluate if products are         80              87          93
graded using a reliable standard
6. Exchange provided regular data on country-wide prices           67              89          94
7. Products were accurately weighed at the exchange                86              94          96
8. Buyers and seller are treated fairly at the exchange            81              82          81
9. Exchange fees were too high                                     51              47          31
10. Respondents can receive better price away from the             57              37          19
exchange
11. Warehouses were clean and free of insects and                  61              64          65
rodents
12. Respondents who reported using prices reported at              60              76          81
exchange for off-exchange transactions
Source: SEMOR and Oklahoma State University, Final Wheat Report, May 2003.

More Effective Dissemination of Information: The transparency of grain trading in Turkey has increased
considerably over the term of the CMDP. As discussed in detail below under Component 1, participating
exchanges have greatly improved the dissemination of information on trades completed at their exchanges.
Using the internet, telephone "hot lines," and more traditional newspaper, television, and mail, in large
measure as a result of CMDP the four exchanges improved their dissemination of price, quantity, and other
data on trades at their own exchanges, and, in some cases trades at every other major grain exchange in
Turkey. Data on Turkish wheat prices from the Polatli exchange are distributed internationally by Reuters.


It should be noted that there has been a relatively short time in which the benefits of the CMDP could be
manifested, and then observed by others. Officials of the Konya exchange, among others, observed that the
results "are just beginning to show," and that the demonstration effect of the improvements will be
amplified over time.

Objective (c): Provide a model for development of other private exchanges, and impetus for
government to withdraw from its intervention in the marketing of other commodities.

l As noted earlier, Government is gradually withdrawing from intervention in commodity markets; from
    1998 to 2002 TMO grain purchases fell from 26% of the country's production to 5%. There are many
    factors motivating these actions, but among them is certainly the enhanced capability and efficiency of
    the country's private commodity exchanges.

l In 2000, the Polatli exchange drew grain lots from 10-12 provinces before restructuring their
    operations and upgrading their systems. Currently, with the new system operational for a year,
    management estimates that it is drawing product from a 300-km radius, comprising 60 provinces. This


                                                      - 8 -

    success has provided an impetus for exchanges which are "losing" market share to upgrade their
    facilities and processes.

l The Konya Exchange -- the largest for grain in the country -- made initial plans to invest under the
    project, but delayed implementing these plans. After seeing the success that the Polatli and Edirne
    exchanges achieved after upgrading their IT infrastructure and other facilities, in 2002 Konya elected
    to make the investments it had been contemplating.

l The Gaziantep Exchange (multi-commodity) was not at first considered for inclusion in the project.
    However, when it saw the benefits that the other exchanges were realizing, Gaziantep requested to be
    included, a request approved by the Bank and the Borrower, and a Loan Agreement and investment
    plan were submitted in November 2002. According to Gaziantep officials, what most attracted them
    was the ability to upgrade their IT, laboratory, and other infrastructure so that they could engage in
    futures and forward trading when the regulatory environment permits.

l Executives of participating exchanges have developed business plans, and in some cases have made
    physical investments (e.g., in storage facilities), in anticipation of the passage of legislation that will
    permit trading of dematerialized commodities.

l The Edirne Exchange reports that executives of 6 other Turkish exchanges (Antalya, Denizli,
    Canakkale, Nevsehir, Karacabey, Bandirma) have visited its new facility and have been provided with
    documents and plans (e.g., floorplans, schematics, IT system specifications) on its operations. A
    number of these exchanges are reported to be seeking funding to upgrade their operations.

4.2 Outputs by components:

1. Modernization Support to Commodity Exchanges

As shown below in Table 2, based on expressions of interest, seven commodity exchanges were initially
planned to be included in the project - five that principally traded grains and two that mainly traded cotton.
Of the seven, two did not present any investment plans, and so could not be included in the project. Three
others provided investment plans, but after expressing a clear interest in the CMDP, they either elected to
implement these plans with their own resources or did not invest at all. Of the remaining three exchanges,
two provided investment plans during the first iteration, and the third began participating later (Konya). A
fourth participating exchange, Gaziantep, not initially envisioned as a participant, was attracted by the
benefits it saw among participants and signed a subsidiary loan agreement and submitted its investment
plans in November 2002.




                                                       - 9 -

Table 2: Exchanges considered for CMDP participation
Exchange        Principal           Status in first     Status during      Final
                Commodity           stage of Project    Implementation     Participants
                Traded
1. Adana       Grain                Did not provide
                                    investment plans
2. Edirne       Grain               (1)                 (2)                 l
3. Eskisehir Grain                 Did not provide      Implemented
                                   investment plans     investments with
                                                        own funds
4. Izmir        Cotton             (1)                  Was not
                                                        considered
                                                        creditworthy**
5. Konya        Grain              (1)                  (2)                 l
6. Polatli      Grain               (1)                 (2)                 l
7. Sanliurfa    Cotton              (1)                 Did not invest
8. Gaziantep Cotton                 Not considered      (2)                 l
                                    at inception*
(1) Signed Letter of Intent to Borrow
(2) Borrowed and invested under project
l    Participant at Project Close
* Signed Loan Agreement November, 2002
**Izmir had made large IT investments (using its own funds, and not in connection with CMDP) in
contemplation of introducing futures trading, but suffered a loss on this project.

The Polatli and Edirne exchanges have begun to realize the benefits of their investment under CMDP, and
have evolved from registries of grain sales to the benchmark markets around which price formation for
grains in Turkey now takes place. These initial investments include IT equipment, laboratories, and
automated sampling equipment. These upgrades allow these 2 exchanges to conduct automated grain
sampling and electronic floor trading, with the results posted to their websites. The Konya exchange, the
largest for grain in the country, observed that Polatli and Edirne were attracting traders from a greater
distance, and so in 2002 elected to proceed with its initial investments.

The main achievements under this component included:

l Under the CMDP, the Polatli Exchange developed new laboratories, automated weighing and sampling
    devices, and an IT system that allows it to display key data on each trade (in near real time). (The
    automated truck weighing and sampling system for grain, and associated analytical laboratory, all
    common in developed countries, were the first in Turkey.) These include the type of wheat, physical
    and chemical characteristics, price and quantity traded; high, low, and average prices for the day, and
    cumulative volume; summaries for the previous few days and for the week; and wheat prices from all
    the other major exchanges in Turkey. The wheat lot is also assigned a grade based on the grading
    system established under the project. This information is disseminated using the internet (
    www.Polatliborsa.org.tr), by a telephone "hotline" with 12 dedicated telephone lines, and by mail.
    Hotline information is updated every 30 minutes. The website receives around 3,000 hits a month
    (annual average), with about 1,000 inquiries per day (telephone and internet combined) during the peak
    season. The exchange has also set up an electronic display panel in the central square of the town of
    Polatli that displays the same information as the display used on the exchange floor (with all the


                                                     - 10 -

    information noted above). Data on Turkish wheat prices from the Polatli exchange are distributed
    internationally by Reuters.

l Under the CMDP, the Edirne Exchange gained a much broader vision of the potential role it could
    play, and the exchange moved out of its cramped quarters in the center of town into a much larger
    facility (financed with its own funds). The new facility includes extensive storage facilities that are
    intended to be used as bonded warehouses when the legal framework for a WRS permits. The
    exchange installed a new trading floor, conference hall, and ancillary facilities. The CMDP financed
    new laboratory equipment that permits sophisticated chemical analysis and certification of each batch
    of wheat, a weighbridge, and IT hardware and software that permit the display of each trade on a
    screen in the trading room as well as on the exchange's website. The exchange estimates that the
    amount of time needed to process samples has been reduced by 2/3 as a result of the automated
    equipment purchased under the CMDP.

    While Edirne had a website prior to its participation in the CMDP, it substantially upgraded the site
    (www.etb.org.tr) after participating in the study tours. Currently, each trade is displayed, showing the
    type of wheat, quality grade, where it was grown, and price. Edirne's website also displays the same
    information for three other Turkish exchanges, as well (which information is obtained from Polatli).
    The exchange reported that in 2000 (before the site was upgraded) it received an average of 4,000 hits
    a month, but by 2002 it averaged around 7,000 to 8,000 hits per month. Edirne also disseminates trade
    information by telephone and by regularly providing information to the local press and television
    stations (updated daily).

l The Gaziantep Exchange was attracted to participate in the CMDP when it saw the benefits that the
    other exchanges were receiving. CMDP-supported investments included new laboratory facilities and
    equipment, a weighbridge, and the software and hardware necessary to link these together to increase
    efficiency. While greater efficiency was achieved, Gaziantep officials stated that the most important
    CMDP benefit was the broader vision of the functions of a commodity exchange that they gained,
    including bonded warehousing. The exchange disseminates price data on the internet, as well as
    mailing daily, weekly, and monthly data to its customers. Approximately 45% of the trading at
    Gaziantep consists of wheat, 22% cotton, with the remainder being a broad variety of agricultural
    products and livestock.

l Officials of the Konya exchange stated that the most important knowledge they gained from the CMDP
    were an understanding of WRS, the role that exchanges can play in warehousing generally, and futures
    and forward trading. As the other exchanges, they envision undertaking these functions when the
    regulatory environment permits. Konya used project investment funds to install sampling and
    instrumentation, new laboratories, and IT equipment. Konya officials commented that their
    observation of foreign exchange practices led them to believe that Turkey had too many agricultural
    laboratories, often sponsored by different agencies, which sometimes hindered the uniformity of
    assessment.

Loan Terms: Funds were loaned by the Bank to the Turkish Treasury at LIBOR plus 1.5 percent, with a
term of 17 years and five years grace. Treasury then on-lent funds to the Turkish Union of Chambers of
Commerce and Commodity Exchanges (TOBB) with a 0.25 percent service fee, and TOBB then provided
loans to exchanges at LIBOR plus 1.75 percent with an eight year term and two-year grace period. Each
exchange could borrow a maximum of US$1 million (in US dollars), and loans could be provided to
finance up to 70% of total project costs, with the remaining 30% financed by the exchange. The borrowers
assumed the foreign exchange risk. All repayments to date have been made in a timely manner.


                                                    - 11 -

Additional Benefits: The following benefits were also achieved under this component:

l The automated analysis of incoming grain lots has enabled the Polatli Exchange to establish a "grain
    damage map," showing the incidence of pests by specific locations. The exchange shares this
    information with the Ministry of Agriculture to help target their disease prevention services.

l In part as a result of the expanded vision of the role that an exchange can play, Edirne began an
    outreach and extension program (using its own funds). The exchange developed a handbook on soil
    and leaf analysis, which it distributes to farmers, and representatives visit growing areas to explain the
    function that the exchange can play in price discovery and quality certification.

2. Development of Trading Institutions and Strengthening of Oversight Capabilities

Initial Delays: Implementation of this component was substantially delayed. An initial delay in the start of
the one-year technical assistance contract was caused by personnel turnover in MIT generally, and on the
evaluation committee for this contract in particular. After MIT selected a contractor, initiation of the
contract was then opposed by the Ministry of Finance on the grounds that there was insufficient time for its
completion (within the original term of the project), as well as a shortage of counterpart funds to cover
MIT's 30 percent of the funding, the latter principally a result of the large depreciation of the Turkish Lira
in April 2001. (In the event, all required counterpart funds were provided) Later, the Ministry of Finance
opposed the training services that were to be provided under the project. The contract eventually became
effective in January 2002. The delays necessitated extending the closing date of the project by 24 months.

Achievements

Training: Training was provided for project stakeholders (staff of the government, exchanges, producers,
banks, and traders) on exchange operations, warehouse certification and inspection. Two study tours were
conducted to analogous facilities in Bulgaria and the U.S. (Memphis Cotton Exchange and Minneapolis
Wheat Exchange). As noted earlier, this training was highly successful in developing a sophisticated
vision of how a modern commodity exchange functions, and provided guidance for actions taken by
participating exchanges. The staff learned from the ability to observe the functioning of an operational
WRS, futures and forward trading, and the role that storage facilities can play.

Preparation of new legislation: A Working Group on warehouse receipts was formed with membership
including representatives from relevant government ministries, commodity exchanges, industry
associations, the Turkish Standards Institute, Turkish Union of Chambers of Agriculture, TMO, ASCUs,
and major private traders. The Working Group (initially with the assistance of the Japanese Grant and then
with the assistance of the contractor) developed a draft law on a WRS. MIT was also assisted to develop a
draft Commodity Exchange Law (to update Law 5590). The new Law 5590 would expand the permissible
functions of commodity exchanges to include such activities as forward and futures trading, and would
permit the exchanges to incorporate. At the time of ICR preparation, this legislation has been drafted and
is being reviewed by the Prime Ministry prior to introduction in the Parliament. Because the legal
framework is not yet in place, it was not possible to "initiate implementation" of a WRS as envisioned in
the project documents.

The delay in the start of the technical assistance contract had implications for other project goals, as
exchanges were understandably reluctant to invest in storage facilities (which investments could have been
funded by the project) as long as the country had not yet enacted legislation governing bonded warehouses.
Additional delays in investment by the exchanges was caused by the TOBB request, starting in April 2002,


                                                     - 12 -

that exchanges purchase bank guarantees for their loans (section 7.6). Although such guarantees would
have cost only around 2 percent of the loan amount, they caused several exchanges to delay or cancel
investment plans. (As explained below, TOBB dropped the guarantee request after about 6 months)

Quality Standards/Grades for grains and cotton: Working Groups were formed with representation from
relevant government ministries, industry associations, the Turkish Standards Institute, Turkish Union of
Chambers of Agriculture, TMO, and the ASCUs. These groups met and developed quality standards for
both grain and cotton, which were promulgated and now comprise accepted national standards for these
crops. The development of national standards was a major step forward in facilitating trading and
enhancing market efficiency for these commodities, and a major benefit achieved by the CMDP.

3. Project Impact Evaluation

This component was satisfactorily completed. Three surveys were conducted in 2000, 2002, and 2003,
reflecting the exchanges that were participating -- or expected to participate -- in the project:

l 2000 -- 256 respondents using Eskisehir, Polatli, Konya, Edirne, and Sanliurfa exchanges
l 2002 -- 143 respondents using Polatli, Konya, and Edirne exchanges
l 2003 -- 122 respondents using Polatli, Konya, and Edirne exchanges


The respondents comprised a random sample of approximately 5% of the users of the exchanges. As shown
in Table 1 and discussed earlier, above, customer satisfaction with the participating exchanges increased
during the CMDP.

Volume Traded at the Exchanges: As shown in Table 3, between 1998 and 2001, the volume of wheat
traded at the Polatli and Konya exchanges fell, while volume traded at the Edirne exchange increased. (It
should be noted that while the 2001 drought caused overall national production to fall by 7.7% compared to
2000, production in the provinces surrounding Polatli fell by 22%, in those surrounding Konya by 48%,
and in those surrounding Edirne by 25%.)

Table 3: Wheat Production and Sales, Nationwide and at Participating Exchanges (000s of tons)
                          1997             1998              1999               2000             2001
Nationwide              18,650            21,000             18,000            21,000            19,380
production
        Polatli          1,530             1,280             1,072             1,071              905
        Konya             851              1,417             1,645             1,781             1,046
        Edirne            88                 73               165               225               203
Source: SEMOR and Oklahoma State University, Final Wheat Report, May 2003

Interim Rating: It should be noted that starting in January, 2002, the project was rated "U" on
Implementation Performance, and was designated a "problem project." However, during calendar year
2002, strong management intervention facilitated a significant improvement in project performance (as
noted below, a QAG Quality of Supervision Assessment found supervision "satisfactory" overall, as well
as in all four assessment dimensions). Three participating exchanges (Polatli, Edirne, and Konya)
disbursed around half the loans allocated to them, and two additional exchanges prepared tenders for the
use of US$600,000 in loan funds. The Polatli and Edirne exchanges began to realize benefits from their
initial investments ($600,000 total, using $420,000 in loan funds) which enabled them to conduct
automated grain sampling and electronic floor trading, with results posted to their websites. By introducing



                                                     - 13 -

the grain quality grading standards adopted under the project and using automated sampling of grain
characteristics, these exchanges gained the confidence of the market in the accuracy and reliability of their
quality assessment of individual lots traded by them. As a result of this confidence and the ability to post
their results to web sites, these exchanges evolved from registries of grain sales to the benchmark markets
around which price formation in Turkish grain markets takes place.

In late 2002, the contractor finalized the draft Warehouse Receipt and Licensed Warehousing act along
lines that will modify the current Law 5590; this is currently being considered by Parliament. The firm
also conducted study tours for participating exchanges. Finally, TOBB dropped its request for a
counter-guarantee in November 2002, and the project rating was raised to "S" the following month.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional development impact was modest. The institutional strengthening of the exchanges was
significant, as they observed how sophisticated foreign exchanges worked, made investments based on this
vision (using their own funds as well as those from the project), and changed their organizations to operate
in a more sophisticated way. They also began to invest in systems that they will be able to use, after the
passage of legislation, to conduct futures and forward trading, and implement a WRS. The development of
quality standards and grades for wheat and cotton was also a major step forward in facilitating trading and
enhancing market efficiency for these commodities.

As noted above, the envisioned initial implementation of a WRS did not take place, owing to delays in
approving and signing the technical assistance contract for component 2, as well as in approving a new law
and regulations that would have permitted exchanges to invest in related facilities and systems.
Nevertheless, MIT officials gained knowledge of the role of private commodity exchanges, and by the end
of the project they had developed proper draft legislation concerning the WRS and the amendment of Law
5590. Currently, MIT is elaborating regulations which need to be issued regarding electronic warehouse
receipts and laboratories involved in the process.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no significant factors outside the control of MIT or TOBB which affected project
implementation or outcome.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

l Turkey's turbulent macroeconomic situation during much of the project caused some exchange
    investment plans to be halted or delayed. In particular, the large currency devaluation in April 2001,
    interrupted the implementation of several investments.
l The Ministry of Finance (MOF) delayed the signing of the technical assistance contract, arguing that
    there was not sufficient time in the original contract to complete the scope of work (the project was



                                                     - 14 -

     then extended). MOF also caused delays by opposing the use of project funds for training.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

l Delays in the establishment of the PIU (detailed below in sec 7.6), delay in signing a contract for
     technical assistance, and TOBB's demand for a "counter-guarantee" during much of 2002 all hindered
     project progress.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The project closed on March 30, 2003, two years later than originally planned. Total Bank disbursements
were US$1.42 million, around 40% of the amount envisioned. Most of the shortfall was explained by the
lack of physical investment for modernization (Component 1); 31% of the funds for this component were
disbursed, compared with 69% for development of trading institutions. Much of the shortfall can be
attributed to delay in passage of the law that would have permitted a WRS, which would have enabled
large additional investments. Thirty-six percent of the Bank funding (envisioned at appraisal) was
disbursed, 75% of the Borrower funding, and 30% of the expected investment from the exchanges.
Additional investment by participating exchanges was hindered by the TOBB request for a
"counter-guarantee," and by the country's turbulent macroeconomic conditions.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is considered as likely. The vision imparted by the project has energized the exchanges, and
they have developed business plans and invested (in most cases using their own funds) in facilities to
support this expanded concept. Another factor that makes the benefits more sustainable is the increased
satisfaction of customers (farmers, commodity users, traders) with the exchanges (Table 1). In the areas of
accuracy of price information, efficiency of transmission of prices, hygienic conditions, and overall
approval, customers of participating exchanges showed increased satisfaction with the participating
exchanges over the period of the project. These customers are likely to continue using these exchanges.
Sustainability is also enhanced by the reduction in TMO purchases, which bolsters the role of private
exchanges, and also by changes in government agricultural support policies generally.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Regular operations are essentially underway. The participating exchanges are regularly utilizing the
equipment and knowledge acquired during the project, and most of the envisioned benefits are being
realized as foreseen.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance was satisfactory.

As described earlier, on balance Quality at Entry was satisfactory. Noteworthy was the Bank's
unwillingness in the mid-1990s to go forward with a large investment loan for commodity exchanges until
there was a substantial improvement in policy. Readiness for Implementation and Institutional Analysis
were deficient, but other aspects of Quality at Entry were positive.


                                                    - 15 -

In retrospect, the project design would have been improved if the legal changes and institutional
strengthening had preceded the physical investments (see Lessons Learned). This would have permitted the
exchanges to make better use (e.g., in terms of facilities funded by the project) of what they learned during
the project.

7.2 Supervision:

Supervision was satisfactory.

As noted earlier, delays were encountered in implementation of some aspects of the project, and during
calendar year 2002, the project was rated "U" on Implementation Performance and was designated a
"problem project." However, management took strong corrective measures, implementation improved
significantly, and the project rating was raised to "S" in December 2002. This improved performance was
noted by the QAG Quality of Supervision Assessment, conducted in October 2002, which found
supervision "satisfactory" overall, as well as in all four assessment dimensions.

A number of exchange officials noted that devolution of project management to the Resident Mission
permitted a quick response to their requests for statements of "no objection" or other questions or
approvals. When it became clear that MIT and TOBB knowledge of procurement and financial
management was inadequate, RM staff provided training to maintain satisfactory project performance.
And Gaziantep officials were quite positive about how quickly their exchange was able to become a
participant, and have their investment plans approved, even though their application was submitted late in
the project (Gaziantep signed a loan agreement in November 2002).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Overall Borrower performance was unsatisfactory:

Preparation was satisfactory. In part because the Bank had worked extensively with the government on an
envisioned large investment loan, there were extensive consultations with exchanges and cognizant
agencies. However, even though PHRD funding was available, insufficient attention was placed on
preparing MIT and TOBB for their roles in the project, e.g., regarding procurement and project financial
management.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The government did not provide a macroeconomic environment conducive to the achievement of project
goals. The financial crises of November 2000 and February 2001--as well as the overall macroeconomic
turbulence--hindered some planned investment by the exchanges. In addition, the Ministry of Finance did
not fully support implementation of the technical assistance contract (which delayed that component), and
also opposed provision of training services under the contract.




                                                      - 16 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT) was the main executing agency, and the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) was located there. The PIU handled procurement for the overall project, e.g., the technical
assistance contract for Component 2, and the evaluation contract for Component 3. There were significant
delays in the establishment of the PIU, which became operational in February 2000, around one year after
the project became effective. These delays were caused by MIT's failure to assign dedicated staff to the
PIU in a timely manner, as well as by the agency's unfamiliarity with Bank procurement and financial
reporting procedures. Delays in the start of the one-year technical assistance contract were caused by
personnel turnover in MIT generally, and on the evaluation committee for this contract in particular.

In addition, a Project Administration Team at the Turkish Union of Chambers of Commerce and
Commodity Exchanges (TOBB), functioned as an intermediary between the PIU and the exchanges.
TOBB received funds directly from Treasury and was the on-lending agency for funds lent to exchanges.
TOBB concluded sub-project agreements with participating exchanges, guaranteed the loans, and
monitored disbursements and repayments.

Starting in April 2002, when it received a request for a sub-loan, TOBB began to request a
"counter-guarantee" from a commercial bank that guaranteed repayment to TOBB. This was not consistent
with the Loan Agreement, and the Bank (as well as several government agencies) requested TOBB to
withdraw this provision. However, TOBB maintained this position for around 6 months, and, although it
was ultimately rescinded, this caused the delay or cancellation of several investments by exchanges.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

As described in section 7.6, overall Borrower performance was assessed as unsatisfactory. The key factors
in this assessment were:

    l The poor macroeconomic environment, which impeded investment
    l Delay by MIT in establishing the PIU and in awarding the project's main TA contract
    l Delays in implementation of the technical assistance contract

8. Lessons Learned

l LILs may need a longer term to deal with uncertainties attendant to their innovative designs: The
    original term of the CMDP was 2 years, however, due to delays the project required 4 years to
    complete. LILs, in general, may need more time than investment projects of a similar scope and nature.

l The development of legislation and training of government staff should have preceded the
    investment component: While the exchanges were provided with a vision of how a modern commodity
    exchange works, as well as part of the funding needed to upgrade their operations, they have so far
    been unable to implement key parts of this vision involving physical investment (e.g., establishment of
    bonded warehouses, a WRS, and corporatization of the exchanges) in the absence of enabling
    legislation and better regulatory capacity.

l The PIU and necessary financial management systems should have been established prior to
    project effectiveness: As noted above, initial arrangements for staffing the PIU, as well as



                                                    - 17 -

        establishment of financial management systems and training in procurement were inadequate, which
        hindered project progress.

  l In a situation where major policy change is starting to occur, a small investment project can be
        highly leveraged and facilitate change: As noted earlier, the CMDP was implemented in lieu of a
        much larger investment project. For a small investment, the project facilitated policy change in the
        area of commodity markets, which in turn encouraged reforms in other areas (e.g., decreased
        government intervention in commodity markets).

    9. Partner Comments

    (a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    Comments from Ministry of Industry and Trade, Mr. Ali Gencler, General Director

                  T.C.                                   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

     SANAYI VE TICARET BAKANLIGI                 MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND TRADE

   I TICARET GENEL MDRLG               GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF DOMESTIC TRADE


REFERENCE          : B.14.0.ITG.015.UBGP.C3.PIU-
SUBJECT              : CMDP-draft ICR


                                             WORLD BANK
                                        Turkey Country Office
                                      Ugur Mumcu Caddesi 88
                                         MNG Ishani Kat:2
                                         06700 G.O.P/ANKARA
   Dear Sir,

   Please find our comments on the draft ICR of the Commodities Market Development
   Project 4376-TU as you requested in your letter dated Oct. 13 th, 2003.

1- We reviewed and found the ICR satisfactory and comprehensive in general.

2- With regard to the section 3.5/Readiness for Implementation : In general the things
written in that paragraph is correct but insufficient understanding the significance of the
project or insufficient explaining its importance at senior levels of implementing agencies
is also another main reason which leaded to delays at the beginning of the project.

3- With regard to the section 4.1-a/last paragraph: This paragraph is not completely true.
Due to the dispute between MIT and the TA contractor for the Component B of the Project,
pilot project implementation and some legislative studies were not completed and
submitted to MIT but other studies and deliverables including training for government staff
were completed and these lead to improving government capacity for regulatory oversight
of commodity exchanges and licensed warehouses. Although it has taken too much time
and caused to delays, at the end, mainly with the efforts of MIT-PIU staff very proper draft
laws defining the legal framework for the warehouse system and dematerialised trade



                                                      - 18 -

were successfully prepared and submitted to Prime Ministry in May 2003 for being
enacted.

4- With regard to the section 4.2.2/Achievements: The last sentence of the paragraph
"Training" should be omitted because training of government staff was performed even if it
was too late. In the paragraph "Preparation of new legislation", "... a draft Commodity
Exchange Law (to update Law 5590) as well as..." phrase should be omitted since the
Working Group just developed draft law on WRS. Later MIT itself developed another draft
law on 5590 and tax laws as it is needed to facilitate the functioning of WRS.

5- With regard to the section 4.5/Institutional development impact-2 nd paragraph: As it is
said so many times there has been delays in legislation and regulation studies but it
should be underlined that MIT as an implementing agency developed proper draft laws
as concerning the WRS and 5590-TOBB law and now working on the regulations needed
to be issued like laboratory, electronic warehouse receipt, establishment and organization
of specialized commodity exchanges, cotton and grain etc. in addition to the MIT
contribution to develop a wheat and cotton quality standards.

6- With regard to the section 5.2/Factors generally subject to government control. In fact
the factors which led to delays are outside the MIT. As you said TA bidding procedure
could not been completed on time by the opposition of Ministry of Finance. On the other
hand ACDI/VOCA, as the TA contractor, was unsuccessful to complete all the studies and
submit deliverables on time. For this reason, developing needed draft laws took much
more time as to planned, some TA contract deliverables were to be omitted and contract
terminated.

7- With regard to the section 7.2 and 7.3: Sometimes getting approval (no objection) of
the Bank takes too much time and lead to delays. On the other hand, making every step
subject to Bank's no objection especially in bidding procedures causes serious delays
and bureaucracy.

8- With regard to the section 7.4: There haven't been a problem regarding the
procurement and financial management of the project. This project is the first establishing
the computerized financial management system and producing the financial tables
automatically.

9- With regard to the section 7.7/Overall Borrower performance: The 2 sentences may be
changed as below.
 Delay by MIT in establishing the PIU and in awarding the project's main TA contract
due to the opposition of MOF.
 Delay in implementation of the TA contract due to late submitting of deliverables by the
contractor.

10- With regard to the section 8/Lessons Learned: As another lesson the sentence below
may be added.



                                              - 19 -

          "During a project design to guarantee and secure the counter finance (local
  finance), Ministry of Finance of that country should be invited and participate to project
  design and budget's formulation. This may also prevent awarding procedures from
  MOF's opposition and don't lead to any delays."

  11- With regard to the Annex 2/ Project Cost by Component: Some minor changes in
  figures are needed.
      Component                     Actual/Latest Estimate
      Modernization Support          1.34
      Dev. Of Trading Ins.           0.56
      Project Impact Evaluation      0.17

12- With regard to the Annex 2/ Project Financing by Component:
      Component                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    Bank           Govt.        CoF.
      Modernization Support          0.94                       0.40
      Dev. Of Trading Ins.           0.33          0.18
      Project Impact Evaluation      0.12          0.05
      PIU                            0.02          0.01


  Best regards,

                                                                      Ali GENLER
                                                                    General Director

  Kontrolr (PUB.Sat.Sor) :  S.KAYA ..../....
  Baskontrolr (PUB.Muh.Sor) :      M.AKAY ..../...
  Gen. Md.Yrd.(PUB Dan.Koor):C.GL ..../....




TOBB        (Union of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Maritime Commerce and
Commodity Exchanges of Turkey)


  No: 0532/40046
  Date: 10.11.03
  Subject: Commodity Exchanges Development Project


    To: The Undersecretariat of Treasury of the Prime Ministry of the Republic of Turkey


  Ref.: Your letter dated 24.10.2003, numbered B.02.I.HM.O.DE.01.02/19-B 2750




                                             - 20 -

Your captioned letter asks our Union to communicate its opinion in order to give final
shape to the "Implementation Completion Report" prepared by the World Bank in
connection with the Commodity Exchanges Development Project.

Said report has been considered and the matter whose correction is requested is
stated below:

In the assessment given under the title 7.6- "Executing Agency",

TOBB's demanding counterguarantee from participating exchanges is associated with
delaying of the project.

As is known, starting from the date when the business and investment plans of the
exchanges reached TOBB, the exchanges were invited to conclude a sub-loan
agreement and sub-loan agreements were made between the exchanges and our
Union. Particularly zmir Commodity Exchange wanted to utilize the loan it had obtained
in warehousing business investments but could not receive a positive response from
the World Bank and the Treasury Undersecretariat on this matter. Since zmir
Commodity Exchange did not receive a positive response, it could not utilize the loan.
The exchanges' demands to invest in the area of licensed warehousing business came
onto agenda towards the end of the year 2001, and such demands were promptly
forwarded by our Union to the Treasury Undersecretariat. After receipt of positive
responses from the Treasury Undersecretariat and the World Bank, the loan
amendment process started in mid-March 2002 under the knowledge of the
Undersecretariat. The commodities submitted their additional loan demands in the
same periods.

TOBB has requested a counterguarantee, in the form of a letter of guarantee, for the
additional loan in order to cause the investments planned by the exchanges in the field
of warehousing business to be made at the site concerned and, since a legal study in
the field of licensed warehousing business has not been completed, to ensure that the
loan demanded is not used in other areas. It should be added that the Exchanges have
not utilized the whole amount of the loans extended under the sub-loan agreements.

Said Report's associating TOBB's demand for counterguarantee for additional loans
with cancellation of the loans or alleging that TOBB's requiring a counterguarantee has
given rise to delaying of the investments to be made by the exchanges is not
considered to be a correct assessment.

You are kindly requested to be informed of the above.

Yours faithfully,

(signed)
smail KKSAL



                                           - 21 -

Secretary General

06/11/2003 M. Uludoan Exchanges Mgr. (initialled)
06/11/2003 O. F. Soysal Head of Chambers & Exchanges Dept. (initialled)
06/11/2003 O. Hamsiolu Deputy Secretary General (initialled)

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) For trade taking place at exchanges         Not projected, as survey results (which    --Volume of trade, 1997-2001, was available
participating under this project:               became available in May, 2003) were        for 3 participating exchanges: Polatli volume
--volume traded at participating exchanges      intended to evaluate the project over the  fell 30%, Konya rose 23%, and Erdine rose
--financial position of participating exchanges whole period                               130%.
--customer perceptions of performance                                                      --Real profits rose 133% at Polatli and 63%
                                                                                           at Konya from 1997 to 1999, the only years
                                                                                           for which data were available. During the
                                                                                           same interval, profits fell at Erdine by 42%.
                                                                                           --Customer perceptions of the performance
                                                                                           of participating exchanges with regard to
                                                                                           efficiency accuracy, and other key attributes
                                                                                           became significantly more positive from 2000
                                                                                           to 2003. (Random samples of around 5% of
                                                                                           exchange users; see ICR, Table 1).

(b) For off-exchange trade taking place within                                             --Proportion of respondents who reported
the catchment area of participating                                                        using prices reported at the exchange for
exchanges:                                                                                 off-exchange transactions rose from 60% in
--improved price discovery for participants in                                             2000 to 76% in 2002, and 81% in 2003 (ICR,
off-exchange trading                                                                       Table 1).

(c) In terms of market integration and price                                               --An econometric analysis was performed on
convergence between participating                                                          3 years of daily price data for the 3
exchanges:                                                                                 exchanges involved in wheat trading (using
--Econometric analysis to assess narrowing                                                 the Hodrick-Prescott filter methodology).
in price disparities                                                                       Dividing the exchanges into 3 pairs, it was
                                                                                           determined that it can be expected that prices
                                                                                           will converge, over time, for two pairs of
                                                                                           exchanges at the 99% confidence interval,
                                                                                           and for the third pair, at the 95% confidence
                                                                                           interval. Convergence connotes greater
                                                                                           market efficiency and implies that prices will
                                                                                           fluctuate in parallel, reflecting, e.g.,
                                                                                           geographic location.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                                  - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Modernization support to commodities exchanges                 4.00            1.34            34
Development of trading institutions and strengthening of       0.89            0.56            63
oversight capabilities
Project impact evaluation                                      0.17            0.17           100
Project Implementation Unit                                    0.20            0.04            20

Total Baseline Cost                                            5.26            2.11
 Physical Contingencies                                        0.23
 Price Contingencies                                           0.23
                         Total Project Costs                   5.72            2.11
                   Total Financing Required                    5.72            2.11


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                            0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00              0.00         4.29         0.00        4.29
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.00)         (0.00)     (3.00)
3. Services                         0.95              0.23         0.03         0.00        1.21
                                    (0.67)           (0.16)      (0.02)         (0.00)     (0.85)
4. Operational Costs                0.22              0.00         0.00         0.00        0.22
                                    (0.15)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.15)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                            1.17              0.23         4.32         0.00        5.72
                                    (0.82)           (0.16)      (3.02)         (0.00)     (4.00)




                                                  - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              1.34             0.00              1.34
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.94)            (0.00)           (0.94)
   3. Services                              0.49               0.18              0.00             0.07              0.74
                                           (0.33)             (0.12)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.45)
   4. Operational Costs                     0.00               0.00              0.04             0.00              0.04
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (0.03)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.49               0.18              1.38             0.07              2.12
                                           (0.33)             (0.12)            (0.97)            (0.00)           (1.42)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Modernization support to        3.00                      1.30        0.94                    0.40       31.3               30.8
commodities exchanges
Development of trading          0.71         0.24                     0.33         0.18                  46.5      75.0
institutions and
strengthening of oversight
capabilities
Project impact evaluation       0.15         0.07                     0.12         0.05                  80.0      71.4
Project Implementation          0.15         0.07                     0.02         0.01                  15.3      14.3
Unit




                                                           - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/1996                     7    TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER,
                                               COMMODITY MARKET
                                               SPECIALIST (2), ECONOMIST
                                               (3)
              08/1996                   10     COMMODITY MARKET
                                               SPECIALIST (5), TASK TEAM
                                               LEADER, OPERATIONS
                                               OFFICER, PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST,
                                               AGRICULTURAL
                                               ECONOMIST
              05/1997                     4    AGRICULTURAL
                                               ECONOMIST, COMMODITY
                                               MARKETING SPECIALIST,
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER,
                                               ECONOMIST


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/1997                     6    ECONOMIST,
                                               COMMODITY
                                               MARKETING
                                               SPECIALIST,
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER,
                                               INFORMATION SYSTEMS
                                               SPECIALIST,
                                               COMMODITY TRADING
                                               SPECIALIST,
                                               AGRICULTURAL
                                               ECONOMIST


 Supervision
              Project Effective
              2/26/1999

              02/08/1999                  4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               COMMODITY ECONOMIST
                                               (1); COMMODITIES TRADING
                                               SP (1)
              12/10/1999                  2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                               COMMODITY MARKETS
                                               SPEC (1)
              04/26/2000                  2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S



                                                - 27 -

                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
               06/05/2001              4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            COMMODITY MARKETING
                                            SP (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                            ANALYST (1)
               12/13/2001              1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)              U    S
               05/24/2002              5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             U    S
                                            SENIOR ECONOMIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL MGT.SPEC.
                                            (1)
               10/29/2002              4    TTL, SR. AG ECONOMIST (1);        S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL MNGMT
                                            SPEC. (1)
               10/29/2002              4    TTL, SR. AG ECONOMIST (1);        S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL MNGMT
                                            SPEC. (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            75.1                         255.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 20.8                           73.7
  Supervision                           62.8                         129.5
  ICR                                     2.4                          35.3
  Total                                161.4                         494.4




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Evaluation of the Cotton Standards and Grading System in Turkey and Recommendations for
Improvement
2. Information Technology at the Commodities Exchange of Turkey, research paper (Kramer)
3. Amendment to the Loan Agreement to include Gaziantep Exchange
4. Legal Report on Turkey's Agricultural Warehouses
5. The Polatli Grain Exchange -Spot Market in Polatli, and other documents available on the
Polatli Grain Exchange's website (www.polatliborsa.org.tr)
6. QAG Review on Quality of Supervision
7. CMDP - Final Evaluation Report, SEMOR and Oklahoma State University




                                            - 31 -

- 32 -

