Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4376 TU
Loan Agreement
(Commodities Market Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 31, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4376 TU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997, with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
In Section 9.07, subparagraph (c) is modified to read:
“(c)
Not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing Date or such 
later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, 
the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and 
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be 
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of 
their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the 
Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“MIT” means the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Borrower;
(b)
“Participating Exchanges” means the Polatli, Konya, Eskisehir, Izmir, 
Sanliurfa, Edirne and Adana Commodity Exchanges of the Borrower;
(c)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within MIT 
pursuant to Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement;
(d)
“Project Administration Team” means the team to be established within 
TOBB pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
“Steering Committee” means the Committee to be established pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by TOBB (as 
hereinafter defined), financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a Participating 
Exchange for a Sub-project;
(h)
“Sub-project” means a specific investment project for a productive 
activity, to be carried out by a Participating Exchange utilizing the proceeds of a 
Sub-loan;
(i)
“Sub-loan Agreement” means any agreement entered into between TOBB and a 
Participating Exchange pursuant to paragraph 1 (c) of Section I to the Annex to 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules supplemental to the Sub-loan Agreement; and
(j)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and TOBB, pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement for the 
implementation of Part A of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(k)
“TOBB” means Union of Chambers of Commerce, Industry and Maritime 
Commerce and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey established by Law No. 5590 of the 
Borrower, dated March 15, 1950.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
million Dollars ($4,000,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by TOBB on account of 
expenditures made by a Participating Exchange under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Sub-project financed under Part A 
of the Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; 
and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts B and C of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2001, or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on March 15 
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: 
(i)
shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project through MIT, with due 
diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, 
agricultural, environmental, and 
technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for 
Parts B and C of the Project; and 
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under 
this Agreement, shall cause TOBB to carry out Part A 
of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, 
financial, agricultural, environmental 
and technical practices, and shall take 
or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable TOBB to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts B and C of the Project and cause TOBB to carry out Part A of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with TOBB under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank including, without limitation, the terms and 
conditions set forth in Section I of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank may from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Page  5
Termination; Effective Date
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and TOBB, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b)
the PIU has been established to coordinate Project related activities and 
a manager, advisory group coordinator, procurement specialist and an accountant, with 
qualifications, terms of reference and experience satisfactory to the Bank, have been 
appointed; and
(c)
MIT has entered into an agreement with an agency for carrying out Part C 
of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02.  The following is an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions 
to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly 
executed by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon them in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Mustesarligi
Inonu bulvari
Emek-Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Cable address: 
Telex:
821-42285(MLYE-TR) or
821-42689(ANK-TR)
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  6
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ S. Akman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ F. Temple 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equvalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-loans under Part
    2,800,000
70% of amounts
A of the Project
disbursed
(2)
Consultants' services
      620,000
70%
and training under
Part B of the Project
(3)
Consultants' services
      120,000
70%
under Part C of the
Project
(4)
Incremental operating
      140,000
70%
costs under Parts B
and C of the Project
(5)
Unallocated
      320,000
total
    4,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “incremental operating costs” means 
the incremental expenses incurred by the PIU on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including salaries for staff hired for the Project, office 
supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;
(b)
in respect of any payments under Category (1), unless the Sub-loan has 
been made in accordance with the procedures and on terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Section II of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
Page  7
(c)
in respect of any payments under Category (1), unless the Project 
Administration Team has been established within TOBB, and a Sub-project coordinator, 
an accountant and a procurement specialist with qualifications, terms and reference 
and experience satisfactory to the Bank, have been appointed.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for works under contracts costing 
less than $1,500,000 equivalent; (ii) for goods under contracts costing less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent; (iii) for incremental operating costs costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and (iv) for services under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent for the employment of consulting firms, and under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent for the employment of individual consultants, under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase the marketing efficiency of 
grains and cotton through selected commodity exchanges by introducing improved systems 
of price discovery, dematerialized trade, and regulatory oversight; and (b) 
demonstrate the benefits resulting from increased private commodity marketing.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Modernization Support
Establishment and operation of a credit facility through TOBB to make Sub-loans 
to Participating Exchanges for the financing of Sub-projects.
Part B:
Institutional Support
Provision of training and technical assistance to MIT to: (a) introduce uniform, 
internationally compatible quality standards for cotton and wheat; (b) design and 
initiate the implementation of a warehouse receipt system; (c) improve market 
surveillance and supervision of commodity exchanges; and (d) establishment of a 
communication network linking commodity exchanges.
Part C:
Impact Evaluation
Provision of consultants’ services to: (a) prepare baseline and expert survey of 
users of exchange services, including indicators of increased usage and improved 
efficiency of operation at the level of exchanges; and (b) monitor market integration 
among Participating Exchanges.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Page  8
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
Page  9
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh 
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each 
installment shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after March 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  10
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works procured under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$1,500,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods procured under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Commercial Practices
Goods procured under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract shall be procured at a reasonable price, account being taken 
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of 
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract procured under Part B of this 
Schedule; and (ii) the first contract procured under Part C.1 of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contracts procured under Parts C.2 and 3 of 
this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services under Parts B and C of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedure for the Selection of Consultants
Commercial Practices
Services to assist Sub-borrowers in carrying out Subprojects under Part A of the 
Project and estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
Page  12
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
For the purposes of overall coordination and supervision of the Project 
execution, the Borrower shall maintain at all times during the execution of the 
Project the PIU with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and with 
staff whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference are satisfactory to the 
Bank. The PIU shall take all measures necessary to coordinate with the Steering 
Committee during the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about October 31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 1999, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
3.
MIT shall not later than October 31, 1999, establish and thereafter maintain: 
(a) an exchange oversight department; (b) a quality grades inspection department; and 
(c) a warehouse licensing and inspection department with qualified staff and adequate 
resources.
4.
The Borrower shall not later than March 31, 1999, establish and thereafter 
maintain the Steering Committee consisting of, inter alia, the representatives of the 
State Planning Organization, Undersecretariat of Treasury, MIT, the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, Turkish Grain Board, 
and TOBB, to provide policy guidance and monitor Project implementation.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
Section I.
Principal Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall enter 
into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with TOBB whereby TOBB shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out its activities under Part A of the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and 
practices, with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers and to provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the purpose;
(b)
maintain at all times during the execution of Part A of the Project the 
Page  13
Project Administration Team with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Bank and the Borrower, and staff with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower;
(c)
relend to Participating Exchanges, out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the amount of financing required for its respective 
Sub-project under a Sub-loan Agreement (the Sub-loan Agreement) to be entered into 
between TOBB and the Participating Exchange, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, which shall include, without limitation, the terms and conditions set 
forth in Section II of this Annex to Schedule 5;
(d)
exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-loan in such manner as to 
protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan;
(e)
not assign, amend or waive any of its agreements providing for Sub-loans, 
or any provision thereof, without prior approval of the Borrower and the Bank; 
(f)
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying 
out by the Participating Exchanges of Sub-projects in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower;
(g)
in respect of repayments made by the Participating Exchanges under the 
respective Sub-loans upon receipt of each such repayment, credit the same to the 
account of the Borrower maintained for the purposes of the Project;
(h)
in the event that a Participating Exchange fails to make payment of 
principal or interest or any other amount due, within ninety (90) days of the due date 
of such payment, pay such amount to the account of the Borrower maintained for the 
purposes of the Project;
(i)
(i) exchange views with, and furnish all such information to, the Bank, 
MIT and the PIU, as may be reasonably requested by the Bank, MIT and the PIU with 
regard to the progress of its activities under the Project and the performance of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (ii) promptly inform MIT or the 
PIU of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
its activities under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(j)
(i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; (ii) have its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii) 
furnish to the Borrower as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) 
months after the end of each such year, certified copies of said financial statements 
and accounts for such year as so audited, and the report of said audit by said 
auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iv) furnish to the Bank and the Borrower such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank 
or the Borrower shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section II.  Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall:
(a)
be denominated and repayable in Dollars (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on 
account of the costs of goods, works and services financed out of such proceeds for 
Sub-loans under Part A of the Project; and
(b)
not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be:
Page  14
(a)
charged a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Sub-loan not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equivalent to one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum;
(b)
charged quarterly, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, an interest rate  equal to the rate payable by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%); 
(c)
made for a maximum period of eight (8) years including a maximum grace 
period not exceeding two (2) years; and
(d)
charged a prepayment premium at a rate equivalent to one percent (1%) of 
any amount prepaid by the Participating Exchange.
3.
No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan unless:
(a)
the first and the third Sub-loans made to Participating Exchanges shall 
have been approved by the Bank; and
(b)
the Participating Exchange has been required and agreed to finance at 
least thirty percent (30%) of the proposed cost of the Sub-project. 
4.
When presenting a Sub-loan for approval, the Participating Exchanges shall 
furnish to TOBB an application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
together with:
(a)
a business plan, including recent and projected financial statements of 
the Participating Exchange;
(b)
an investment plan and a procurement plan which describes, quantifies and 
costs in detail the investments and their procurement under the Sub-project; and
(c)
any such other information as TOBB shall reasonably request.
5.
Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined to be:
(a)
technically feasible and economically and financially viable; and
(b)
in compliance with all environmental laws and standards of the Borrower.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby TOBB shall obtain, by written contract 
or other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its interest and those of the 
Borrower and the Bank, including the right to:
(a)
require the Participating Exchange to carry out the Sub-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, economic, 
financial and commercial practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for the 
purpose;
(b)
require that the goods, works and consultants services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan be procured in accordance with provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, and use of such goods, works and services be exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank or the 
Borrower if the Bank or the Borrower shall so request, the sites, plans and 
construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;
 (d)
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practices;
Page  15
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Participating Exchange and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Sub-project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Participating Exchange to the use 
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Participating Exchange to perform 
its obligations under its Sub-loan Agreement with TOBB.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
Page  16
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
