Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15184
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2827-IN)
DECEMBER 21, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
South Asia Country Department IT
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES AND ABBREVIATIONS
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
Exchange Rage used in the Staff Appraisal Report Rs 13.0 =US$1
Year                  Rupees/US$
1987                     12.96
1988                     13.92
1989                     16.23
1990                     17.50
1991                     22.74
1992                     25.90
1993                  26.20/30.50
1994                     31.40
1995                     32.30
Average Rate dunrng project implementation period: US$  Rs 22.0
Govemment of India, KPC, and KEB Fiscal Year: April I - March 31
Measures and Equivalents
I Hectare (ha)                   =   10.000 m' = 2.471 acres (ac)
I Kilovolt (kV)                  =   1.000 volts (V)
I Kilovolt ampere (kVA)          =  1,000 volt amps
I Gigawvatt-hour (GWh)               1.000,000 kilowatt-hours
I Horse Power (HP)               =  0.75 kilowatts (kW)
I Crore (Cr)                     =  10 million
I Lakh                           =  0.  million
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEA       Central Electricity Authority                 KEB    Karnataka ElectricitV Board
CWC       Central Water Commission                      KPC      Kamataka Power Corporation
GO]       Government of India                           NTPC   National Thermal Power Corporation
GOK       Government of Karnataka                       PAF      Project Affected Families
IBRD      Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and      POE      Panel of Experts
Devclopment                                  R&R    Resettlement and Rehabilitation
ICB       Intemational Competitive Bidding              SEB      State Electricity Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2827-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION     SUM M ARY               ......................................................... .i
PART I    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Evaluation   of  Objectives  ...............................................1
Achievement of Objectives ..............................................3
M ajor Factors  Affecting  the  Project    ..............................................  4
Summary of the Development on the Issues after Loan Cancellation ............... 8
Sustainability ...............................................8
Bank Group Performance ...............................................9
Borrower Performance ..............................................                 10
Key Lessons Learned ...............................................11
PART H    STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1           Summary of Assessments
Table 2           Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3           Project Timetable
Table 4           Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5           Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6           Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7           Studies included in Project
Table 8           Project Costs and Financing
Table 9           Project Economic Evaluation
Table 10          Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11          Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12          Bank Resources: Bank Missions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.          |



A9



INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2827-IN
IMPLEMENTATION COMtPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Karnataka Power Project in
India, for which the Bank approved a loan (Ln. 2827-IN) of US$ 330 million equivalent on June
4, 1987. The loan became effective on April 6, 1988. The loan was made to the Government of
India (GOI) and on-lent through the Government of Karnataka (GOK) to the Karnataka
Electricity Board (KEB), and to the Karnataka Power Corporation (KPC). The loan was
scheduled to be closed on December 31, 1995.
At GOI's request, US$70 million equivalent from the loan amount was canceled on
December 5, 1991, because of anticipated savings in project costs due to the devaluation of the
Rupee. Later on, because of continued failure on the part of GOK, KPC and KEB to comply with a
number of key covenants, the Bank suspended disbursements on April 8, 1993. No adequate
remedial actions were taken by GOK, KPC and KEB. The Bank therefore canceled on August 1,
1993 the remaining funds for the part of the project executed by KPC, and on October 25, 1993 the
balance of funds for the part of the project executed by KEB. The total amount disbursed from the
loan proceeds was about US$69.6 million equivalent. The loan account was closed on December 16,
1993.
The ICR was prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division, Country
Department II, South Asia Regional Office.
This ICR is based on the material in the project files, on discussions with the officials of GOI,
GOK, KEB and KPC, and on information obtaned during the ICR mission to India in September
1994, including a visit to several project sites.






INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2827-lN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    The Bank Group has been involved in the Indian power sector since 1950. Through 1987,
it made 22 loans and 18 credits to finance 36 projects. These projects contributed to
improvement in the supply of electricity to the country as a whole, but t}-Ey achieved little in terms
of resolving several long-standing sector wide problems at the state level in areas such as tariffs,
institutional development and power systems planning. In part, this lack of success of addressing
state power sector problems was attributable to the fact that most of the Bank projects were
executed by central government-owned institutions such as the National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC), whereas electricity
production and distribution is primarily the responsibility of the State Electricity Boards (SEBs).
With electricity on the concurrent list of the Indian Constitution, the authority of the central
government over the state power sector is limited.
ii.    OED reports on earlier completed projects also highlighted these difficulties of effecting
institutional improvements at the state level without a close working relationship between the
Bank and the beneficiary SEBs. The Karnataka Power Project was one of the projects where the
state power sector entities were the beneficiaries and in which an attempt was made to address
tariff, financial and institutional issues directly at the state level.
Proiect Objectives and Components
iii.   The principal project objectives were to alleviate power shortage in the state of Karnataka
and the southern region by exploiting hydro resources, to provide efficient transmission capacity,
and to effect institutional, operational and financial improvements in the two power utilities of the
state. The Bank loan of US $330 million equivalent was made to GOI for on-lending through the
Government of Karnataka (GOK) to the Karnataka Electricity Board (KEB), and to the
Karnataka Power Corporation (KPC) the two state-owned utilities responsible respectively for
power generation and power transmission and distribution. The project comprised: (a) two
hydroelectric schemes (Kadra, 3x5OMW, and Kodasalli, 3x40MW) and the associated
resettlement and rehabilitation of the project affected people; (b) construction of some 870km of
400kV and 220kV transmission lines and the associated substations, (c) renovation of an existing
hydro-electric power plant; and (d) several engineering and institutional development studies.



- 11 -
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.    The various project components were envisaged to be implemented over a period of about
8 years, but from the very beginning significant delays occurred. By early 1993, project
implementation for most components was at least 2 to 3 years behind the appraisal schedule. This
included the resettlement and rehabilitation of families affected by the two hydro electric power
stations largely because of difficulties in acquiring adequate land for the resettlement colony. By
mid-1993, virtually no one had been re-settled. Furthermore, throughout project implementation
period, the two utilities failed to achieve the stipulated financial covenants largely because of
inadequate tariff increases and poor bill collection. The financial problems were aggravated
because of the absence of adequate budgetary support for implementing KEB's and KPC's
investment programs and GOK's decision in 1992 to abolish the already subsidized tariff to the
largest consumer group i.e., agricultural consumers, without providing the cash compensation
KEB was entitled to under the provisions of the Electricity Act.
v.    The Bank had overestimated the capacity of both KEB and KPC to implement the project.
The problem was compounded by the premature Board presentation of the project. Many of the
project components were at early stages of preparation; the necessary government clearances had
not yet been obtained and no agreement had been reached on the terms of reference for any of the
major institutional studies to be undertaken. Government and political interference in the day-to-
day operations of the utilities was rampant. Ultimately, the inability of GOK to ensure that KEB
and KPC could achieve a reasonable level of financial viability and the resulting inability to finance
their share of the project, was a major factor in the Bank's decision to first suspend and then
cancel the loan
vi.   From 1990 onwards, the Bank gave repeated warnings to the GOK and the agencies
concerned that it would suspend disbursement unless adequate remedial actions would be taken to
comply with the Bank's covenants. Eventually, on April 8, 1993, the Bank suspended
disbursements, and in the absence of adequate remedial measures, the loan was canceled on
October 23, 1993. Only US$69 million equivalent from the loan amount was disbursed. The
overall outcome of the project was highly unsatisfactory and virtually none of the project
objectives was achieved.
Key Lessons Learned
vii.   Several important lessons can be drawn:
* Project Design. The project was to be implemented over an eight year period and with the
exception of the two hydro-electric stations, most of the required government clearances for
the transmission line components had not yet been obtained, bid documents had not yet been
prepared and there was no agreement on the terms of reference for the various studies to be
financed under the project. For many of the project components preparation had not been
sufficiently advanced to warrant approval of a loan. In the light of the experience with this
project as well as others in India, standard Bank practice for India's projects is now that
required government clearances are obtained before Board approval. Invitations for
consulting services and bid documents should be ready to be issued when a loan is presented



- iii -
to the Board. The use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility to better prepare the project
would have been appropriate in this case.
Project Management. The appraisal mission had overestimated the capacity of the
executing agencies to implement the project not only on technical matters, but also for the
implementation of the resettlement and rehabilitation plan for people affected by the
construction of Kadra and Kodasalli power stations. Project management capabilities should
have been more rigorously assessed and the project management organization designed
accordingly. The Bank should have insisted with the executing agencies to avail themselves
of independent advice to strengthen project implementation capabilities.
* Lack of Autonomy. Even though Karnataka was a pioneer in "unbundling" by separating
generation from transmission and distribution, KPC is an example that simply incorporating
the state electricity board (or functional parts of it) is not sufficient to guarantee adequate
operational autonomy. In the case of KPC, the Board of Directors is chaired by the Chief
Minister or his Deputy and board members are all civil servants. The Managing Director has
limited authority and most key decisions still need to be referred to GOK for approval.
*  Support from both GOI and GOK for the project was inadequate. Administrative
procedures from GOI agencies and departments to obtain approval of tender documents,
import licenses and foreign exchange were cumbersome, and demands from the Central
Electricity Authority were often onerous. Successive changes in GOK and in its leadership
resulted in frequent changes in the top management of the utilities. Required tariff revisions
were not granted, electricity bills from government departments and undertakings were
seldom paid in time and budgetary support was inadequate. This situation prevailed despite
the fact that GOI and GOK were signatories to the legal agreements. The failure of this
project has helped to shape the Bank's current thinking that without introducing fundamental
changes such as the creation of an independent regulatory authority, tariff reforms,
incorporation of the power sector activities and privatization of distribution, it would be
difficult to insulate the state power sector from political interference, create creditworthy
entities and operate the sector on a commercial basis. This new approach is already reflected
in the design of Bank state power sector operations currently being prepared in India.
Onlending Arrangements were sub-optimal, the executing agencies had no direct access to
the Special Account and the arrangement provided few incentives for the implementing
agencies to accelerate project implementation. The effectiveness of the onlending
arrangements for executing agencies at the state level should be reviewed. Financial
covenants should have been more focused on providing the utilities with adequate cash
resources to conduct their operations and contribute to their investment program from their
own resources. No assessment was carried out to assess GOK's ability to provide the
required budgetary support.
* Financial performance. In a situation where agreed financial targets, even if required by law
(such as the minimum 3% rate of return after interest target specified in the Electricity Act)
are not respected by the political decision makers, measures need to be introduced before loan
approval to create an appropriate regulatory environment to ensure the creditworthiness of the



- iv -
power sector entities and which would prevent the government from disallowing tariff
increases for political reasons. In the case of India, this requires amendments in the existing
electricity legislation.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Evaluation of Obiectives
Introduction
1.    The Bank Group has been involved in the Indian power sector since 1950. Through 1987,
it made 22 loans and 18 credits to finance 36 projects. These projects contributed to
improvement in the supply of electricity to the country as a whole, but they achieved little in terms
of resolving several long-standing sector wide problems at the state level in areas such as
inadequate tariffs, institutional development and power systems planning. In part, this lack of
success of addressing state power sector problems was attributable to the fact that most of the
Bank projects were executed by central government-owned institutions such as the National
Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and the Rural Electrification Corp.ration (REC), whereas
electricity production and distribution is primarily the responsibility of the State Electricity Boards
(SEBs). With electricity on the concurrent list of the Indian Constitution, the authority of the
central government over the state power sector is limited.
2.    OED reports on earlier completed projects also highlighted the difficulties of effecting
institutional improvements at the state level without a close working relationship between the
Bank and the beneficiary SEBs. The Karnataka Power Project was the fifth project where the
state power sector entities were the beneficiaries and in which an attempt was made to address
taiiff, financial and institutional issues directly at the state level.
Objectives
3.    The principal objectives of the Karnataka Power Project were to:
(a) help alleviate the power shortage in Karnataka by exploiting hydro resources in
the state;
(b) strengthen the state transmission system to evacuate power from the Kalinadi
power complex and reduce system losses,
(c) extend the life of the Sharavathi power station, optimize generation from the
Kalinadi complex, and prepare plans fro more efficient distribution,
(d) effect institutional, operational and financial improvements in the state's two
power utilities and;
(e) progress towards more efficient use of the Southern region's generation facilities.
4.    The project, a part of the least cost expansion program for the southern region,
comprised: (a) construction of a part of the Second Stage of the Kalinadi Hydro-power System,
i.e., two hydroelectric schemes, Kadra (3x5OMW) and Kodasalli (3x40MW), and the resettlement
and rehabilitation (R&R) of project affected families (PAF) and compensatory afforestation; (b)



- 2 -
construction of some 870 km of 400kV and 220kV transmission lines, and the associated
substations; (c) renovation of an existing (Sharavathi) hydroelectric power station; and (d) several
engineering and institutional development studies.
5.    The total project cost estimated at appraisal at was US$947 million equivalent, and the
project was scheduled for completion by December 1995. The loan of US$330 million was made
to the Government of India (GOI) and the proceeds were to be on-lent through the Government
of Karnataka (GOK) to the Karnataka Electricity Board (KEB) and to the Karnataka Power
Corporation (KPC). The Kuwait Fund financed some of the components of the Kadra scheme.
Evaluation
6.    The physical objectives were fully justified at the time of appraisal. As with the rest of the
country, the power system in Karnataka was incapable of meeting the ranidly growing demand,
resulting in frequent power cuts and voltage drops, and forced many industries to invest in captive
power plant. The problems were aggravated by high system losses, arising from inadequate
maintenance and investment in transmissionl and distribution systems commensurate with the
growth in generation facilities. The institutional and financial objectives of the project focused at
commercialization and strengthening of the financial position of the two state utilities, albeit
within the framework of the prevailing electricity legislation in India
7.    The SAP, stated that the construction of the physical components involved proven
technology and that KPC and KEB had adequate experience and capability to implement their
respective components, except for the 400kV lines, hence only a limited provision for technical
assistance was made under the loan. During the Board discussion, concern was expressed that the
Government of Karnataka (GOK) did not have a satisfactory record on handling the R&R
matters, as there had been major problems in the case of Upper Krishna Project (Cr. 788-IN).
The SAR, however, stated that KPC's handling of R&R matters on Kalinadi Stage I (a non-Bank
Project) had been satisfactory and the resettlement of about 9,000 people was reported to be "just
about complete." The Bank project would displace about 2,000 people (544 families) and it was
the first time that a Bank assisted power project in India included financing of R&R costs.
8.    The SAR stated that the project components formed part of the least cost investment
program for the southern Region and that the benefits of the components of the project could not
be separated from those of other investments in the power system. Therefore, a cost-benefit
analysis of the least cost expansion program for the Southern Region was carried out. Using a
standard conversion factor of 0.8, the internal economic rate of return (IERR) was estimated at
4%. It was recognized that the low return was a reflection of the low level of tariffs in the
Southern region and below the opportunity cost of capital. H lowever, taking into account an
estimate of the willingness to pay, related to ihe cost of autogeneration for industrial and
agricultural consumers, the IERR was calculated at 12%0. The SAR did not include a
comprehensive risk analysis. As the project was cancele(i before most components were
completed and neither KPPC or KEB was able to provide an update of funding required to
complete the various project components, the EIRR could not be recalculated. At this point no
economic benefits can be attributed to the project.



-3-
Achievement of Objectives
9.    Almost none of the project objectives were achieved, because only very few of the project
components were physically completed and most of the recommendations of the institutional
development studies were never implemented. The only exceptions are the renovation of the
existing Sharavathi hydro-electric power station and some improvements in bill collection in the
later years of the project.
10.   The most important factors for not achieving the project objectives were as follows:
*   Project Design. The project was to be implemented over an eight year period and with the
exception of the two hydro-electric stations, most of the required Government clearances for
the transmission line components had not yet been obtained, bid documents had not yet been
prepared and there was no agreement on the terms of reference for the various studies to be
financed under the project. For a large part of the project, preparation had not been
sufficiently advanced to warrant approval of a loan.
*   Project Management. As documented by supervision missions shortly after Board
approval, the appraisal mission had overestimated the capacity of the executing agencies to
implement the project not only on technical matters, but also for the implementation of the
resettlement and rehabilitation plan for people affected by the construction of Kadra and
Kodasalli power stations. As a result the project management organization was
underdesigned.
*  Lack of Autonomy. Karnataka was a pioneer in unbundling by creating a separate entity for
generation, KPC, in 1971. It was the successor of the Hydro Electric Construction
Department, but later it operated thermal stations as well. KPC's Board of Directors is
chaired by the Chief Minister or his Deputy and board members are civil servants. The
managing Director has limited authority and most kev decisions need still to be referred to
GOK for approval. Moreover, KPC was dependent on GOK for setting tariffs and almost of
all of the funding of ils capital expenditure s)rogram. It demonstrates that being incorporated,
does not provide a sufficient guarantee by itself for having adequate operational authority or
for ensuring that a power sector entity can be rim on a commercial basis and be creditworthy.
Despite the different legal status, KPC faced the samne level of political interference as KEB.
*   Support from both GOI and GOK for the project was inadequate. Administrative
procedures from GOI agencies and departments to obtain techno-economic clearance,
approval of tender documents, import licenses and foreign exchange were cumbersome, and
the demands from the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) were often onerous. Successive
changes in GOK and in its leadership resulted in frequent changes in the top management of
the utilities. Required tariff revisions were not granted, electricity bills from government
departments and undertakings were seldom paid in time and budgetary support (mostly
expected to be provided in the form of state government loans) was inadequate. The
situation was further aggravated by delays in the release of state government budgetary funds
as well as payment of rural electrification subsidies to KEB.



- 4 -
* Financial performance of KEB and KPC was unsatisfactory largely due to GOK's
unwillingness to grant adequate tariff increases to enable the utilities to comply with the
agreed financial covenants. Delays in settling arrears from government departments,
undertakings and drawn out discussions on the settlement of arrears from government owned
enterprises contributed to KEB's and KPC's financial difficulties.
11.   Bank missions brought the above problems and shortcomings to the notice of GOI, GOK,
KEB and KPC, and sought necessary action, the financial matters being almost solely within the
domain of GOK. As far back as 1990, the Bank had been warning GOK, KEB and KPC of the
likelihood of its suspending disbursements from the loan account. In 1992 and particularly in
1993, Bank missions listed specific conditions to be met in order to avoid suspension of
disbursement. The Bank repeatedly received assurances from GOK, KEB and KPC on necessary
actions but, by and large, the actions were either inadequate to achieve the desired results or the
projected results were unduly optimistic. The ad hoc GOK decision to abolish agricultural tariffs
from July 1992, and its refusal to reinstate them only made matters worse. On April 8, 1993, the
Bank suspended loan disbursements. In the absence of adequate remedial actions by GOK and
KPC to improve project management, the implementation of the R&R plan and KPC's financial
performance, the Bank canceled the KPC part of the loan on August 1, 1993. At that time, the
Bank held back the cancellation of KEB part of the loan, based on improvements in the
implementation of the transmission and distribution components and promises that GOK would
take action to reinstate the agricultural tariffs and other actions to enable KEB to comply with the
Bank's financial covenants. This has not been forthcoming and the Bank canceled the KEB part
of the loan on October 23, 1993. Only about US$ 69 million equivalent from the original loan
amount of US$330 million was disbursed. Earlier in 1991, an amount of US$70 million was
canceled at GOI's request, because of anticipated savings in project cost.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
12.   With respect to this project, it is difficult to make a distinction between factors under
Government control and those factors solely under the control of the implementing agency. The
factors have therefore been regrouped into thre- themes e.g. project management, resettlement
and rehabilitation and financial performance of KEB and KPC, the implementing agencies.
Project Management
13.   While part of the project delays can be attributed, as described above, to cumbersome
central and state government procedures and rather frequent changes in top management in the
KPC and KEB, other factors have played a role. KPC is incorporated under the Companies Act; it
is a fully state government-owned corporation and it has been customary to appoint either the
Chief Minister or the Deputy Chief Minister as Chairman of the Board. The KPC Board of
Directors delegated relatively few powers to KPC management. Project management at the site
had even more limited decision making powers. As a result, many of the day-to-day decisions had
to be referred either to the KPC headquarters in Bangalore or to the Board of Directors. Political
interference was rampant. The appointment of panel of experts, clearance of bidding documents
and award of contracts took much longer than anticipated during appraisal.



- 5 -
14.   The implementation delays of the Kadra and Kodasalli hydro-electric projects were
compounded by the non-performance of civil works contractors, flooding of the work area during
cyclonic weather, diesel shortages during the Gulf war. Furthermore, inadequacies in the (Bank
approved) contracts (particularly with respect to liquidated damages and price escalation clauses)
made it extremely difficult to deal with the contractual problems. The reluctance of the KPC
Board to take firm decisions made the situation worse. This was one of the factors which lead to
the recommendations of staff for the cancellation of the KPC portion of the loan.
15.   With respect to KEB, the initial delays occurred due to delays with land acquisition,
obtaining right of way, forest and other clearances, including from CEA for some of the
transmission line components as well as lengthy discussions to reach agreement on the bid
documents. After increased supervision efforts during 1991 and 1992, project management
improved significantly in KEB. The main problem was the lack of budgetary support, which made
it difficult to implement some of the agreed schemes, although the Bank loan was to finance more
than 50% of the project cost. By the time the Bank decided to cancel the loan, many of the
components were, finally, ready to be implemented. That included the implementation of an
institutional development program for KEB, for which most preparatory studies had just been
completed.
Resettlement and Rehabilitation
16.   The SAR recorded that 544 families (about 2,000 persons) were expected to be displaced
by the Kadra and Kodasalli hydro-electric project and a comprehensive resettlement and
rehabilitation plan had been prepared. The affected families were basically given two options:
land or a cash rehabilitation grant. This was over and above land acquisition compensation paid in
cash and a house plot with civic amenities and free transportation to the new site. Implementation
of the plan was slow, mainly because the forest land earmarked for the new resettlement colony
was not released to KPC. Site preparations could therefore not be made. A detailed review of
the status of implementation of the plan in 1991 revealed various other deficiencies. A new
survey was undertaken and KPC prepared a revised plan, which included various proposals for
enhancement of the rehabilitation package. ThL new survey identified 794 Project Affected
Families (PAFs), a 50% increase over the appraisal estimate. Eventually 409 families opted for
the rehabilitation grant, and the remaining 385 families for land for land.
17.   The implementation of the revised R&R plan remained fraught with problems. According
to Bank supervision mission reports, KPC neither showed a full grasp of all the tasks and issues
involved in the R&R process. Project management arrangements remained inadequate. In
January 1992, KPC finally received permission to proceed with the development work on some
777 acres of forest land (at Heggar and Halavalli villages), but this permission was withdrawn by
GOK around October 1992. By the time the Bank decided to cancel the KPC component of the
loan in August 1993, the land had still not been handed over to KPC for development.
18.   The ICR mission in September 1994, was informed that: (i) 777 acres of land were (again)
released to KPC and work was proceeding on the development. An additional 283 acres of
revenue land (at Kalleshwar) had been allotted to KPC and was expected to be taken over by
December 1994. The combined area of about 1,000 acres was considered adequate to meet the
needs of all PAFs who opted for land for land; (ii) GOK allowed KPC to enhance the cash
compensation package for the PAFs and some additional land has been made available at



- 6 -
Gotagali, near Kadra village to resettle families who opted for cash rehabilitation; (iii) KPC has
built 68 transition sheds at Kadra, absorbed 43 project affected persons in its regular workforce;
and training programs had been enhanced. Several PAFs however, having received their monetary
compensation long before they left the area, apparently used their compensation towards the
purchase of consumer durables. Thereafter, some of these PAFs refused to vacate their homes on
the grounds that they were short of funds to build their new homes. As of mid- 1994, only very
few PAFs had been rehabilitated, but KPC planned to complete the rehabilitation plan by mid
1996.
19.   It is not known to the Bank, whether KPC has been able to mobilize the funds to
complete the construction of the Kadra and Kodasalli projects and whether the implementation of
the resettlement and rehabilitation plan has continued and will be completed before the land will
be submerged. However, the redesign of the rehabilitation plan before the loan was canceled
appears to have had some positive influence.
Financial Performance of KEB and KPC
20.        Throughout the project implementation period (1988-93), the financial performance
of KEB and KPC was poor. The covenanted rate of return of 3%'/ was not achieved for most of
the time. Both utilities experienced severe liquidity problems and contribution to the investment
programs from internal cash generation was negligible. Reasons for this poor performance were
the lack of tariff increases, bill collection, drawn out billing disputes, non-payment of rural
electrification subsidies by GOK and inadequate releases of GOK budgetary support for KEB's
and KPC's agreed investment programs.
21.   Retail Tariffs. The pattern of electricity sales in Karnataka dramatically changed over the
last few years. In 1980, industrial consumption, i.e., High Tension (HT), accounted for about
63% of the total KEB energy sales, while agricultural i.e., Irrigation Pumps (IGP) consumption
accounted for about 6%. By 1993, HT consumption had dropped to 28% of the total, while IGP
consumption (most of which ceased to be metered after 1985) had increased to about 35%. The
rapid increase in agricultural connections and provision of electricity reflected a deliberate policy
of GOK aimed at increasing food production. During the period 1980-1992, the agricultural tariff
was increased by about 100%, from Rs 50/HP per year to Rs 90-130/HP per year, but in July
1992, GOK took the decision to abolish the agricultural tariffs. This decision was aimed at
achieving political gains but had neither economic nor social merits. It resulted in KEB losing
substantial annual revenues at a time when GOK has found it increasingly difficult to make
adequate and timely payments to KEB for rural electrification subsidies. Tariff increases granted
to KEB, were disproportionally loaded on to industrial and commercial consumers and intended
to protect agriculture and residential consumers. KEB's tariff structure became increasingly
distorted and the level of cross subsidies between consumer categories reached unsustainable
levels.
I/ Defined in accordance with the Electricity Act: e.g., after deduction of interest payments
charged to operations. There were differences of view regarding the accounting treatment of
rural electrification subsidies due to KEB from GOK. The Bank took the view that unless paid in
cash during the fiscal year it could not be considered part as KEB's revenue for the year.



- 7 -
22.   It has been well documented in Karnataka and other states in India, that many of the
farmers are willing to pay for electricity in exchange for an improvement of the quality of supply,
many farmers have already back-up diesel sets. Poorer farmers have, in most cases no access to
electricity and the prevailing system is being exploited by relatively well off farmers with strong
political connections. Part of the solution for protecting low income consumers both in rural as
well as urban areas, lies in the introduction of life line rates. One of the project components, was
a tariff study which, among other things, required examination of tariff and metering arrangements
for agricultural consumers and to make recommendations for improving the tariff structure. The
tariff study was however, never carried out, because of protracted discussions on the terms of
reference and shortlist of consultants.
23.   KEB Bill Collection. Under the loan, KEB was required to reduce its high level of
accounts receivable to two months of billing (from about 4.5 months of sales equivalent during
appraisal. Over the years, KEB's efforts to reduce the level of the accounts receivable were
frustrated by the problems of collecting revenues from government enterprises and local bodies,
and disputes over billing. At the end of FY92 the level of accounts receivable had increased to
5.6 months of sales equivalent. KEB had some success in improving collection from residential,
commercial and, private industrial consumers and it brought the receivable from these categories
down to around 2.5 months of billing but the overall level of accounts receivable remained at
about 3.7 months of sales equivalent. KEB never complied with the accounts receivable
covenant. However, the improvement in KEBs bill collection contributed to improvement in its
accounts payable and it enabled KEB to make regular payments to KPC as well as other suppliers.
Furthermore, the long-standing billing disputes between KEB and KPC were finally resolved but
after the Bank loan had been canceled.
24.   Other Financial Restructuring Measures. As an alternative to tariff increases, GOK
decided to convert some of the state government debt into equity, and extended repayment terms
from 15 to 20 years. The measure improved KEB's and KPC's rate of return on assets but it did
little to improve their liquidity position, because state government debt was in practice not being
repaid and interest payments were largely made through compensation with amounts due from
GOK at the end of the fiscal year.
25.   The Bank's financial covenants were designed, on the one hand, to ensure consistency
with the provisions of the Electricity Act and by requiring a reduction in accounts receivable
KEB's internal cash generation was to be protected. The financial projections made during
appraisal, forecasted a level of internal cash generation of about 20% with a heavy reliance on
state govemrnment loans to finance KEB's investment program. KEB's inability to comply with the
receivable covenant combined with a lower level of state government loans, did not only cause
substantial liquidity problems, but also made it difficult for KEB to implement its investment
program. In the case of KPC, similar covenants were set, but with KEB being their only client
defaulting it was virtually impossible for KPC to comply with the Bank's covenants. Moreover,
the SAR projected that KPC contribution to its investment program from intemal resources
would only be 13% over a ten year period with the balance (87%) to be borrowed. The Bank
loan was only about 8% of total estimated borrowing and the bulk was to come through loans
from the GOK. While KEB's non payment of bills to KPC have contributed to KPC's financial
difficulties, the financial forecast presented in the SAR was optimistic and to a certain extent
unrealistic. The SAR provided no analysis of GOK ability to provide the anticipated level of



- 8 -
support to KEB and KPC. As history has proven GOK failed to do so and nether KPC nor KEB
became creditworthy entities.
26.   Ultimately, the inability of GOK to ensure that KEB and KPC could achieve a reasonable
level of financial viability and the resulting inability to finance their share of the project, was a
major factor in the Bank's decision to first suspend and then cancel the loan.
Summary of the Developments on the Issues after Loan Cancellation
27.   A joint committee of the Karnataka legislature was appointed in 1993 to study the
working of KEB and KPC. Its report was presented to the Karnataka legislature on March 31,
1994. The recommendations included: (a) creation of energy conservation board for conservation
and efficient use of electricity; (b) GOK to pay directly to KEB the entire arrears due from state
enterprises, local bodies, out of the government grant or financial assistance to those customers;
(c) GOK to encourage private sector (domestic and foreign) to take up thermal power projects;
(d) KPC to have full autonomy, and more autonomy to be given to KEB including restoration of
powers withdrawn by GOK in mid-80s; and (e) as a majority recommendation, introduction of a
flat rate tariff of Rs 1 00/HP per year for IGP up to 10 lP, and GOK to compensate KEB for loss
of revenue due to subsidized IGP tariff.
28.   All the state's political parties were represented in the joint committee, but according to
recent information no concrete action has been undertaken to implement any of these
recommendations and agricultural tariffs have still not been reinstated. If implemented these
measures would be a step in the right direction, but not sufficient compared to the reforms the
Bank is seeking in the context of the various state power sector restructuring projects. Additional
main measures required would include the creation of an independent regulator and private sector
involvement in distribution.
29.   The long-standing billing disputes between KEB and KPC have been fully resolved and
tariffs for all KPC power stations have now been agreed. However, KEB is still paying only
about 90% of KPC's bill and as of September 1994, KEB had not obtained a letter of credit in
favor of KPC. A bulk power supply agreement had not been finalized.
30.   KEB continued to act aggressively to reduce accounts receivable from customer
categories within its control, and has reportedly been able to further reduce its accounts receivable
but the total is still above the covenanted two months of sales equivalent.
31.   KPC has signed a new agreement with each one of its main civil works contractors to
cover price escalation. In September 1994, these contractors were fully mobilized and ready to
resume work as soon as the monsoon effects subsided. It is however not known whether KPC
has been able to mobilize the funding to continue to implement the hydroelectric projects.
Sustainabilitv
32.   As the Bank loan was canceled well before the majority of the physical components of the
project were completed and the financial viability of both KEB and KPC have not been restored,
it is doubtful that at this stage any sustainable improvements, in economic or financial terms, can
be attributed to the impact of the Bank loan. The power supply situation in the southern region



- 9 -
remains critical and is the worst of India's five power regions. Systems frequency is below 50
cycles over 90 percent of the year and the systems load cannot be met even during off peak
periods. The ICR mission was, however, informed that as a result of measures taken by KEB,
including the implementation of some of the project components, transmission and distribution
losses were reduced from 22% in 1987 to about 18% in 1993. KEB was the recipient of the
Presidential Award for reduction in system losses. During the same period, energy sales per
employee improved from 183 to 256 kWh.
Bank Group Performance
33.   The performance of the Bank in respect of project preparation and appraisal cannot be
considered satisfactory. By the time the project went to the Board, very few of the components
of the project had been sufficiently prepared and, as became apparent shortly after Board
approval, the appraisal team had vastly overestimated the implementation capability of the both
executing agencies. Project implementation arrangements were inadequate and the rationale for
designing a transmission and distribution project with an eight year implementation period could
be questioned. The loan was declared effective, in 1988 when both, KPC and KEB, were in
default with key financial covenants. Only by 1990, the Bank started to enforce the financial
covenants more seriously, but the political situation in Karnataka remained such, that GOK was
not in a position to approve and implement the necessary tariff increases. The deterioration in
state finances further contributed to GOK 's inability to deliver on promised financial support to
the state utilities. The absence of a thorough analysis of availability of state financial resources,
made the financial projections in the SAR look rather unrealistic. When it became apparent in the
early stages of project implementation that GOK was not in a position to deliver on the tariff
increases or on the projected budgetary support for the investment programs of both KEB and
KPC, the Bank should have taken immediate remedial actions. The Bank's sustained objection to
GOK's abolition of agricultural tariffs on the grounds that it was in contradiction of GOI policy
and sound public utility practices was fully justified.
34.   Based on comments of early supervision missions on KPC's handling of R&R issues, one
would conclude that the Bank overestimated KPC's capability (which was considered satisfactory)
in implementing the R&R program under Kalinadi Stage I. Furthermore, it was known to the
Bank from other projects that GOK had, at best, an indifferent record of handling R&R issues.
Therefore, obtaining more stringent and firm GOK commitments allocation of land should have
been a requirement prior to loan approval (during the negotiations, the Indian delegation had
confirmed that GOK has taken all necessary governmental actions required for implementation of
R&R Plan - hence the condition for loan effectiveness was dropped by the Bank).
35.   The Bank carried out regular supervision missions, but during the first three years their
stay in the field was rather short. Between 1991-1993, the Bank intensified its supervision
mission efforts with appropriate expertise and longer field visits. Working relations with KEB
remained good and project implementation improved. With KPC relations were more difficult
and it became impossible to obtain the necessary decisions from their Board on crucial contractual
issues. The Bank provided ample warning to GOK, KEB and KPC to take remedial actions to
comply with the loan covenants in order to avoid suspension of disbursements. Despite some
improvements, particularly of KEB, the Bank was in its right to cancel the loan.



- 10-
Borrower Performance
36.   Government of India (GOI). Although GOI had approved the loan and formally signed
the Loan Agreement, central government clearance procedures, in particular from CEA for terms
of reference for studies, tender documents, contract awards, payments in foreign exchange were
extremely cumbersome and contributed to implementation delays. As per the onlending
arrangements, the Bank funds were released to Karnataka as part of the regular budgetary transfer
process of agreed plan allocations. This provided hardly any additional financial incentives to
KEB and KPC to use the proceeds of the loan nor did it give di,ect access to the Bank's special
account. In practice, both KEB and KPC, already strapped for funds, could only claim
reimbursement for expenditures already incurred.
37.   Government of Karnataka. Much of the lack of success of this project could be blamed
on the failure of GOK to grant adequate tariff increases (in line with the provisions of the
Electricity Act), budgetary support (in the form of loans) and non-payment of RE subsidies and
bills of government departments and undertakings. The delays in releasing the land for people
affected by the Kadra and Kodasalli has been another negative factor. Would this have
materialized most of the project implementation problems could have been overcome. Much of
the responsibility for the failure of the project should, however, be directed towards the political
levels in the government.
38.   The following demonstrates some of the philosophical differences between GOK and the
Bank. GOK (and to some extent KEB) officials contend that under the Loan Agreement, KEB
was required to achieve a 3% rate of return; and that there was no stipulation in the agreement to
retain (or abolish) agricultural tariffs. Some of the same officials also contend that a several states,
including the adjoining state of Tamil Nadu, provide free electricity to agricultural customers and
that, while other states have a nominal agricultural tariff, the revenue from this consumer category
is very low because the revenue collection is rarely, if at all, enforced. These contentions carry
little weight and are misplaced because at the time of appraisal, the Bank already expressed
concern about the inadequacy of agricultural tariffs, and hence the issue was included in the tariff
and metering study for subsequent action (SAR para. 4.27 (c), and Loan Agreement, Schedule 2,
Part B (c) (vi). GOK's action affected KEB's ability to finance its share of the project cost, and
the abolishment of agricultural tariffs was not in keeping with sound public utility practices.
39.   KPC Performance. Many of the problems which adversely affected KPC's performance,
arise from the fact that, KPC is a highly politicized (the Chief Minister is ex-officio Chairman of
KPC Board), state-owned enterprise, with little effective autonomy. As described above,
throughout the project implementation period, KPC's financial performance was short of the
stipulated targets and this had its repercussions in all areas of KPC's operations; KPC was not able
to make timely payments to contractors for the work done on the investment program and, on
occasions, was even not able to operate its thermal units because it had no cash to pay for coal.
In addition, there was significant turn-over in the top managerial levels partly arising from changes
in GOK and in its leadership. These changes in KPC's senior management, including the technical
committee, led to delays in various areas of project implementation, such as approval of terms of
reference for studies, appointment of consultants, approval of contracts and resolving contractual
disputes. The lack of autonomy at project managers level further contributed to the
implementation problems.



- II -
40.   KEB Performance. Just as in the case of KPC, the lack of autonomy on institutional and
financial matters, significant turn over in top management and severe liquidity problems adversely
affected KEB s performance. However, through internal organizational changes, KEBs project
implementation performance and financial management substantially improved despite the
continuing external constraints, such as the inadequate tariff policies of GOK.
Key Lessons Learned
41. Several important lessons can be drawn:
*   Project Design. The project was to be implemented over an eight year period and with the
exception of the two hydro-electric stations, most of the required government clearances for
the transmission line components had not yet been obtained, bid documents had not yet been
prepared and there was no agreement on the terms of reference for the various studies to be
financed under the project. For many of the project components preparation had not been
sufficiently advanced to warrant approval of a loan. In the light of the experience with this
project as well as others in India, standard Bank practice for India's projects is now that
required government clearances are obtained before Board approval. Invitations for
consulting services and bid documents should be ready to be issued when a loan is presented
to the Board. The use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility to better prepare the project
would have been appropriate in this case.
*   Project Management. The appraisal mission had overestimated the capacity of the
executing agencies to implement the project not only on technical matters, but also for the
implementation of the resettlement and rehabilitation plan for people affected by the
construction of Kadra and Kodasalli power stations. Project management capabilities should
have been more rigorously assessed and the project management organization designed
accordingly. The Bank should have insisted with the executing agencies to avail themselves
of independent advice to strengthen project implementation capabilities.
*  Lack of Autonomy. Even though Karnatal;a was a pioneer in "unbundling" by separating
generation from transmission and distribution, KPC is an example that simply incorporating
the state electricity board (or functional parts of it) is not sufficient to guarantee adequate
operational autonomy. In the case of KPC, the Board of Directors is chaired by the Chief
Minister or his Deputy and board members are all civil servants. The Managing Director has
limited authority and most key decisions still need to be referred to GOK for approval.
*  Support from both GOI and GOK for the project was inadequate. Administrative
procedures from GOI agencies and departments to obtain approval of tender documents,
import licenses and foreign exchange were cumbersome, and demands from the Central
Electricity Authority were often onerous. Successive changes in GOK and in its leadership
resulted in frequent changes in the top management of the utilities. Required tariff revisions
were not granted, electricity bills from government departments and undertakings were
seldom paid in time and budgetary support was inadequate. This situation prevailed despite
the fact that GOI and GOK were signatories to the legal agreements. The failure of this
project has helped to shape the Bank's current thinking that without introducing fundamental
changes such as the creation of an independent regulatory authority, tariff reforms,
incorporation of the power sector activities and privatization of distribution, it would be



- 12 -
difficult to insulate the state power sector from political interference, create creditworthy
entities and operate the sector on a commercial basis. This new approach is already reflected
in the design of Bank state power sector operations currently being prepared in India.
* Onlending arrangements were sub-optimal, the executing agencies had no direct access to
the Special Account and the arrangement provided few incentives for the implementing
agencies to accelerate project implementation. The effectiveness of the onlending
arrangements for executing agencies at the state level should be reviewed. Financial
covenants should have been more focused on providing the utilities with adequate cash
resources to conduct their operations and contribute to their investment program from their
own resources. No assessment was carried out to assess GOK's ability to provide the
required budgetary support.
* Financial performance. In a situation where agreed financial targets even if required by law
(such as the minimum 3% rate of return after interest target specified in the Electricity Act)
are not respected by the political decision makers, measures need to be introduced before loan
approval to create an appropriate regulatory environment to ensure the creditworthiness of the
power sector entities and which would prevent the government from disallowing tariff
increases for political reasons. In the case of India, this requires amendments in the existing
electricity legislation.



- 13 -
Part II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives                 Substantial    Partial   Negligible   Not applicable
Sector policies                            E           OD         *           O
Financial objectives                        I          El         *           O
Institutional objectives                   O           O          * U
Physical objectives                        E           O          a           O
Environmental objectives                   O           O          a           O
Highly                                 Less than
B. Bank Performance                         Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Indifferent   Satisfactory
Identification                             O         E             *             O
Preparation assistance                     E         E             *             O
Appraisal                                  O         E             E             U
Supervision                                E         a             E             E
Highly
C.. Borrower Performance                       satisfactory      Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                O                  E               o
Implementation                             E                 E                U
Covenant compliance                        O                 E               *
Highly     Likely to be                   Highly
D. Assessment of Outcome                   satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
OD          ED              ED          *



- 14 -
..   ........l.t  _........ . .   .....t_ _._ -
Loan/Credit Title                     Loan/Credit No.    Year of Approval    Expected Completion
Precedinf Operations
Ramnagundam Thermal Power                Ln. 1648            01/79               Complete
Farakka Thermal Power                    Ln. 1887            06/80               Complete
Second Ramagundam Thermal Power          Ln. 2076            12/81               Complete
Third Rural Electrification              Ln. 2165            06/82               Complete
Upper Indravati Hydro                    Ln. 2278            05/83               Complete
Central Power Transmission               Ln. 2283            05/83               Complete
Indira Sarovar                          I.n. 2416            05/84               Complete
Second Farakka Thermal Power             Ln. 2442            0)6/84              Complete
Fourth Trombay Thermal                   Ln. 2452            06/84               Complete
Chandrapur Thermal Power                 Ln. 2544            05/85               Complete
Rihand Power Transmission                Ln. 2555            05/85               Complete
Kerala state Power                       Ln. 2582            06/85               Complete
Combined CR cle                          Ln. 2674            04/86               Complete
IDA Credits
Preceding Operations
Rural Electrification                     Cr. 572            07/75               Complete
Fourth Power Transmission                 Cr. 604            01/76               Complete
Singrauli Thermal Power                  Cr. 685             03/77               Complete
Korba Thermal Power                       Cr. 793            04/78               Complete
Ramagundam Thermal Power                  Cr. 874            01/79               Complete
Second Rural electrification             Cr. 911             05/79               Complete
Second Singrauli Thermal Power           Cr. 1027            05/80               Complete
Farakka Thermal Power                    Cr. 1053            06/80               Complete
Second Korba Thermal Power               Cr. 1172            07/81               Complete
Upper Indravati                          Cr. 1356            04/83               Complete
Indira Sarovar                           Cr. 1613            05/86               Complete
Fourth ower Tan.misioneCr 604~                        01i7mComle!
X                          X~~~~~~~~Date Planned                Actual
Appraisal                                Not available                      04/86
Negotiations                             Not available                     04/07/87
Board Presentation                       Not available                     06/04/87
Signing                                  Not available                     12/21/87
Effectiveness                            Not available                     04/06/88
Cancellation                             Not available                     10/25/93
Loan Closing                               12/31/95                        12/16/93



-15 -
T.-*  .4, LqwDsnsmiiu              uaiVES Euiat  andAeua
Estimated (SAR)                                          Actual
Year            Semester       Cumulative          %                 Semester   Cumulative              %
FY88 SI               0.3              0.3         0.1
FY88 S2               4.1              4.4         1.3                    14.0           14.0         20.1
FY89 SI              12.7             17.1         5.2                     0.0           14.0         20.1
FY89 S2              19.3             36.4        11.(                     1.5           15.5         22.3
FY90 SI              23.7             60.1        18.2                     0.0           15.5         22.3
FY90 S2              29.6             89.7        27.2                     9.8           25.3         36.4
FY91 SI              30.3            120.0        36.4                     5.8           31.1         44.7
FY91 S2              31.7            151.7        46.0                     9.5           40.6         58.3
FY92 SI              32.8            184.5        55.9                     4.9           45.5         65.4
FY92 S2              30.7            215.2        65.2                    17.0           62.5         89.8
FY93 Sl              26.7            241.9        73.3                     7.3           69.8        100.3
FY93 S2              22.9            264.8        80.2                     9.6           79.4        114.1
FY94 SI              21.4            286.2        86.7                    -9.8           69.6        100.0
FY94 S2              17.8            304.0        92.1
FY95 SI               4.8            308.8        93.6
FY95 S2              13.7            322.5        97.7
FY96 SI               7.5            330.0       100.0               _
****    Reimbursement of the Special Account



- 16 -
SAR Estimate           Actual or Latest
Estimate
KADRA
Power House                                       12/92                    06/96
Dam (Reach I)                                    07/91
Dawn (Reach II)                                   06/93                    06/96
Dam (Reach III)                                   11/92                    05/94
Dam (Reach IV)                                    11/92                    04/94
Commissioning Unit I                                                       06/96
Commissioning Unit II                                                      05/97
Commissioning Unit III                                                     10/97
Dam Civil Works                              71 % Complete
Power House, etc., Civil Works               30% Complete
Hydraulic and Electrical Works               30% Complete
Partial submersion by June 1995
(Evacuation of some 100 PAFs by Apnrl 1995). Full submersion by July 1996.
KODASALLI
Power House                                       12/92                    06/96
Dam                                               12/93                    03/92
Commissioning Unit I                                                       06/96
Commissioning Unit II                                                      06/97
Commissioning Unit III                                                     11/97
Dam - Civil Works                            40% Complete
Power House, etc., Civil Works               35% Complete
Hydraulics and Electrical Works              40% Complete
Partial submersion in June 1996 (few PAFs to be evacuated by April 1996)
Full submersion June 1997.
Rehabilitation of Sharavathi HEP             90% Complete
Units Nos. I to 8 were reconditioned and
upgraded from 89MW/unit to
103.5MW/unit.
Units Nos. 9 and 10 are being
reconditioned.
Generation Management System                 42% Complete
Consultancy Services re. Talakalale Dam        Completed



- 17 -
~~~~~~~~~...'.      b, , _'""""dE_E
SAR Estimate         Actual or Latest
Estimate
TM   220kV 225km (250km) Davangere              03/85                 03/90
S/S  Malavatti 220/66                           03/89
S/S  Halli 220/66                                                      10/92
S/S  Hiriyur 220/66                             03/89                 11/92
TM  220kV 31km (28km) Kadra-Kodasalli           06/91                  12/94
TM  220kV 40 km (34km) Kodasalli-Nagjari        06/91                  12/94
TM  400kV 250km (255km)                         03/91                 09/94
Devangere-Nelamangala
S/S  Nelama 400/200                             09/91                 06/96
TM  400kV 120km (121km)                         03/91                 03/93
Davangere-Munarabad
S/S  Davangere 400/220                          03/94                 12/94
TM  400kV 140km                                 23/93                 06/96
Sirsi-Davangere
S/S  Sirsi  400/220                             03/94
TM  400kV 50km (70km)                           12/93                 06/96
Table 6: Kev Indicators for Project Oeration
No key indicators for Project Operation were given in the SAR.
..   ..   .. : .   ...   ..   ...              .   . .. ...   ....... -l 
Bangalore Master Plan                                        Completed
OMS & MIS Studies                                            Completed
Reactive Compensation Study                                  Completed
Tariff Study                                             Study never started



- 18 -
Appraisal Estimate                   Actual
Local     Foreign
Costs      Costs         Total
Investment Costs
Land, Resettlement, Rehabilitation    9.4         0.0        9.4  The project was canceled at
Afforestation                         5.7         0.1        5.8  mid-point. Most components
Civil Works                          78.8        13.6       92.4  have not been completed. KEB
Turbine-Generator Sets               17.8        71.3       89.1  and KPC were unable to provide
Mechanical Equipment                 14.8         2.8       17.6  the required information
Electrical Equipment                  6.2         5.0       11.2
Generation Management System          2.2         6.1        8.4
Sharavathi Rehabilitation             7.3        20.9       28.2
Transmission Lines 400 kV            59.3         6.6       65.9
Transmission Lines 220 kV             8.4         0.9        9.3
Substation 400 kV                    41.4         3.6       45.0
Substation 220 kV                     8.2         0.9        9.1
Service and Maintenance Equipment     0.8         0.6        1.4
Computing Facilities                  0.0         0.1        0.1
Training                              0.3         0.6        0.9
Consultancy                           2.3         3.3        5.6
Engineering & Administration         44.7         0.5       45.2
Total Base Line Costs               307.6       136.9      444.6
Physical Contingencies               17.2         7.3       24.8
Price Contingencies                  93.1        46.7      139.8
Total Project Costs                417.9        191.3      609.2
Interest during construction
Bank                                           180.9      180.9
Other                              157.1                  157.1
Total Financing Required            _



-19-
Appraisal Estimate (USSmm)         Actual (US$mm)
Local    Foreign             Local    Foreign
Source           Costs      Costs    Total     Costs     Costs      Total
KPC Component
IBRD                           --    197.2    197.2 The project was canceled at rmid-
point. KPC and KEB were unable to
provide actual information.
Kuwait Fund                    --      27.0     27.0
KPC                          85.0        --    85.0
GOK                         285.2      85.6    370.8
Subtotal                    370.2    309.8    680.0
KEB Component
IBRD                         70.2      61.7    131.9
KEB                          55.9         -     55.9
GOK                          78.5         -     78.5
Subtotal                    204.6      61.7    266.3
CEA Component
IBRD                          0.2       0.7      0.9
Project Total               5I7.      32       242a_
,~~~~~~je  EkE-   -  P*Ie
The project was an integral part of the least cost expansion program for the southern
region and a cost benefit analysis had been carried out on the program as a whole rather than on
the project in isolation. The estimated internal economic rate of return (EIRR). However, after
including additional benefits reflecting the consumers willingness to pay on the basis of alternative
cost of autogeneration by agricultural and industrial consumers, the EIRR increased to 12%.
As the project was canceled before most components were completed and neither KPC or
KEB was able to provide an update of funding required to complete the various project
components, the EIRR could not be recalculated. At this point, however, no economic benefits
have materialized from the project. The power demand/supply situation in the Southern region is
the worst of India's five power regions.



- 20 -
. .:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:;.:.:..............                    ....    .... C w n......._ _ _
Agreement |Section | Type/Entity |              Description              | Comments
A. Karnataka Agreement
KA          2.07     ENV/KPC    GOK to implement the rehabilitation and    Implementation was
resettlement plan                      unsatisfactory
KA          4.01(c)  AUD/KEB    KEB to send its audited financial         Complied up to
statements and the auditor's report to the    FY91.
Bank not later than nine months after the
end of each financial year.
KA          4.02     AUD/KEB    Audit - KEB (past audited accounts and    Complied with.
reports for FY86 and FY87 by 12/31/87).
KA          4.03     FIN/KEB      KEB shall take from time to time measures  Not complied with.
including tariffs adjustments to ensure total
revenues in any year after meeting (i)
expenses chargeable to revenues, (ii) taxes,
(iii) depreciation, and (iv) interest, produce
surplus not less than 3% of net fixed assets
of KEB at beginning of such year.
KA          Sch. 2   FIN/GOK      GOK undertakes that all loans made or to    Complied with.
para. 1               be made to KPC and KEB after April 1,
1987 shall include 20 years term with 5
years grace.
KA          Sch. 2   FIN/KEB      KEB to clear its arrears due to KPC as of   Not complied.
2(a)                  March 31, 1987 by April 1, 1990, in
accordance with a program paralleling the
reduction of KEB's accounts receivable.
KA          Sch. 2   FIN/KEB      KEB to open a revolving letter of credit in   Not complied with.
2(b)                  favor of KPC for an amount equivalent to
one month's estimated purchases.
KA          Sch. 2   FIN/KEB      KEB to clear any sums owed to KPC for    Partially complied
2(c)                  sales after April 1, 1987, and not covered    with.
by the letter of credit, within 30 days of the
date of the invoice.
KA          Sch. 2   FIN/KEB      KEB to send to the Bank by December 31    Partially complied
3                     of each year a report of the Board's   with.
forecast of operational and financial
performance for the ensuing financial year
specifying actions to be taken to achieve
3% ROR (Section 4.03 of the Kamataka
Agreement).
KA          Sch. 2   FIN/KEB      KEB to clear its accounts receivable as of   Not complied with.
4                     March 31, 1987 from its principal debtors
by April 1, 1990 and maintain its accounts
receivable, with respect to sales after
March 31, 1987 at no more than the
equivalent of the preceding two month's
sales.



- 21 -
A. Karnataka Agreement (Cont'd)
KA          Sch. 2   TEC/KEB    KEB by March 31, 1989 to provide meters  Partially complied
5                    for all connections (except for agricultural   with.
customers with pumps of 10 HP or less)
and reduce thereafter the number of faulty
meters to I l% of the total metered
connections in accordance with a
monitorable action program.
KA          Sch. 2   FIN/KEB      KEB to: (i) write off the book value of the   Partially complied
6                    Hirebhaskar dam and outstanding amounts   with.
in the Stock Incidental Account for
1989/86; and (ii) by March 31, 1988 clear
the outstanding amounts in its inter unit
account.
B. Loan Agreement
LA          4.01    AUD/CEA    CEA to send to the Bank an auditor's     N.A.
report for its SOEs (due within nine months
of the end of each financial year).
LA          4.02(b)  AUD/GOI    Audit - SOE (audit withdrawals for KPCL   Complied with up
due within 7 months of FY end and     to FY91.
withdrawals for CEA and KEB within 9
months of FY end).
LA          4.03    AUD/GOI    Audit - Special Account (due within 6    Complied with.
months of FY end).,
LA          Art. V   ENV/KEB    Loan will be suspended if KEB is unable to  Compliance
5.01(b)              obtain by October 31, 1988 forest clearance  delayed.
for the transmission lines.
C. Project Agreement
PA          3.03    FIN/KPC       KPCL shall take out and maintain      Complied with.
insurance against risks in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
PA          4.01(b)  AUD/KPC    KPCL shah send to the Bank its audited  Complied with up
(ii)                 financial statements and the auditor's report to FY9 1.
(due within 7 months of FY end).
PA          4.02    FIN/KPC       KPCL shall from time to time take     Not complied with.
measures, including tariff adjustments to
ensure total revenues in any year after
meeting: (i) expenses chargeable to
revenues, (ii) taxes, (iii) depreciation, and
(iv) interest, produce surplus not less that
3% of net fixed assets of KPCL at
beginning of such year.



- 22 -
C. Project Agreement (Cont'd)
PA          Sch. 1   FIN/KPC      KPC to send to the Bank by December 31    Partially complied
each year, a report of its forecast of  with.
operational and financial performance for
the ensuing financial year specifying the
actions that will be taken to attain a 3%
ROR
PA          Sch. 2   TEC/KPC    KPC to: (i) review with its panel of experts  Compliance
the results of the investigations of the  delayed.
limestone formation at Kodasalli, (ii)
prepare a report recommending treatment
should any be necessary; and (iii) send the
report to the Bank by November 30, 1987.
PA          Sch. 3   FIN/KPC      KPC by December 31, 1987 to ensure that   Complied with.
its Internal Audit Unit is adequately staffed
and that the unit report directly to the
__________Finance_Director or the_Managing_Director._________
Stage of Project Cycle                                   Actual
Staff Weeks                 US$ thousand
Through Appraisal                                    39.4                          74.4
Appraisal-Effectiveness                              49.4                          88.1
Supervision                                         149.3                         335.9
ICR                                                   4.0                            5.6



- 23 -
Performance Rating
Stage of     Month/   Number  Specialized Staff  Implemen-   Develop-          Types of
Project       Year        of          Skills         tation       ment        Problems
Cycle                 Persons    Represented        Status      Impact
Through       FY85           1        Not available
appraisal     FY86
Appraisal     Feb. 1986      4        Not available
through       Apr. 1986      5
Board         Oct. 1986      4
approval
Supervision    Dec. 1987     4     SPE, FA, CE, PE        2        'ot rated
Jul. 1988     2     SPE,FA                 2
Oct. 1988     1     SPE                    2
Dec. 1988     2     SPE, CE                2
Jan. 1989     1     ES                     2
Mar. 1989     2      SPE, CE               2
Sep. 1989     2     SPE, FA                2
Dec. 1989     2      SPE, CE               2
Jan. 1990     2     CE, SPE                2
Mar. 1990     3      SPE, HC, FA           3            2       Implementation,
Financial,
Feb. 1991     3     TM, PE, PO             3           2         Resettlement
Aug. 1991     4      TM, PE, PO, FA        3            2            and
Rehabilitation
Apr. 1992     2     TM, CE                 3           3
Aug. 1992     2      TM, CE                3            3
Oct. 1992     4     TM, FA, PE, RE         3           3
Jan. 1993     4     TM, FA, PE, RE         4           4
Jun. 1993     2     TM, CE                 4           4
Sep. 1993     1     TM                     4           4
Sep. 1994     1     Consultant
Special Staff Skills:
TM    Task Manager                SPE   Senior Power Engineer
FA    Financial Analyst           ES    Environmental Specialist
PE    Power Engineer              HC    Hydro Consultant
CE    Consultant                  PO    Project Officer
RE    Resettlement Expert









I        I i   ;                                            7     ;         '         l               -l



