Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
2X/. 2         ' 7X/y
Report No. 6695-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
KARNATUA POWER PROJECT
May 13, 1987
Energy Divis.on
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00             =      Paisa 100
US$1.00                    Rs 13.00
Rs 1.00                    US$0.077
Rs 1,000,000               US$76,923
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)                    1,000 meters (m) - 0.6214 miles (mi)
1 Meter (m)                   -    39.37 inches (in)
1 Cubic Meter (m3)            -    1.31 cubic yard (cu yd) = 35.35 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 Hectare (ha)                -    10,000 m  = 2.471 acres (ac)
1 Kilogram (kg)               -    2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 Ton (t)                           I 1 metric ton = 2,200 lbs
1 Kilocalorie (kcal)          =    3.97 British Thermal units (BTU)
1 Kilovolt (kV)               =    1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVA)             1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)               -    1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1 million watts
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)               1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Horse Power (HP)            =    0.75 k.louatts (kW)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AG     -  Accountant General of Karnataka
CAS    -  Commercial Accounting System
CEA    -  Central Electricity Authority
CIF    -  Cost Ir,surance Freight
CWC    -  Central Water Commission
DOFW   -  Department of Forests and Wildlife
cOI    -  Government of India
COK    -  Government of Karnataka
GOKDF  -  Government of Karnataka Department of Furests
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA    -  International Development AsF )ciation
KEB    -  Karnataka Electricity Board
KPC    -  Karnataka Power Corporation
LCB    -  Local Competitive Bidding
LIB    -  Limited International Bidding
LRMC   -  Long Run Marginal Cost
MIS    -  Management Information System
NHPC   -  National Hydro Electric Power Corporation
NPP    -  National Power Plan
NTPC   -  National Thermal Power Corporation
O&M    -  Operation and Maintenance
POE    -  Panel of Experts
REB    -  Regional Electricity Board
REC    -  Rural Electrification Corporation
SCADA  -  System Control and Data Acquisition
SEB    -  State Electricity Board
SOE    -  Statemfnt of Expenditures
SREB   -  Southern Regional Electricity Board
Beneficiaries' financial years end March 31



FOR OFFIAL UK ONLY
INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNAY
Borrower:             India$ acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:        Karnataka Power Corporation (KPC)
Karrntaka Electricity Board (KEB)
Government of India (Central Electricity Authority)
Amount:               US$330 million equivalent.
Terms:                Repayment over 20 years, including 5 years' grace,
at the applicable rate of interest.
Onlending Terms:      Government of India (COI) to Government of Karnataka
(GOK)M As part of Central assistance to Karnataka
for development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
GOK to KPC: About US$197 million. Repayment over
25 yearsp including 5 years' grace at GOK's interest
rate applicable at the time for its lending to KPC,
but not less than 10.75X per annum.
GOK to KEB: About US$132 million. Repayment over
25 years, including 5 years grace at GOK's interest
rate applicable at the time for its lending to KEB,
but not  8sss than 10.75X per annum.
GOI would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risks.
Project Description: The project's main objectives are: (i) to ass-st in
meeting electricity demand in the State of Kar. utaka
and the Southern Region of India through (a) the
addition of 270 NW of hydro capacity on the Kalinadi
River; (b) rehabilitation of the Sharavathi Power Station;
and (c) reinforcement of the State's transmission system;
and (ii) to effect institutional, operational and financial
improvements in relation to both KPC and KEB through the
provision of consulting services, computer hardware,
software and training. There are no extraordinary
technical risks associated with the Project. Geological
investigations have confirmed generally good rock formation
in the area of the hydro schemes. KPC and REB have staff
familiar with works similar to those included in the
proposed Project and consulting support will be provided
in those areas in which the beneficiaries lack experience.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
| of their ocW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: 1/
Item                                                Local     Foreign      Total
-------(Us$ Millions)------
Land, Resettlement, Rehabilitation                    9.4         -          9.4
Afforestation                                         5.7        0.1         5.8
Civil Works                                          78.8        13.6       92.4
Power House Equipment                                38.9       79.0       117.9
Generation Management System                          2.3        6.1         8.4
Sharavathi Rehabilitation                             7.3       20.9        28.2
Transmission Lines                                   67.8         7.4       75.2
Substations                                          49.6        4.5        54.1
Engineering and Administration                       44.7        0.5        45.2
Institutional Development                             3.1        4.9         8.0
Total Base Costs                                  307.6      137.0       444.6
Physical Contingencies                               17.2        7.6        24.8
Price Contingencies                                  93.1       46.7       139.8
Total Project Cost                                417.9      191.3       609.2
Interest during Construction:
Bank                                                         180.9       180.9
Other                                             157.1         -        157.1
Total Financing Requirements                        575.0      372.2       947.2
_                      Z==    =
1/ Including about US$86 million in taxes and duties.



-iii-
Financing Plan:
(US$ millions)
Source                         Local       Foreign      Total
IBRD                           70.4         259.6       330.0
KFAED                             -          27.0         27.0
GOK                           363.7          85.6       449.3
KPC                            85.0             -         85.0
KEB                            55.9             -         55.9
575.0        372.2        947.2
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ millions)
Bank FY              FY88  FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95  FY96
Annual                4.7  31.7   53.3   62.0   63.5   49.6   39.2   18.5   7.5
Cumulative Disb.      4.7  36.4   89.7  151.7  215.2  264.8  304.0  322.5 330.0
Rate of Return:     About 12%.



-iv-
INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary .,..eo..,..................o...       i-iii
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT ...........................................      1
Commercial Energy Resources ...............e.................     1
Electricity Supply and Demand ...........e......o........         2
Organization of the Power Subsector ................. eo          2
Finance and Pricing ....,.....,..,..e...,....e........            3
Power Subsector Planning  .....0..........oo                      4
Management and Operations    .                                    5
0OI's Strategy in the Power Subsector.,.....................      6
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Subsector                       8
Bank Group Participation a. e0e@*@OO... ...... ........ 0        9
II.  THE BENEFICIARIES  * *...................,.e..........          10
Introduction  ...........                                        10
KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION ....10
Backgrountd .............   *         ............... .o.*.      10
Organization ......... .eoo.. o. 00000 *o*******e¢o***           11
Personnel and Staffing *.............*......*....e..*.           11
planning                            .                            12
Project Implementation                                           12
Operation and Maintenance                                        12
Training                                                         13
KARNATAKA ELECTRICITY BOARD                                      13
Background                   ......... .........                13
Organization ..................                                  13
Personnel and Staffing                 ...                      14
Planning  * *  00000000o,o*e*oo                                 15
Operation and Maintenance                                        15
Load Dispatch                                                    15
Materials Management                                             16
Training                                                        16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to India in
April/Kay 1986. Mission members were Messrs. w. Jones (Senior Economist),
V. Dobisch (Engineer), R. Sharma (Financial Analyst), A. Posada (Consultant
Engineer). Mr. R. Goodland assisted with environmental aspects of the project
and Mr. W. Partridge assisted with resettlement aspects.



Page No.
III. THE PROJECT ......... ....e8000                                  17
Project Setting ....o........* ..............o...................    17
Project Objectives .............. ... .. e.* **...*.             18
Project Description                                              18
Project Engineering                                              20
Project Implementation and Construction Schedule                 20
Water Rights ..o.....o.eo.o...  ooo.. .*.oo.o.... o,.o   21
Resettlement o ..oo..oo.o...ooe.oo.o.. o.... o.oo..o..oo.oooo.o.    21
Forestry ...o..o. ooooeoo.ooov****.oe *e  *oooooe.*o.ooo,.*o*..o    23
Other Enviromental Aspects ....oo.o*....oo*....ooe..oo..*o..o   23
Project Costs *oo.......*.o.o.... ooooo.oo..... o.o o.ooooo.oo   24
Project Financing ..... e0@0*000.. so ..................... .... 25
Procurement *oooooooo..ooooooooooooo*.ooooooooooooooo*oo   26
Disbursements  .ooo.. o o.oo. o . o.o.o.ooo. oo.6,oeeoooo .oo    28
Project Operation o.....o..ooo.oo..oe..oo....o.o....ooo.ooo.o.   29
Project Monitoring  ..00.00..000.000...0.....0......... ....    29
Project Risks  .o....., ...............0.00.. 00......0...00..   29
IV.  FINANCE oooo...o... **.. ..oo*oo *+o,*o**o*oo* ..*. ..*0...00..0   30
KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION ..............................*..    30
Background ***+eo****¢X***v****+****                             30
Accounting Systems and Financial Orgenization.                   30
Audit Arrangements ................... .................         30
Fixed Asset Accounting ,-o..oooooootoo.oooo.-..oooo*....    31
Insurance           ............... o .......................    31
'rariffs                                                         31
Past Financial Performance                                       32
Present Financial Position                                       33
Accounts Receivable                                              34
Onlend.lig Arrangements *...e....0009000e.e.o..ooo..ooeo*        34
Financial Performance Covenant                                   34
Investment and Financing                                         35
Forecast Financial Performance ........,....e.....,......        36
Income Taxes                  .........  .            .......    37
KARNATAKA ELECTRICITY BOARD .....37
Background                                                       37
Accounting Systems and Financial Organization .*..........       37
Audit Arrangements   .............,            e                 38
Fized Asset Accounting  o...o00004.*00**0@.......................  39
Metering and Billing  ......        ..400000000000000000000    39
Insurance 0000                              00                   40
Tariffs ..oooo.....o......o..o.o..o..oo.o..o..oo...oooooe.o.oo   40
Past Financial Performance o..o.oo..o....ooo*oo..... .o*....voo    41
Present Financial Position .o0004oooo0o40o00000000ooo 04ooo..o   42
Investments and Intangibles 0o00000049o..o00o4000000o.o..oo0.o   42
Suspense Accounts ...............o.oooooo*  ......o..o.ooooooo   43



-vi-
Page No.
Accounts Receivablo  .....43. ............................ ..    43
Accounts Payable .........e...........eo. ..oeeo ee..            44
Onlending Arrangements .o..ooe.oe..o..o.,...,....                44
Financial Performance Covenant oo*.e.. eoooooo*. *o*. ***o,**e., *    45
Investment and Financing ooo.o.oe.o...*... .oe*o*o.. ....e.e...    45
Forecast Financial Performance .,..o.o.ooooo,..oo..oooo,oo..k,   46
Income Taxes *...e.o*e.,eoo.*.....oe.. o.e*o.oo... oe.oo.o.*.o.,  48
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  .................    48
Least Cost Analysis  o.ooeeeoeoo*o ***********.*0*000000,00*    48
Internal Economic Rate of Return *.o*.e..,o.*..*..o.oo*. ..ee**.   48
Justification for Bank Involvement *..*o***. o***o*..*..*..*.o..  50
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS o .... oo..... .. .............*.  50
Agreements o..*oooeooo*ooe*oeooooooooo*o**oo*oooooeo.o.o...   50
Recommendation ooooooooooooooo.o........ooo..o...oo.o.oo..o    53
ANNEXES
1.1 Power Supply Position - All India
1.2 Forecast of Regional Power Demand
1.3 Previous Loans and Credits to Indian Power Subsector
2.1 KPC Organization Chart
2.,2 KEB Organization Chart
3.2 Detailed Project Description
3.2 Project Implementation Schedule
3.3 Resettlement Plan
3.4 Project Cost Estimates
3.5 Procurement Schedule
3.6 Disbursement Schedule
4.1 Rate of Return - Computation Method
4.2 KPC Financial Projections
4.3 KXB Financial Projections
5.1 Internal Economic Rate of Return
6.1 Documents in Project File
MAPS
IBRD 19792R
IBRD 19793



INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Commercial Energy Resources
1.01    Indi&'s principal commercial energy sources comprise coal, oil, gas,
hydro and nuclear energy. Of the nonrenewable resources, coal is the most
abundant. Reserves of thermal coal have been estimated at slightly more than
100 billion tons, of which 25 billion are proven. Although reserves are
ample, the quality of coal produced is generally low and is deteriorating.
The high ash content, up to 50%, increases power station capital and operat-
ing costs and has exacerbated problems of coal transport. OI's emphasis on
concentrated development of pithead stations helps to address transport
problems but will not reduce the other costs associated with poor coal
quality. In any case pithead development will be constrained by pollution
and water availability. 001 appointed the Fazal Committee to examine the
problems of coal supply to thermal power stations. This committee, which
reported in October 1983, made a large number of recommendations, affecting
all aspects of supply from coal preparation to railway operations
(para 1.14); the great majority of these recommendations have been accepted
by GOI. The Bank is supporting OI's efforts in this area through its lend-
ing to the coal sector. The Dudhichua Coal Project includes studies to
examine coal linkages and identify potential improvements in handling and
transportation facilities. Coal quality is also being addressed, par-
ticularly through the inclusiont of appropriate quality incentives in coal
supply contracts.
1.02    Proven and probable petroleum reserves comprise approximately 510
million tons of oil and 390 million toe of natural gas. Despite recent
increases in domestic production, India still imports about one third of its
oil requirements, which in FY84 cost the equivalent of 402 of its merchandise
exports. GOI has therefore given high priority to oil and gas exploration
and, at the same time, has implemented measures, including economic pricing,
to restrain the rapidly growing demand for oil products, particularly middle
distillates. In the past, COI has generally limited natural gas to premium
markets such as petrochemicals and fertilizer; however, delays in the con-
struction of gas infrastructure have resulted in substantial volumes of gas
being flar_d.  The Bank has encourages  GOI to develop the necessary
infrastructure and to allow other economic uses of gas including power gener-
ation.  In response, GOI has begun to invest in pipelines and has recently
revised its policy on the use of gas for power generation (paras 1.14 and
1.15).
1.03    India's hydroelectric potential is equivalent to about lOO1 OOO KW.
At present only 14,000 NV have been developed, 4,700 KW are under construc-
tion and a further 23,000 KW are being studied for future development. The



-2-
prominent role of hydro generation in regional least-cost power development
plans has led GOI to emphasize the need to accelerate hydro development;
however, progress has been slow owing to the lack of financial resources of
states with the greatest hydro potential, the time required to resolve water
rights and environmental issues, and the limited technical resources avail-
able for the simultaneous preparation of a large number of hydro schemes.
Attempts to address these issues through increased central sector involvement
have so far met with limited success (para 1.07).
1.04    The country's uranium reserves could support a modest nuclear program
(8,000 - 10,000 MW), and thorium reserves are enough for a large fast breeder
program. India's nuclear power ge.ierating capacity is currently 1,095 MW.
Electricity Supply and Demand
1.05    In 1984/85 utilities' gross power generation amounted to
approximately 157,000 GWh from an installed capacity of just over 42,000 NW.
Almost 601 of generation was from coal, 34Z from hydro, and the rest from
oil, nuclear energy, and natural gas. Electricity losses have risen slowly
but steadily over the last few years and now exceed 26% of gross generation.
The deteriorating quality of coal has increased station-use and the large
expansion in very low load density rural electrification, together with
inadp.4uate investment in other transmission and distribution, have increased
system losses. The Bank has stressed the importance of balanced investment
to reduce system losses and improve service quality and will continue to
support transmission and distribution investments designed to achieve these
objectives.
1.06    Over the past two decades, the consumption of electricity has grown
approximately twice as fast as total commercial energy consumption and now
accounts for more than 301 of the latter. Even though the power subsector
receives 20-25X of total public investment, electricity supply has not kept
pace with demand and shortages have been prevalent throughout the country.
Total consumption has grown at an average annual rate of 8X although the
increasing severity of power shortages indicates that potential demand has
grown more rapidly. The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) has forecast
demand growth in the range 10-11 per year between 1984/85 and 1994/95
(Annex 1.2). However, actual growth will continue to be supply constrained.
The principal sectoral shares of total electricity consumption are:
industrial, 571; agricultural, 181; and domestic, 13%1 (Annex 1.1). Agricul-
ture's share has grown steadily owing to increased electrical irrigation
pumping made possible by rural electrification and encouraged by heavy sub-
sidies.
Organization of the Power Subsector
1.07    Responsibility for the supply of electricity is shared between the
Central and State Governments. The state electricity boards (SEBs) and the



-3-
regional electricity boards (REBs) are controlled by states; CEA is
administered by the Department of Power within the Ministry of Energy and the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), the National Hydro-Electric Power
Corporation (NHPC), and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) are
central sector corporations responsible to the Department of Power. SEBs
were instituted under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (the Act), to
promote the development of the power subsector and to regulate private licen-
sees such as the Tata Electric Companies. Although SEBs are supposed to be
autonomous in managing their day-to-day operations, in practice they are
under the control of State Goveraments in such matters as capital investment,
tariffs, borrowings, pay, and personnel policies. As a first step towards
national integration, the SEBs have been grouped into five regional systems,
each coordinated by an REB. Coordination responsibilities include overhaul
and maintenance programs, generation schedules, interstate power transfers
and concomitant tariffs. CEA was created in 1950 to develop national power
policy and to coordinate the various agencies involved in supplying elec-
tricity. It is formally responsible for vetting investment proposals,
providing consulting support to SEBs, assisting in the integration of supply
systems, training of personnel, and research and development. However, in
its execution of these responsibilities, CEA has been severely limited by
shortages of skilled staff and other resources. Without any direct respon-
sibility for the provision of finance it has been unable to assume a very
positive role in the development of the subsector. In view of this, GOI has
decided recently to form the Power Finance Corporation to complement CEA in
fostering development of the subsector (para 1.16). NTPC and NHPC were
formed in 1975 to construct and operate large power stations and associated
transmission facilities. They sell bulk power to the SEBs for distribution.
NTPC has had marked success and although it accounts only for about 5 of
installed capacity it is growing rapidly. In contrast, NHPC is still strug-
gling to establish a role for itself; the states control water rights and are
reluctant to relinquish hydro sites to the Center. This has prompted GOI to
explore joint ventures between the Center and states for the development of
hydro schemes. REC was established in 1969 to coordinate rural electrifica-
tion and provide financial and technical expertise for SEB schemes. Cur-
rently, REC finances more than 701 of total rural electrification investment.
At present there is no organization with responsibility for the development
of a national transmission grid, although GOI is contemplating the formation
of such a body (para 1.17).
Finance and Pricing
1.08    The SEBs as a whole are estimated to have made a combined loss in
1984/85 of approximately Rs 11,230 million (US$935 million) exclusive of
subsidies, corresponding to a return on historically valued net fixed assets
of 2.3Z before interest and -8.11 after interest. Internal cash generation,
which was equivalent to only about 2.71 of capital expenditure in 1984/85,
has been correspondingly poor. Almost all SEB capital expenditure is
financed by debt, primarily loans from state governments. Recognizing the



-4-
unsatisfactory state of 8B finances GOI has, through an amendment _o the Act
notified in April 1985, required SEBs to earn an annual return, after meeting
operating expenses, taxes, depreciation and interest, of at least 3X on their
historically valued net fixed assets (GOI does not accept the principle of
revaluation of assets). The Bank supports this initiative by GOI atd has
changed the form of its financial covenant to reflect this. Although, in
terms of the Bank's conventional method of calculation, the return specified
in the Act generally corresponds to a modest return on revalued assets in the
range of 4 to 6Z, it, nevertheless, represents a very substantial improvement
on current performance. Many SEBs, particularly those of the poorer states,
are expected to experience considerable difficulty achieving this level of
performence. NTPC's tariffs are approximately equal to its long-run marginal
costs (LRMC); however, there are deficiencies in tariff structure and GOI
has agreed to undertake in close cooperatior with the Bank such studies as
may be necessary to address these. As is to be expected from their current
financial performance, SEBs' tariffs do not adequately reflect their LRMCs.
An analysis of 1981 SEB tariffs indicated that they were on average only just
over 501 of LRMC. A nreliminary analysis of 1986 tariffs suggests that they
are now 60-70% of LRMC and achievement of the stipulated rate of return would
improve the average ratio still further. However, the structure of tariffs
is still unsatisfactory. Tariffs are frequently excessively complex and very
little has been done through tariffs either to achieve load managament or to
tap selectively consumers' willingness to pay, which in many cases substan-
tially exceeds existing tariff levels. At the instigation of the Bank, LRMC
tariff studies were carried out for almost all of the states in the late
1970's. However, these studies were generally of poor quality and the Bank
has since endeavoured to agree with GOI on a methodology for LRMC tariff
studies. Progress has been slow because, despite espousing energy prices
"which reflect true costs" its both the Sixth and Seventh Plans, GOI and the
states continue to oppose economic pricing of power for reasons associated
with social and agricultural objectives. In lending to individual SIB's the
Bank will continue to address state-specific programs to improve resource
mobilization, for example, by developing financial programs capable, as a
minimum, of achieving the rate of return specified in the Act. Where higher
returns are both feasible and desirable the Bank will press state governments
to use their discretion under the Act to notify a higher rate of return. so
far as tariff structure is concerned the Bank will continue to require SEBs
to carry out tariff studies wherever tariff structures appear to be badly
distorted, in order to impress on the relevant authorities the true costs of
cross-subsidization. This has been done under both the Chandrapur Thermal
Power Project (Loan 2455-IN) and the Kerala State Power Project
(Loan 2582-IN). However, resistance to economic pricing is such that
progress in pricing reform is likely to be slow (para 1.18).
Power Subsector Planning
1.09    The Bank has consistently encouraged GOI to pursue integrated plan-
ning and coordinated operation of the country's electricity supply systems.



-5-
In response, GOI has prepared a set of regional least cost development plans,
published as the National Power Plan (NPP) in 1983. Although the NPP repre-
sents a good first step towards integrated planning, it needs further refine-
ment and regular updating. In addition, such a plan can only lead to effec-
tive improvements if complemented by measures to bring about coordinated
system operation. At present only the Northern Region is achieving this.
GO0 is encouraging states to reach the necessary agreements on operating
parametors but progress is likely to be slow so long as severe power
shortag.as exist. Even if coordinated intra-regional operation is achieved,
inter-regional transfers will be very difficult without the use of direct
current. facilities to overcome problems of frequency control, The first such
facility, a link between Northern and Western Regions, is a component of the
Central Power Transmission Project (Loan 2283-IN). A second direct current
link has been included in the Rihand Power Transmission Project
(Loan 2535-IN). To facilitate further integration GOI has agreed, under the
latter project, to undertake a study of the long-term development of a
national transmission system and to examine related institutional and commer-
cial issues. Disparities between the long-term NPP, national five-year
plans, short-term budgets and actual performance have been substantial. Owing
to the lack of resources, fewer projects have been included in the five-year
plans than in the NPP and, as a result of inadequate allowance for escalation
and delays in project implementation, still fewer have been executed. The
resulting power deficit has undermined rational planning by necessitating
rapid expansion of supply rather than long-term least-cost development; for
example, shorter gestation thermal plant has been favored at the expense of
lower cost hydro. Furthermore, it has prompted overinvestment in captive
plant, a second best measure leading to excessive use of high value petroleum
products for power generation. In addition to supporting GOI's efforts to
increase the supply of power, the Bank will continue to stress to GOI the
role of pricing and load management in eliminating the deficit, and the
importance of integrating planning and pricing.
Management and Operations
1.10    In contrast to the good performance of NTPC, the SEBs' management and
operationa.l capabilities have not kept pace with the expansion of supply. In
general, SEBs have adequately qualified engineering staff, but lack
experienced personnel in financial planning and control. The relatively low
status and pay of these personnel exacerbates the already significant pay
differential between the public and private sectors and makes it difficult to
recruit competent staff. Management practices are generally outmoded and
inadequate. Accounts have been maintained principally to track cash receipts
and expenditure., and there has been little use of accounting information for
managerial purposes. Consequently, the Bank has encouraged GOI to develop a
new uniform accounting system for SEBs. After initial delays, implementation
is now proceeding. In addition, the Bank will continue to support institu-
tional development programs through lending to individual SEBs.



-6-
1.11    The operations of many SEBs are hamp*. -ed by the poor condition of
their plant and equipment. Factors that have contributed to the poor state
of thermal plant include inadequate maintenance (in part due to capacity
shortages), deficiencies in manufacture, lack of spares, and the poor quality
of coal; in general, these problems have been recognized by the relevant
authorities and corrective steps are being taken. Distribution systems have
suffered from inadequate maintenance and overloading owing to inadequate
investment. Rehabilitation, particularly of thermal plant and distribution
networks, appears to be a very cost-effective way to improve efficiency and
augment system capacity. GOI has recently started to implement a rehabilita-
tion program for thermal plant but is less able to effect improvements in
distribution. The Bank will continue, whenever approptiate, to include
rehabilitation components in its projects.
GOI's Strategy in the Power Subsector
1.12    In essence the Five Year Plan constitutes the only formal statement
of OI's energy and power policies. Although formalization of power policy,
in particular, is made difficult by the constitutional arrangement in which
responsibility for power is shared between Center and states (para 1.07),
the Seventh Plan, nonetheless, reflects a broad consensus of the objectives
of energy and power policies. The principal objectives of GOI's energy
policy are to: (a) develop energy supplies economically at a rate commen-
surate with growth in the economy and social needs; (b) substitute indigenous
energy resources for imported petroleum wherever this is both technically and
economically feasible; and (c) encourage the rational and efficient use of
energy resources. Although power policy is governed by essentially the same
objectives, alleviation (or at least containment) of acute power shortages
suffered nationwide dominates GOI's short-term strategy. Over the longer
term, achievement of least-cost development assumes greater importance. In
addition to the initial step. of its long-term strategy, GOI's short-term
strategy provides for a number of specific measures to address power
shortages, including:
(a) rehabilitation of thermal plant - a program involving some 30 plants
is currently being implemented (para 1.11);
(b)  accelerating the implementation of ongoing projects - a recent reor-
ganization of Government created a new ministry specifically to
monitor and improve implementation of public sector projects;
(c) a more liberal attitude towards captive generation;
(d) permitting the construction of shorter gestation gas or oil-fired
plants (para 1.02); and



-7-
(e) improvirng the quality and reliability of coal supplies, through
implementation of the majority of the recommendations of the Pazal
Committee (para 1.01).
1.13    GOI's long-term strategy requires a blend of policies designed to
address investment, organizational institutional and financial issues. With
respect to investment, resource constraints severely limit the quantum of
investment available to the power si'bsector. The Seventh Plan allocation is
almost exactly half the sum sought by the Working Group on Power, a sum which
was itself inadequate to eliminate power shortages. Long-term investment
priorities are:
(a) accelerated hydro development (para 1.03);
(b) an increased proportion of investment in transmission and distribu-
tion (para 1.05);
(c) the formation of a national grid (para 1.09);
(d) coal beneficiation to improve both quality and homogeneity
(para 1.01);
(e) diversification of the modes in which coal for power generation is
transported, possible examples include the introduction of coastal
shipping or slurry pipelines;
(f) diversification of the fuels used for power generation, GOI now
recognizes that gas fired plant, especially combined cycle, has an
economic role to play in system development (para 1.02); and
(g) steady growth in the development of nuclear power (para 1.04).
1.14    Long-term organizational/institutional and financial issues are more
controversial and GOI still needs to identify clearly defined strategies in
these areas. GOI recognizes the institutional and financial weakness of many
of the SEBs but constitutional constraints limit the rate at which the Center
can bring about improvement. Measures which GOI is following include:
(a) increasing the role of efficient central sector institutions, par-
ticularly NTPC (para 1.07);
(b)  implementation of a uniform system of commercial accounting for all
SEBs (para 1.10);
(c) requiring, through recent amendment of the Act, that 8EBs earn a rate
of return of not less than 3X after all expenses and interest
(para 1.08), a significantly more stringent financial requirement
than hitherto; and



-8-
(d) a more receptive treatment of private sector proposals for power
generation, particularly when it can be demonstrated that such
developments are mobilizing resources which would not otherwise be
available to the public sector.
In addition, GOI has decided to form the Power Finance Corporation as a
financial intermediary serving the subsector (para 1.07). It is expected
that funds lent by the Corporation would be attractive to BEBs because, at
least in part, they would be additional to agreed plan outlays. However,
loans would be subject to conditionality designed to improve the efficiency
and financial strength of beneficiaries.
1.15    GO! recognizes that the development and operation of an integrated
national grid will be difficult to achieve with the present organization of
the subsector and GOI is contemplating the formation of a separate body with
responsibility for the grid (para 1.07).  However, many commercial and
institutional problems remain and, as yet, GOI has no strategy for their
solution; although, under the Rihand Power Transmission Project, GOI has
accepted that these aspects of grid development need to be addressed
(para 1.09).
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Subsector
1.16    The Bank supports the elements of GOI's strategy identified above but
feels that, while each of these elements is desirable, they do not address
all of the serious deficiencies in the subsector. In particular, additional
efforts are needed to address problems in the areas of planning, pricing/load
management, institutional development and finance. The prevalent nature of
these problems suggests that a sector-wide approach should be sought.
However, the comparative autonomy of the states/SEBs from the Center makes it
difficult to achieve progress in this way. With the excepLion of the intro-
duction of uniform comercial accounting in SEBs, few improvements at the
state level have been realized through umbrella projects coordinated by CEA
or REC, primarily owing to the very weak control that these institutions are
able to exercise over SEBs. Consequently, the Bank is changing the mix of
its lending away from such umbrella projects towards a more direct involve-
ment with individual SEBs, where state-specific programs can be designed to
address areas of deficiency. Initial experience with individual SEBs sug-
gests that the prospects for improvement are encouraging. Pricing and finance
are the most problematic areas (para 1.08) and the Bank has indicated that it
will only work with those SEBs that are prepared to improve their financial
performance.
1.17    In parallel with lending to individual SEBs the Bank proposes con-
tinued support for expansion of the central sector, because: (a) increased
reliance of tAe states on central sector generation appears to be the best
way to encourage decisions at the state level consistent with the national



-9-
interest; and (b) a higher proportion of total generation provided at
economic tariffs by the central sector will help to improve tariffs to final
consumers. The difficulties that GOI has experienced in bringing hydro
projects into the central sector mean that NTPC will continue to be the main
vehicle for the Bank's support of the central sector. NTPC's record to date
is impressive. However, it is still far from being a mature institution and,
owing to its rapid development, it will continue to face problems in which it
could benefit from Bank support. In the wider context, the Bank foels that
an institutional review of the pover subsector is needed and it is desirable
that this should include a review of the organization and functions of CEA.
The °ank will also pursue with GOI the possibility of Bank-financed technical
assistance to improve CEA's capabilities.
1.18    In addition to addressing areas in which COI's strategy appears
deficient, it is appropriate that the Bank should focus on aspects of the
strategy already adopted, where the Bank can do most to catalyze progress.
In this respect specific aspects identified include:
(a)  integration of power supply including the formation of the national
grid - the Bank will continue to support projects such as the Central
and Rihand Power Transmission Projects, the latter will afford the
Bank the opportunity for an active involvement in studies of
long-term transmission development (para 1.09);
(b)  accelerated hydro development - by broadening lending operations to
encompass individual SEBs the Bank is able to support hydro projects
and, where the additionality of the Bank's funds to plan outlays is
crucial, it is able to bring about developments which might not
otherwise take place; and
(c)  elements of strategy that involve concerted action by organizations,
both inside and outside the power subsector - the Bank can coordinate
its own lending operations within the different subsectors in order
to improve intersectoral cooperation. Priority examples concern
improvements in coal quality and transportation, and the use of
natural gas for power generation.
Bank Group Participation
1.19    The Bank has made 22 loans (US$2,709 million) and 17 IDA credits
(US$2,409 million) for Indian power projects (Annex 1.3). Nineteen projects
have been completed: 13 generation, 5 transmission, and 2 rural electrifica-
tion. Projects currently under implementation include 12 generation, 3 of
which are hydro, 2 transmission, 1 rural electrification, and the Kerala
Power Project, which includes a broad spectrum of generation, transmission
and distribution. With respect to NTPC projects, the first-phase projects at
Singrauli, Korba, and Ramagundam were commissioned on or ahead of schedule.



-10-
The second-phase extension at these sites, the Farakka, Rihand Power Trana-
mission and Combined Cycle Power Projects are proceeding satisfactorily. The
Third Rural Electrification Project, which has suffered significant procure-
mant problems, is about three years behind schedule.
1.20    A performance audit conducted in 1980 for the Second Power Transmis-
sion Project (Credit 242-IN) concluded that the project succeeded in helping
the nine beneficiary SEBs extend their transmission systems to meet their
growing power requirements. Utilization of generating capacity in these SEBs
exceeded the appraisal forecast. However, the audit highlighted the dif-
ficulties of effecting institutional improvements in the absence of a close
working relationship between the Bank and beneficiary SEBs. Another perfor-
mance audit, conducted in 1985 for the First and Second Rural Electrification
Projects (Credits 572-IN and 911-IN), concluded that India's rural elec-
trification program, of which the projects were a part, has helped the
country to achieve food self-sufficiency, alleviate poverty, and transform
the rural economy. In common with the previo?is audit this also emphasized
that the Bank should devote resources to deal with the SEBs individually.
II.  BENEFICIARIES
Introduction
2.01    Two entities are responsible for electricity operations in the State
of Karnataka, the Karnataka Power Corporation (KPC) and the Karnataka Elec-
tricity Board (KEB). Both are wholly owned by Government of Karnataka (GOK)
and report to the State's Ministry of Power. KPC is responsible for gener-
ation and KEB is responsible for transmission and distribution (para 2.09).
Overall policy is the responsibility of the Ministry of Power and, to ensure
coordination between the two entities in policy implementation, KEB's Chair-
man is a director of KPC (para 2.03) and KPC's Managing Director is a member
of KER's Board of Management (para 2.09).
KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION
Background
2.02    The Karnataka Power Corporationl/, was incorporated in 1971 as a
limited company under the Companies Act. KPC, being the successor to GOK's
1/ Originally known as Mysore Power Corporation, it was renamed in 1974
following the change in the State's name from Mysore to Karnataka.



-11-
Hydro Electric Construction Departments received the assets under construc-
tion of the Sharavathi Hydroelectric Project. Initially the Corporation was
conceived as a construction company, but its activities have expanded into
operation and maintenance of hydro stations, as well as into construction,
operation and maintenance of thermal stations. The Corporation currently
owns and operates six power stations, with a total generating capacity of
2,309 MW, of which 420 MW is ther-al.  KPC's investment program from 1986/87
to 1995/96 (para 4.14) involves the addition of 1,582 MW of hydro electric
capacity and 840 MW of thermal capacity. The Companies Act stipulates, inter
alia, that the affairs of the Corporation be governed by a Board of Directors
ipaa 2.03) and the Chief Minister of Karnataka has normally been the Chair-
man of Board with the Minister of Power as the Vice-chairman. Therefore,
although KPC is not a statutory body, COK exerts considerable influence on
the Corporation's affairs, particularly in the areas of tariffs, planning and
capital expenditure.
Organization
2.03    KPC's organization chart is presented in Annex 2o1.  Its Board of
Directors currently comprises 17 directors, including the Chairman and
Vice-Chairman (para 2.02). Day-to-day management is the responsibility of
the Managing Director, usually a senior officer from the Indian Administra-
tive Service, who serves full-time and is supported by two other full-time
directors, the Finance Director and the Technical Director. Three
secretaries to GOK are part-time Directors, as is KEB's Chairman (para 2.01).
The remaining eight part-time directors are primarily technical experts, five
are members of the Electrical Committee and three are members of the Civil
Committee. The Committees, which together form the Joint Committee, advise
the Managing Director and other members of the Board on technical matters
relating to their respective disciplines.
Personnel and Staffing
2.04    Personnel management is the responsibility of the Company Secretary
who reports to the Managing Director. KPC's personnel at the time of forma-
tion consisted of staff deputed from KEB end GOK's Public Works Department in
addition to the erstwhile Hydro Electric Construction Department staff.
KPC's staffing as of March 31, 1985, is given in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: KPC's Staffing
No. of Personnel             X
Executives                              187                   3
Supervisors                           1,609                  21
Workmen                               5,781                  76
7,577                100
S:XU3 =S



-12-
Of the 7,577 persons employed by KPC, 5,420 (711) were engaged in construc-
tion activities, 1,184 (16%) in operation and maintenance, and 973 (131)
person in other activities. Most of the deputed staff have stayed on a
permanent basis. Further recruitment, dictated by growth in hydropower
activities, was predominantly at iunior levels. In contrast, KPC's recent
expansion into thermal generation has necessitated recruitment of senior
staff. This has been complemented by the extensive use of consultants and
re-training of staff (para 2.08).
Planning
2.05    KPC's planning activities are limited to generation planning to meet
its projected load, which is forecast jointly by CEA and KEB. KPC submits
prefeasibility proposals for projects to GOK and GOI for clearance. Once the
necessary clearances have been obtained, KPC's Investigation Wing prepares
full feasibility reporta including detailed cost estimates. Thereafter, KPC
undertakes project implementation, material and manpower planning. In view
of the substantial increase in its activities, and the complexities in plan-
ning resulting therefrom, the Corporation will introduce computers to aid in
some of its planning activities. The necessary hardware, software and
related technical assistance would be financed under the proposed Project
(para 3.05).
Project Implementation
2.06    KPC has satisfactory project implementation capabilities, par-
ticularly for hydropower projects. In relation to these the Corporation is
guided by a Panel of Experts (POE) which currently includes experts in geol-
ogy, dam design and safety, and hydropower station operation. Specific
deficiencies of [PC's present POE in relation to the proposed Project are
addressed in para 3.07. The Corporation carries out its own detailed design
of hydropower projects and has recently developed a thermal power plant
design function with the help of Tata Consulting Engineers. Erection and
commissioning of electro-mechanical equipment is carried out by KPC's own
personnel, while major civil works are contracted out.
Operation and Maintenance
2.07    KPC has competent personnel to operate and maintain its hydro sta-
tions and its methods and piocedures for operation and maintenance of
individual hydro schemes are generally satisfactory. The Corporation,
however, lacks experience in the modern methiods available for optimizing the
operation of complex interdependent hydro schemes such as there will be in
the Kalinadi basin. Therefore, in order to optimize plant operation in the
Kalinadi Hydro Power Complex, a computerized Generation Management System
would be financed under the proposed Project (para 3.05). As yet KPC also
lacks sufficient experience in operation and maintenance of thermal plants



-13-
since Raichur Thermal Power Station is its introduction to thermal gener-
ation. Accordingly, the Corporation has hired Tata Consulting Engineers to
assist in operation of the Raichur units and to train KPC personnel in opera-
tion and maintenance of thermal plant.
Training
2.08    KPC has established extensive in-house training for hydro plant
operations and maintenance but also makes regular use of external training
both in India and abroad. Training in relation to thermal plant is entirely
external and has included extensive use of GOIts Power Engineers Training
Institute, deputation to other SEB's operating thermal plants and to manufac-
turer's facilities, and use of the 500 MW simulator owned by the Tata Elec-
tric Companies. In addition, Tata Power Projects' Chief Training Officer is
on a two-year deputation to KPC. In contrast with technical training, the
training of finance staff is inadequate, particularly, in relation to finan-
cial planning. To support KPC's efforts to keep abreast of technical
developments and to rectify the deficiencies in financial training, the Bank
would finance an appropriate training program as a component of the proposed
Project (para 3.05).
KARNATAKA ELECTRICITY BOARD
Background
2.09    The Karnataka Electricity Board was formed in 1957 in accordance with
the provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. Subsequent to the
formation of KPC in 1971 (para 2.02), KEB's main function has been to trans-
mit and distribute electricity generated by KPC, as well as imports from
other states and centrally-operated power stations, although the Board also
owns and operates four small hydro electric generating stations with a total
capacity of 206 MW. KEB's system comprises about 16,300 km of transmission
lines and about 261,000 km of distribution lines. As of March 31, 1985, KEB
served about 3.8 million connections comprising: 2.4 million domestic; 0.4
million commercial; 0.2 million industrial, 0.4 million public lighting; and
0.4 million agricultural. Legally, KEB is an autonomous entity reporting to
GOK's Ministry of Power. However, although KEB enjoys considerable independ-
ence in managing its day-to-day affairs, GOK strongly influences decisions
relating to pricing, planning, capital expenditure and staffing.
Organization
2.10    KEB's Board of Management is responsible for establishing internal
policies. The Board of Management cov'sists of seven official members, three
of whom - the Chairman, Member (Finance) and Member (Technical) - serve full
time. The four part time members comprise three secretaries to GOK and the
Managing Director of KPC (para 2.01). Additionally, the leader of KEB's



-14-
largest labour union is an unofficial member. Implementation of policies is
the responsibility of seven chief engineers, a Chief Vigilance Officers a
Director of Research and a Financial Advisor/Chief Accounts Officer. Four of
the chief engineers are zonal chief engineers in charge of operation, main-
tenance and capital works (except rural electrification) in the four zones
into which the state is divided. The Chief Engineer (Rural Electrification)
is responsible for the preparation and implementation of rural electrifica-
tion schemes throughout the State.
2.11    In 1984, KEB was reorganized to: (a) facilitate decentralized deci-
sion making; (b) improve control of critical areas of operation, e.g.
materials management (para 2.16); and (c) broaden the responsibilities of
the zonal chief engineers to include capital works (prior to reorganization,
their responsibilities were limited to operation and maintenance). The
Roard's revised organization chart is presented in Annex 2.2. Although the
benefits of the reorganization are yet to be fully realized, some progress
can be seen, particularly in materials management (para 2.16). However, one
impediment to realizing the full benefits of reorganization and the recently
introduced commercial accounting system (para 4.20) is the absence of a
modern management information system (MIS). An MIS, commensurate with the
new organizational structure, is needed to establish appropriate reporting
arrangements and streamline information flows within the Board. GOR. agreed,
during negotiations, to cause KEB to engage consultants, by June 30, 1988, to
develop and implement a modern Management Information System for the Board,
in accordance with terms of reference and a timetable satisfactory to the
Bank (para 6.04(a)).
Personnel and Staffing
2.12    KEB's staffing as of March 31, 1985, distributed according to skills,
is presented in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2: KEB Staffing
No. of Employees          x
Engineers and Professionals             6,979               16
Technicians                             7,612               18
Clerical and Technical Support        28,204               66
Total                         42,875              100
Of the 42,875 persons employed by the Board, about 36,000 are regular
employees and the remainder are contracted for particular construction works.
In addition, KEB employs about 3,500 casual labourers for construction works.
KEB's consumer to employee ratio in March 1985 stood at 79:1, which is an
improvement over 65:1 in March 1981. This improvement is primarily
attributable to the general hiring freeze imposed by GOK in 1981, since when



-15-
the Board's consumer base has increased at an average rate of 2759000 per
year. Although the hiring freeze has been fairly strict, the policy is
flexible enough to enable KEB to hire key personnel where necessary, par-
ticularly in areas of finance, accounting and materials management.
Planning
2.13    KEB's planning function is the responsibility of the Chief Engineer,
General (Electricity) and the Planning Cell is headed by a superintending
engineer. KEB's planning activities have primarily focussed on high voltage
transmission lines and substations. While transmission planning has been
generally satisfactory KEB would benefit fron. periodic specialist advice in
the areas of protection and reactive compensation. The proposed Project
includes consultancy services for this purpose (para 3.05). KBE's distribu-
tion planning, currently carried out manually, would benefit greatly from
the introduction of computerized planning techniques. This would be achieved
under the proposed Project through training provided by consultants engaged
to prepare a Distribution Master Plan for Bangalore and to provide super-
visory assistance for the preparation of similar plans for other cities in
Karnataka (para 3.05). GOK agreed, during negotiations, to cause KEB to
engage consultants, by October 31, 1987, to prepare a Distribution Master
Plan for Bangalore and train KEB personnel in modern methods of distribution
planning (para 6.04(b)).
Operation and Maintenance
2.14    Operation and Maintenance (O&I) is carried out by 8 O&M circles
(2 per zone) each headed by a superintending engineer. Operation and correc-
tive maintenance of the transmission system are generally satisfactory. KXl
has an adequate system for organising preventive maintenance and is In the
process of computerizing this. As regards distribution, only corrective
maintenance is being undertaken and any form of preventive maintenance plan-
ning would currently be quite difficult given the absence of proper technical
data e.g. detailed network maps. Therefore, the proposed Project would
assist the Board to update, or in many cases re-establish, technical data on
its distribution system (para 3.05).
Load Dispatch
2.15    In addition to operation of the transmission and distribution net-
works KEB is also responsible for load dispatch in the State. In principle
the Southern Region Electricity Board (SREB) is responsible for coordinating
load dispatch among the States in the Southern Region (Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala). However, none of the States nor the Sill
has adequate facilities to optimize load dispatch. Dispatch centres are old
and ill-equipped and telemetering and communication systems are wholly inade-
quate. To rectify this deficiency and facilitate integrated operation of
power stations in the Southern Region it is desirable that modern compatible



-16-
load dispatc' facilities should be established. The SREB, with the technical
support of CRA, has recently completed a prefeasibility study for such
facilities. This has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. The
next step is a full design study and consultancy services for this would be
financed by the Bank as part of the proposed Project (para 3.05). As the
facilities should serve the whole of the Southern Region, not just Karnataka,
it is appropriate that CEA rather than KEB should be the executing agency for
this study.
Materials Management
2.16    Prior to reorganization (para 2.11), the Chief Engineer, Electricity
(General) was in charge of materials management in addition to planning,
commercial and administrative activities. Consequently, materials management
received inadequate attention, resulting in unsatisfactory materials supply
which in turn necessitated field offices making local purchases. Such pur-
chases were often of dubious propriety and frequently involved substandard
materials. KEB's reorganization assigned responsibility for mate'ials manage-
ments to the newly created position of Chief Engineer, Electricity (Materials
Management and Purchases). This position is responsible not only for
procurement but also for the distribution of materials. The revised arrange-
ments have resulted in improvements to both the supply and quality of
materials. More recently, KEB has started to computerize its inventory
control, initially with transmission and distribution line materials, con-
stituting about 50% of total purchases. Additionally, codes have been estab-
lished for all inventory items with a view to total computerization of inven-
tory control.
Training
2.17    KEB trains its lower level staff i.e. technicians, meter readers,
operators etc. at its own training centers. Two of the training centers are
situated in Bangalore and one each in Hubli, Mangalore and Gulbarga.
Engineers are traineu on entry to the Board but, prior to 1983, received
almost no subsequent training. In 1983 about 150 engineers attended a 5-week
training program on technical aspects of electricity utility management,
sponsored by GOI's Ministry of Power, at the Indian Institute of Management,
Bangalore. KEB is currently organizing to repeat this program on a regular
basis. As noted in para 2.13 training in distribution planning would be
provided by the consultants responsible for preparation of the Bangalore
Distribution Master Plan (para 3.05). Training of financial personnel is
inadequate and this shortcoming would also be addressed under the proposed
Project (para 3.05).



-17-
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01    Karnataka has no indigenous coal resources and so, apart from imports
from NTPC or neighboring states, it has been primarily dependent for power on
the development of its own hydro resources. These are economically attrac-
tive but delays in project preparation have left the State with chronic power
shortages. The typical energy cut that KEB has had to impose on large con-
sumers has increased from around 25% in 1981/82 to 75% in 1985/86, a trend
mirrored in applications for captive plant, which have grown from about 5 MW
in 1981/82 to 150 MW in 1985/86. While, as a second best measure, it is
desirable that industries should be permitted to invest in captive plant,
this leads to the use of high value fuels and is an expensive way to meet the
State's power requirements. The rising demand for captive plant underscores
the importance of accelerating the development of low cost hydro resources
for the public supply system.
3.02    The Kalinadi basin offers particularly attractive opportunities for
hydro development. KPC has planned its development in three stages.
Stage-I, including construction of the Supa dam, is nearing completion. This
dam will provide very large storage at the head of the Kalinadi river and
allow downstream sites with minimal storage to be utilized throughout the
year.  Three sites were initially identified by KPC for development in
Stage-II and were posed to the Bank. Since then a private industry has
expressed interest in developing one of these sites (Dandeli) and GOK is
waiting for a decision on this from GOI. The remaining two sites, Kadra and
Kodasalli, are included in the proposed Project. Plans for Stage-Ill, which
would involve tributaries to the Kalinadi. are still very tentative owing to
significant environmental probloms. Following completion of Stage-II there
will be six reservoirs and five power stations in the Kalinadi basin.
Optimisation of the output of these interdependent schemes, together with
those in Stage-III should they materialise, will require a sophisticated
control system.
3.03    Karnataka, in common with most other states in India, has failed to
develop its transmission and distribution systems at a rate commensurate with
growth in generation. Consequently, these systems have become increasingly
overloaded, resulting in an adverse effect on system losses which have
recently been estimated at approximately 22% of net generation. At the
request of the Bank, KEB has prepared a transmission plan for inclusion in
the proposed Project, which would not just serve to evacuate power from
Kalinadi but would also reinforce the existing grid and reduce system losses.
The plan will greatly strengthen transmission between the generation complex
in the northwest of Karnataka and the State's largest load center, Bangalore,
in the southeast. The growth in demand in Bangalore, which has been the
fastest growing city in India, has strained not just the transmission system



-18-
but also the local distribution system. Therefore, KEB needs to develop a
distribution master plan for Bangalore.
Project Objectives
3.04    The principal objectives of the proposed Project are to:
(a) alleviate power shortages in Karnataka and the Southern Region by
exploiting low cost indigenous hydro resources;
(b) provide efficient transmission capacity to evacuate power from the
Kalinadi complex and reduce system losses;
(c) extend the life and make fuller use of the Sharavathi power station;
(d) optimise generation from the Kalinadi complex;
(e) prepare plans for more efficient distribution;
(f) effect institutional, operational and financial improvements in
relation to both KPC and KEB; and
(g) progress towards more efficient use of the Southern Region's gener-
ation facilities.
Project Description
3.05    The proposed Project comprises:
(a) construction of a 3 x 40 NW hydro scheme at Kodasalli;
(b)  construction of a 3 x 50 MW hydro scheme at Kadra;
(c) resettlement, rehabilitation and compensatory afforestation measures
associated with (a) and (b);
(d) renovation of the existing Sharavathi hydro power station involving,
inter alia, replacement of stator coils, excitation systems and
instruments ;
(e) implementation of a computerized generation management scheme for
the complete Kalinadi complex, including installation of 'System
Control and Data Acquisition' (SCADA) equipment and associated com-
munications;
(f) computerization of management information and accounting systems and
certain planning activities in KPC;



-19-
(g) execution of a training program for KPC;
(h) consultancy services for (a) to (g) above and advice on treatment
to reduce seepage from the Talakalale dam;
(i) conatruction of:
* i)  about 570 kms of single and double circuit 400-kV line; and
(ii) about 300 kis of single and double circuit 220-kV line
together with associated substations;
(j) consultancy services for:
(i) the design and construction supervision of 400-kV lines and
substations;
(ii)  preparation of a distribution master plan for 8angalore
followed by supervisory assistance for further distribution
planning by KEB; and
(iii) advice on protection and compensation aspects of transmis-
sion;
(k)  implementation of an institutional development program for KEB,
including acquisition of data processing facilities, consultancy and
training services for:
(i) development of a system for maintaining technical records;
(ii) establishment of proper fixed asset registers;
(iii) establishment of a management information system;
(iv) an organization and management study for the finance func-
tion;
(v) computerization of certain activities in planning, opera-
tional statistics, accounting and inventory control; and
(vi) a tariff and metering study;
(1) consultancy services for the design of load dispatch arrangements
for the Southern Region.
3.06    KPC would be responsible for items (a) to (h), KEB for (i) to (k) and
CIA, (1). A detailed description of the proposed Project is given in
Annex 3.1.



-20-
Project Engineering
3.07    Engineering of the two hydro schemes is generally at the bidding
level and designs have been prepared by KPC with assistance from the Central
Water Commission (CWC) and CEA. KPC has appointed a five member panel of
experts (POE), essentially the same as for Kalinadi Stage-I, and, while the
Bank is satisfied that the members of the panel are competent in their
respective fields, the panel as a whole does not possess adequate skills in
engineering geology and foundation engineering. During negotiations, KPC
agreed to appoint experts in engineering geology and foundation engineering
to the POE by July 31, 1987 (para 6.05(a)).  There is a limestone formation
at Kodasalli which, if not properly treated, might cause leakage from the
reservoir.  While the cost estimates include an adequate allowance for treat-
ment, further investigations are required to decide whether treatment is
required and, if so, the appropriate type of treatment.  The Bank and KPC
have agreed a program for these investigations, which KPC is currently carry-
ing out. At negotiations KPC agreed to cause the POE to review the results
of these investigations, prepare a report recommending treatment, should any
be necessary, and furnish this report to the Bank by November 30, 1987
(para 6.05(b)). Engineering for the rehabilitation of the Sharavathi power
station is at the bidding level. Engineering for the transmission components
is generally at the feasibility level. The detailed route survey is
presently underway.
Project Implementation and Construction Schedule
3.08    The Project will be implemented over a period of 8 years.  The hydro
components will be implemented by KPC with engineering support from CWC and
CEA. Preparatory works such as access roads, camps etc. are well advanced
and will be completed before commencement of civil works. KPC has already
awarded the contract for the civil works for the Kadra dam, which is being
partially financed by the Kuwait Fund. Construction is due to start shortly.
Civil works on the Kodasalli dam are expected to begin in March 1988. The
Kadra power station is expected to be commissioned in September 1994 and the
Kodasalli power station in December 1994. A detailed implementation schedule
is given in Annex 3.2 (Table 1). KPC has experience of hydro schemes more
complex than those included in the proposed Project, e.g. Kalinadi Stage-I.
KPC's project organisation would be the same as for Kalinadi Stage-I and the
timing is such that Stage-I will be completed as Stage-II begins. The Bank
is satisfied that KPC has the capability to complete the hydro components
according to the indicated schedule. KEB would implement the transmission
component of the proposed Project over a period of about 8 years. The first
line to be constructed would be the Davangere - Cauribidanur 220-kV line.
The transmission towers for this, which will not be financed by the Bank,
have already been ordered. Lines directly related to the evacuation of power
from the Kalinadi area will be constructed towards the end of the project
period with completion expected in mid 1994. The implementation schedule for



-21-
the transmission lines is given in Annex 3.2 (Table 2). KEB has adequate
experience in the design and construction of 220-kV lines and associated
substations but does not have adequate experience at 400 kV. KEB has agreed
to employ consultants to assist in the design and construction supervision of
the 400-kV facilities.
Water Rights
3.09    The Kalinadi River lies entirely within the State of Karnataka.  GOK
owns the water rights and will charge KPC a royalty of 4 Paisa/kWh. There
are no pending water rights disputes that could affect the Project's con-
struction or operation. The Kodasalli and Kadra schemes are contiguous and
the tailrace of the Kadra scheme is very close to sea level. Consequently,
apart from the sections of the river submerged the only part of the river
affected by the Project's operation will be a short estuary. As the two
reservoirs will generally be kept full to maintain the head for generation,
they will provide little regulation and the effect on the estuary will be
minimal.
Resettlement
3.10    Kalir.adi Stage-I involved the resettlement of some 9000 people and is
reported to be just about complete. Kalinadi Stage-II, included in the
proposed Project, will displace just under 2000 people (544 families) living
in some 19 villages. Of these villages, 7 will be fully submerged and 12
partially affected. It appears that the residual sections of the 12 par-
tially affected villages will remain viable but KPC has given an assurance
that resettlement provisions will be extended to complete villages if
residual sections are not viable. The affected population comprises 468 land
owning families and 76 landless. Their production system is dominated by
paddy cultivation on irrigated alluvial fans or dry uplands and areca nut
plantations. The affected families obtain forest products such as dead
leaves, seasonal fruits etc. from 'gowlis' 1/ living nearby. Submergence
will not directly displace these gowlis and it appears unlikely that their
means of subsistence will be significantly affected by the displacement of
local farmers. However, this will be monitored during the course of project
implementation and KPC has given an assurance that the living standards of
gowlis will be maintained.
3.11    KPC has prepared a resettlement plan which goes significantly beyond
the statutory provisions of GOI and GOK law and will make replacement
1/ The gowlis are a forest-dwelling people in the upper catchment areas
whose economic activities center on livestock rearing, seasonal employ-
ment on farms and with the Forest Department, and collecting and selling
minor forest products.



-22-
agricultural lands available to all displaced people who wish to be resettled
in this way. A detailed description of the resettlement plan, which was
prepared in close consultation with the Bank, is presented in Annex 3.3.
Essentially three main resettlement options will be offered to the displaced
population: (a) self-resettlement in a place of their own choosing;
(b) resettlement to irrigated replacement agricultural lands; and (c) train-
ing and assistance for jobs in small businesses, industries or trade. A
detailed breakdown of preferences will be available after the full census of
the affected population is completed. Preliminary estimates indicate that:
approximately 100, primarily wealthier, land owning families will elect
self-resettlement and receive increased cash compensation; the large
majority, Just under 400 families, will opt for replacement land; and
approximately 50 families will choose to leave agriculture to enter small
businesses etc., availing themselves of training or other assistance.
3.12    To accommodate those opting for replacement land KPC has identified
eight sites (613 ha) located along the Gangavali River about 40 kilometers
from the Kalinadi Basin. The land identified, which has already been trans-
ferred to KPCt is vacant and will therefore not involve any further displace-
ment of people. The sites will be irrigated and are suitable for paddy,
pulses and garden crops such as areca nut. Up to 2 ha will be allocated to
each family depending on the amount of land lost and landless families or
those with very small holdings will be given 0.8 ha. In addition to prepar-
ing agricultural plots KPC will instigate social forestry projects to provide
fuelwood, thus protecting local forest resources, and establish grazing areas
for some 1600 head of cattle owned by the displaced population. Detailed
development plans for the new sites will be prepared during the first year of
the resettlement program in consultation with the concerned departments of
GOK, and will include irrigation systems, primary schools, high school,
hospital, village panchyat office, provision of potable water and electricity
and improved road communications. To facilitate good community relations in
the receiving areas, infrastructural facilities etc. will be extended to the
host population. Agricultural land will be prepared manually to avoid top
soil loss and compaction. Displaced people will be employed both for this
and, to the maximum extent possible, for other development activities in
order to provide employment during the transition period. Transfer is
expected to take place in 1990 which is consistent with the construction
schedules for the Kadra and Kodasalli dams (Annex 3.2).
3.13    GOK has constituted a high level committee to oversee Stage-II reset-
tlement. KPC's Kalinadi Project Engineer will serve as Member-Secretary and
the displaced population will be represented by prominent local farmers. KPC
is experienced in resettlement and has proposed a training program for its
own staff which will draw on lessons learned in Stage-I. KPC will appoint a
senior officer, trained in social science techniques, to design and implement
a system to monitor both the progress of physical works and the well-being of
displaced families, providing semi-annual reports. In addition KPC has
agreed to engage a suitably qualified evaluation team, independent of the



-23-
Project and satisfactory to the Bank. Evaluation will begin in the year
prior to transfer and will be conducted on an annua' basis. Both semi-annual
monitoring and annual evaluation reports will be provided to the Bank for
review and comment.
3.14    The resettlement plan prepared by KPC and approved by GOK is accept-
able to the Bank. During negotiations, GOK agreed to implement, or cause the
implementation of, the resettlement plan agreed with the Bank (para 6.03(a)).
Forestry
3.15    The Kodasalli and Kadra schemes involve the submergence of 1293 ha
and 2888 ha of forest land, respectively, for which clearances by GOI's
Department of Forests and Wildlife (DOFW) are required under the Forest
(Conservation) Act, 1980. These clearances have now been obtained. In
addition, DOFW clearance is also required in relation to circa 710 ha of
forest land needed for associated transmission lines included in the proposed
Project. A formal appli^ation for this has been submitted following the
recent completion of the alignment survey and the enumeration of trees to be
cut. DOFW has given "in principle" clearance for the transmission lines and
discussions are underway concerning the possibility of minor variations in
alignment. Formal DOFW clearance for these lines is not required before
October 1988, but any further delay beyond that date would adversely affect
the Project. Consequently, the absence of formal DOFW clearance for the
transmission lines after October 31, 1988, is specified as an 'event of
suspension' in the loan agreement. Under the Forest (Conservation) Act,
1980, KPC is required to undertake compensatory afforestation for forest land
submerged, and this has been included in the proposed Project (para 3.05).
In accordance with GOI's guidelines compensatory afforestation may be carried
out on a one-for-one basis on non-forest land or on a two-for-one basis on.
denuded forest land. KPC is exercising the latter option and intends to
engage the services of the Government of Karnataka's Department of Forests
(GOKDF) to undertake the work. GOKDF has identified suitable denuded forest
land for this purpose and has prepared an appropriate implementation plan
together with cost estimates. These have been reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactoryr
Other Environmental Aspects
3.16    Subject to certain safeguards, the Project has been cleared by GOI's
Department of Environment. In order to ensure that these and other environ-
mental safeguards are adhered to, COK has formed a committee tnder the chair-
manship of its Chief Secretary. Malaria, filaria and Japanese encephalitis
are all possible in the project area and appropriate preventive and contain-
ment measures will be taken including the establishment of health units at
each construction site. There are industries upstream whose effluents may
affect water quality in the Kadra and Kodasalli reservoirs and there are
plans to build a power station that will use the Kadra reservoir for cooling



-24-
water. During negotiations, GOI gave an assurance that the relevant
regulatory authorities will monitor all existing or future sources of pollu-
tion, that may materially affect water quality in the Kadra and Kodasalli
reservoirs, and ensure that GOI's environmental standards are adhered to
(para 6.02). Forest cover around the reservoirs is good and 0OK has in hand
adequate watershed conservation measures, including a 30 year ban on tree
felling and cessation of mining operations in the vicinity. Erosion and
sedimentation are not expected to be a problem. With respect to wildlife,
DOFW has carried out exhaustive studies of the project area and has concluded
that while some rare species such as panthers, tigers, bison and migratory
elephants live in the general vicinity of the proposed Project their
incidence is restricted to higher elevations, typically above 450 m. There-
fore submergence, which will be at elevations of about 75 m and 35 m for
Kodasalli and Kadra respectively, will have no material effect on wildlife.
Furthermore studies of animal movements in the area indicate that there is no
natural corridor across the Kalinadi River, which would be affected by the
Project.
Project Costs
3.17    Table 3.1 shows a summary of project costs.  The total cost of the
Project including physical and price contingencies (but excluding about US$86
million equivalent of taxes and duties) is US$523 million equivalent, of
which US$191 million (37%) represents the direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs. Interest during construction adds US$338 million to the
financing required. The Project costs are based on December 1986 forecast
prices which were derived from: (a) actual quotations for the civil works
of the Kadra and Kodasalli schemes; (b) recent quotations for works and
equipment similar to other project components; and (c) manufacturers'
proforma quotations. Quantities were obtained from designs at tender level
in the case of the hydro schemes and feasibility level in the case of the
transmission component. The cost of consulting services is based on an
estimated total of 660 man-months, of which about 210 man-months are expected
to be from expatriate experts. Average costs have been estimated at
US$14,000 per expatriate man-month and US$2,000 per local man-month inclusive
of fees, overheads and expenses. An allowance has also been made for non
time based services. An amount of just over 101 of the base cost has been
assumed for engineering and administration. Physical contingencies of 10% on
civil works and 5% on mechanical and electrical equipment have been allowed,
amounting to about 61 of the base cost. Physical contingencies for civil
works are in line with the generally advanced status of design, the degree of
knowledge of the site geology and the relatively simple nature of the works
to be executed. Price contingencies, which amount to about 31% of the base
cost, are based on the following expected annual inflation rates: (a) local
costs - 1985/86, 5%; 1986/87, 6X; 1987/88, 6.8%; 1988/89, 6.8%; 1989/90, 7%;
1990/91, 7.1%; 1991/92-1995/96, 4%; and (b) foreign costs - 1985, 1.3%; 1986,
7.21; 1987, 6.8%; 1988, 6.8%; 1989, 7%; 1990, 7.1%; 1991-95, 4%. Interest
during construction has been calculated on the basis that loan finance for



-25-
the Project will bear an interest rate of 11.51 per annum, which is the
current interest rate for GOK loans to KPC and KEB (paras 4.12 and 4.35).
Annex 3.4 presents detailed project cost estimates.
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total
(Rupees Million)         (US$ Million)
Investment Costs:
Land, Resettlement, Rehabilitation    122        1    123      9.4    0.0    9.4
Afforestation                            75      1      76     5.7    0.1    5.8
Civil Works                           1,024    177  1,201    78.8   13.6   92.4
Turbine-Generator Sets                  232    926  1t158    17.8   71.3   89.1
Mechanical Equipment                    192     37    229    14.8    2.8   17.6
Electrical Equipment                     80     66    146      6.2    5.0   11.2
Generation Management System             29     80    109      2.2    6.1    8.4
Sharavathi Rehabilitation                95    271    366      7.3   20.9   28.2
Transmission Lines 400 kV               771     86    857    59.3    6.6   65.9
Transmission Lines 220 kV               109     12    121      8.4    0.9    9.3
Substation 400 kV                       538     47    585    41.4    3.6   45.0
Substation 220 kV                       106     12    118      8.2    0.9    9.1
Service & Maintenance Equip.             10      8     18      0.8    0.6    1.4
Computing Facilities                      1      2      3      0.0    0.1    0.1
Training                                  4      8      12     0.3    0.6    0.9
Consultancy                              30     42     72      2.3    3.3    5.6
Engineering & Administration            581      6    587    44.7    0.5   45.2
Total Base Line Costs                 3,999  1,781 .5,780   307.6  137.0  444.6
Physical Contingencies             224      99    323    17.2    7.6   24.8
Pric6 Contingencies              19210    607  1,817    93.1   46.7  139.8
Total Project Costs                   5,433  2,487  7,920   417.9  191.3  609.2
Interest during Construction
Bank                               -  2,352  2,352        -  1l0.9  180.9
Other                          2,042       -  2,042   157.1       -  157.1
Total Financing Required              7,475  4,839 12,314   575.0  372.2  947.2
====  3m=um u====   ===   ==u=  =5Z3
Project Financing
3.18    The proposed Bank financing for the Project amounts to US$330 million
equivalent, representing about 391 of the total project financing require-
ments, net of duties and taxes. This is equivalent to the estimated foreign



-26-
costs of US$191 million plus US$139 million of local costs. The Bank loan
would be lent to GOI. About US$1 million would be retained by GOI to finance
consultancy services for the design of integrated load dispatch arrangements
for the Southern Region, for which CEA would act as executing agency. The
balance of about US$329 million would be enlent to the Government of
Karnataka (C0K) which would in turn onlend approximately US$197 million to
KPC and US$132 million to KEB. The project financing plan is given in
Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Project Financins Plan
(US$ Million equivalent)
I of
Component
Source                            Local   Foreign   Total   Financing
(a) KPC Component
IBRD                                  -    197.2    197.2        29
Kuwait Fund                           -     27.0      27.0        4
KPC                                85.0         -     85.0       13
00K                               285.2     85.6    370.8        54
Subtotal                          370.2    309.8    680.0       100
(b) KEB Component
IBRD                               70.2     61.7    131.9        50
K3B                                55.9         -     55.9       21
s0K                                78.5        -      78.5       29
Subtotal                          204.6    .61.7    266.3       100
(c) CiA Component
IBRD                                0.2      0.7       0.9      100
Project Total                     575.0    372.2    947.2
===u     u===    =m===
Procurement
3.19    Procurement arrangements for the proposed Project are summarized in
Table 3.3.



TabLe 3.3: PROCURENENT ARLANEMEENTS
(MILLION OF USS) 1/
.................................. ................................................................................... .................................................... ...................................................
PROCUREMENT METNOD
ICB                 LCB                OTHER              N.A.               TOTAL
Contracts   Bank    Contracts  Bank   Contracts  Bank   Contracts  Bank   Contracts  Bank
Value     Finance   Value   Finance   Vatue  Finance    Value   Finance   Value   Finance
........................ ......................................................... .................................................................................. ..................................................
A. PRELIMINARY WORKS:
Land, Resettlement, Rehabilitation 2/                                3.2      3.2      8.7       0.8      0.0               11.9      4.0
Roads, Site Preparation, Camps                                      15.3                                                    15.3       0.0
Afforestation                                                                           8.5      4.3                         8.5       4.3
B.  CIVIL AND ERECTION WORKS:
Kadra DO                                                            51.4                0.0                                 51.4       0.0
Kodasait Dam                                   42.0       28.3                                                              42.0      28.3
Power Houses & Switch Yards                    19.0       12.9                                                              19.0      12.9
Trans. Lines & Suhstations                                          27.1                                                   -27.1       0.0
C.  EQUJIPNENT AND MATERIALS
Turbine Generator Sets                        126.4       88.5                                                             126.4     88.5
HNydraulic SteeL Structures                    23.0       16.1                                                              23.0      16.1
Cranes & Other Pech. Equip.                     2.5        1.8                                                               2.5       1.6
Transformers & Switch Gear                     67.5       57.0                                                              67.5      57.0
Panets, Cables and Other Elec. Equip.           5.8        4.1                                                               5.8       4.1
Switch Yard Struct. & Site Electrif.                                 2.3                                                     2.3       0.0
SCADA & Communication Equip.                   12.2        9.7                                                              12.2       9.7
Generator Replacement Parts                    34.2       23.9                                                              34.2      23.9
Power Stuices, Sharavathi                                            1.8                                                     1.8       0.0
Steel T4wers                                   32.1       25.4                                                              32.1      25.4
Substation Structures                                                1.8                                                     1.8       0.0
Conductors & Other T.L. Nat                    56.3       44.0                                                              56.3     44.0
Power Line Commaication System                  1.4        1.2                                                               1.4       1.2
Service & Maintenance Vehicles                                       1.4                                                     1.4       0.0
Survey & Computing Facilities                                                          0.6       0.5                         0.6       O.5
D. TRAINING                                                                                 1.3      1.3                          1.3      1.3
E. CONSULTANCY                                                                              7.1      7.1                         7.1       7.1
F.  ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                                                                           56.4               56.4       0.0
TOTAL                                         422.5      312.9    104.3       3.2     26.1      13.9     56.4              609.2    330.0
.......................... ..................................................   ....... ................
1/ Figures subject to rounding errors.
2/ Other procurement includes land acquisitiontcompensation not financed
by the Bank and force account employment of oustees financed by the Bank



-28-
With the exception of compensatory afforestation, resettlement, some survey
and computing facilities, consultancy services and training, all Bank
financed procuremenr would be subject to ICB. As noted, KPC intends to
employ GOKDF to undertake the compensatory afforestation and the Bank is
satisfied that this is the most economic way to execute this project com-
ponent (para 3.15). With the exception of land clearance, land development
and soil conservation, Bank financed resettlement works, services and equip-
ment would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Land clearance etc. would be carried out under force
account to provide employment for displaced people during transition
(para 3.12). Survey and computing facilities up to an aggregate cost of
US$750,000 may be procured through international or local shopping procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Consultants will be selected and engaged in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Major local firms are expected to bid
for the civil works and most of the equipment supply contracts. Foreign
suppliers will not be precluded from participating in LCB. About 701 of
works and services for the Project will be procured under ICB. Domestic
preference of 151 or the corresponding import duty, whichever is less, would
be applied in bid comparison for equipment contracts subject to ICB. Domes-
tic preference of 7.5% would apply to civil works contracts subject to ICB.
All civil work contracts with an estimated cost of US$5 million or more
equivalent and all equipment contracts of US$1 million or more equivalent
will be subject to the Bank's prior review.  Prior review will apply to more
than 90Z of the estimated value of Bank financed contracts. The remainder
will be subject to selective post-award review, Procurement timetables are
presented in Annex 3.5.
Disbursements
3.20     Disbursement of Bank funds would be made against:  (a) 100% of the
CIF (ex-factory if manufactured in India) cost of equipment and materials
procured under ICB and LIB; (b) 70% of the cost of civil works subject to
ICB; (c) 100% of eligible expenditures on resettlement and rehabilitation 1/;
(d) 50X of the costs of compensatory afforestation; and (e) 100% of the cost
of consultants' and training services. Disbursements will be fully docu-
mented except for: (a) payments under civil works contracts or the compen-
satory afforestation contract for one or more progress payments not exceeding
Rs 600,000 each; and (b) payments for locally procured equipment and services
not exceeding Rs 300,000 each. Such disbursements will be made against
statements of expenditures (SOEs), the documentation of which will not be
submitted to the Bank Group but retained for inspection by the supervision
1/ Eligible items include those subject to LCB and land clearance etc.
carried out under force account by displaced people. Land acquisition
and compensation costs will not be eligible for Bank disbursement.



-29-
missions. Standard procedures for auditing SOEs will apply. Annex 3.6 shows
the estimated disbursements schedule as derived from the construction
program, assuming normal commercial payment terms. The Bank has agreed to
finance retroactively up to US$5 million of eligible project expenditures
prior to loan signature including those related to: (a) procurement of steel
plates for the Kadra and Kodasalli penstocks, (b) procurement of conductors
and insulators for the Davangere-Gauribidanur line, and (c) consultancy
services for project preparation/design and the preparation of a Distribution
Master Plar. for Bangalore. The aggregate disbursement profile for the
Project, given in Annex 3.6, fits closely a blend of standard profiles for
hydro and transmission projects. A comparison of disbursement profiles for
the KPC and KEB components with appropriate standard profiles is also given
in Annex 3.6. The closing date will be December 31, 1995.
Project Operation
3.21    The Kodasalli and Kadra hydro plants will form an integrated part of
the Kalinadi hydropower complex, within which operations will be coordinated
through the use of the SCADA equipment included in the proposed Project. The
total caichment area of the Kalinadi river is about 4,440 km , including
1,049 km of independent drainage belonging to Kodasalli and Kadra, respec-
tively. Kodasalli and Kadra are located in the lower course of the river and
will receive inflows from their independent drainage areas as well as regu-
lated flows from reservoi s upstream.  Supa, the head reservoir, has live
storage of circa 4,000 Mm , equivalent to the average annual flow at that
point in the river. I dependent annual inflows to Kodasalli and Kadra are
2,550 Mm3 and 1,650 Mm , respectively. Just over 90% of unregulated flows
would occur during the monsoon period (June to September). Both plants will
operate as run-of-river base load plants during the monsoon and as peaking
plants during the dry season. Kodasalli and Kadra will generate on average
512 GWh pa and 570 GWh pa, respectively. Kodasalli will provide 58 KW of
firm power in the dry season and Kadra 62 MW.
Project Monitoring
3.22    During negotiations, KPC and KEB agreed to furnish to the Bank
quarterly progress reports covering physical works, consultancy services,
costs, disbursements and administrative aspects of the Project (paras 6.04(c)
and 6.05(c)). The first quarterly report would relate to the quarter ending
December 31, 1987. In addition, there would be annual financial and
administrative reports.
Project Risks
3.23    There are no extraordinary technical risks associated with the
Project, which does not involve any engineering technology beyond the limits
of well known practices. With the exception of the limestone formation at
Kodasalli, which is the subject of specific investigations (para 3.07), the



-30-
geological information is adequate and indicates good conditions. KPC and
KEB have sufficient staff experienced in supervising and executing most of
the project components and consultants will be used in all areas in which
KPC's or KEB's experience is inadequate.
IV. FINANCE
KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION
Background
4.01    The financial affairs of KPC are governed primarily by the Companies
Att of 1956. However, as a generating company KPC is also subject to Elec-
tricity (Supply) Act, 1948, including its rate of return provisions
(para 4.14).
Accounting Systems and Financial Organization
4.02    KPC practices an accruals-based, double entry accounting system.  The
Corporation follows well-defined accounting procedures based on an
eight-digit code of accounts. These procedures could be readily automated
and the rapid growth in the Corporation's activities make automation increas-
ingly attractive. Consequently, appropriate computer hardware and software,
technical assistance and training would be financed under the proposed
Project (para 3.05).
4.03    KPC's finance function is headed by a Finance Director who is nor-
mally a senior member of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service. Day-to-day
management of financial operations is the responsibility of the Financial
Controller and his supporting staff. In general KPC's financial personnel
have adequate qualifications and experience. However, the Corporation lacks
staff trained in financial planning and the proposed Project includes a
component to address this (para 3.05).
Audit Arrangements
4.04    Internal Audit.  KPC's organization provides for an internal audit
unit to be headed by a Deputy Controller of Accounts reporting to the Finan-
cial Controller. The unit is responsible for auditing all divisions of the
Corporation and manuals detailing appropriate internal audit procedures have
been prepared. However, the unit's staffing is inadequate. The position of
Deputy Controller of Accounts to head the unit is currently vacant and the
unit does not have regular staff. Internal audit work is currently carried
out by officers from other accounting units. Such divided responsibilities
are not properly compatible with internal audit work. KPC wishes to
strengthen its internal audit unit and has decided that in future the unit



-31-
will be headed by a Controller of Accounts. During negotiations, KPC agreed
to appoint a full complement of qualified accounts personnel to its internal
audit unit and make the unit report directly to the Finance Director or
Managing Director, by December 31, 1987 (para 6.05(d)).
4.05    External Audit.  The audit of KPC's accounts is carried out in
accordance with guidelines issued by the Accountant General of Kar-
nataka (AG), by Chartered Accountants appointed by the Company Law Board for
a period of three years, based on the recommendations of the AG. The audit
is in turn audited by the AG. The guidelines issued by the AG and the
quality of past audits are satisfactory. The Corporation is required by the
Companies Act to finalize its accounts and have them audited within seven
months of the end of the financial year. KPC has generally been able to
adhere to this time schedule, although minor delays have arisen, particularly
when new auditors have been appointed. KPC agreed, during negotiations, to
furnish its audited accounts together with the auditor's and AG's reports to
the Bank within six months of the end of each financial year (para 6.05(e)).
Fixed Asset Accounting
4.06    KPC maintains its fixed asset registers at historical cost, as
required by GOI. In order to reconcile fixed asset registers with actual
assets, KPC conducts a physical verification of fixed assets once every three
years. However, the subsequent reconciliation and concomitant adjustment of
accounts has frequently taken too long. In April 1986, the date of the last
physical verification, the rfconciliation following the April 1983 exercise
had still not been fully completed. KPC agreed, during negotiations, that
its reconciliation and adjustment of fixed asset accounts will in future be
completed within six months of the date of the verification (para 6.05(g)).
Insurance
4.07    During construction, KPC's assets are insured against risk of damage
due to fire, explosion, etc. by contractors. After commissioning, coverage
is provided by KPC's own insurance policies which conform to accepted utility
standards.
Tariffs
4.08    KPC's tariffs, like KEB's, are de facto set by GOK in the light of
the recommendations of a tariff committee which includes representatives of
01t K1B5, KPC, the Karnataka Chamber of Commerce & Industry and the Karnataka
Consumers Association. KPC's tariffs have generally been flat rate and have
been set on a station specific basis to cover the relevant historic costs
(including nominal, not just real, interest). Historicallyt tariffs have
generally been such as to allow KPC to comply with Section 59 of the Elec-
tricity (supply) Act although, prior to the recent amendment, the financial
performance requirement was only loosely specified. Average revenue has



-32-
increased from 7.5 paisa/kWh in 1980/81 to 17.8 paisa/kWh in 1985/86, repre-
senting an annual average increase of 20%, well above the prevailing rate of
inflation. Compliance with the amended Electricity (Supply) Act (para 1.08)
would increase the average tariff in constant price terms from 22 paisa/kWh
in 1986/87 to 33 paisa/kWh in 1995/96, representing an increase of 50% in
real terms. Although, in general, flat rate tariffs will fail to give
appropriate economic signals to KEB which is responsible for load dispatch,
the prevailing shortages of power in Karnataka and the Southern Region are
such that this is unlikely to be causing significant distortion currently.
However, further study is necessary to investigate whether, for example, two
part or time-of-day generation tariffs would be desirable in future.  This
exercise will be included in the terms of reference for the tariff study
included in the proposed Project (para 4.27).
Past Financial Performance
4.09    Detailed financial statements for 1981/82 - 1985/86 are presented in
Annex 4.2. Key data and financial ratios are summarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Summary of KPC's Performance 1981/82 - 1985/86
1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85  1985/86
Generation (GWh)                  6,060      6,670     6,853      7,460    7,222
Sales of Electricity (CWh)        5,976      6,533     6,692      7,285    7,020
Ave. Revenue (Paisa/kWh)           11.1       10.9      15.0       16.8      17.8
Operating Revenue (Rs M)            688        718     1,021      1,233    1,330
Operating Expenses (Rs M)           384        405       544        784       801
Operating Income (Rs X)             303        313       476        450       529
Operating Ratio (Z)                  56         56         53        63        60
Rate of Return (X) 1/               8.6        8.4      12.1       11.5       9.4
Debt Service Coverage Ratio         0.9        0.6        1.8       1.8       1.1
Internal Cash Generation (X)         -2          3        14          6         7
1/ As per Bank guidelines, based on historically valued assets.
The Corporation's financial performance during 1981/82 - 1985/86, as measured
by the operating ratio and return on assets, was satisfactory. The operating
ratio averaged about 58X and the rate of return on historically valued net
fixed assets in use averaged about 10. In contrast KPC's self-financing
ratio was negative in 1981/82 and very low, at 3Z, in 1982/83. This is
attributable to the repayment terts of COK loans which, at 15 years with no
grace, are excessively onerous given the nature of the assets being financed.
In recognition of this and at the request of the Corporation, GOK converted
all its loans to KPC, outstanding as of March 31, 1984, from 15 year to
30 year repayment terms. This resulted in a much improved self-financing
ratio of 14X for 1983/84. It should, however, be noted that the relaxation



-33-
of repayment terms was a one-time action and subsequent GOK loans have con-
tinued to carry 15 year, no grace repayment terms (para 4.13). In 1984/85
and 1985/86, the self-financing ratio was relatively low. It was 6X in
1984/85, primarily due to the significant increase in accounts receivable,
and was 71 in 1985/86, essentially due to further increases in accounts
receivable and the repayment of debentures that matured during the year.
Present Financial Position
4.10    KPC's Balance Sheet at the end of 1985/86 is presented in Annex 4.3
and summarized in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: KPC's Balance Sheet, March 31, 1986
(Rs Million)
Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                        8,915
Less: Accumulated Depreciation            19435
Net Fixed Assets                                                   7,480
Work-in-Progress                                                   3,157
10,637
Current Assets                            1,464
Less:  Current Liabilities                  442
Net Working Capital                                               l1022
Total Assets                                                    11,659
Equity and Liabilities
0OK Equity                                  560
General and Other Reserves                  823
Total Equity                                                     1,383
Long Term Debt                                                    10,276
Total Equity and Liabilities                                      11,659
Debt/Equity Ratio                                                88/12
GOK's equity contribution of Rs 560 million was made at the time of formation
of the Corporation in 1971 (para 2.02). Subsequent capital expenditure has
been financed primarily by debt, resulting in a debt/equity ratio at the end
of 1985/86 of 88/12. KPCs current ratio of 3.3 is satisfactory. The Cor-
poration's debt service coverage was 1.1 in 1985/86, primarily owing to:
(a) repayment of debentures that matured during the year; and (b) reversion
to the 15 year no grace repayment terms for G0K loans since 1984/85
(para 4.09). Unless the grace and repayment terms for new COK loans are made
more commensurate with the construction period and life of assets financed,
there will be an undesirable deterioration in debt service coverage which is



-34-
not conducive to sound financial management. During negotiations, GOK agreed
that the repayment term on all its loans to KPC would be 20 years including 5
years grace (para 6.03(c)). This relaxation would allow KPC to achieve
reasonable debt service coverage (Table 4.4 and para 4.17), but it should be
noted that the repayment period, from commissioning, would typically be less
than one third of the economic life of the relevant assets.
Accounts Receivable
4.11    KPC bills its sole customer, KEB, monthly and payment is due within
30 days. However, despite concerted efforts by KPC, accounts receivable at
the end of 1985/86 were Rs 794 million representing about 7.2 months' sales.
KEB has been unable to settle its bills promptly because it, in turn, has
been unable to collect receivables owed by several public sector customers
(para 4.33). The measures detailed in para 4.34 will ensure that KPC's
existing receivables are collected and that there will not be an accumulation
of arrkars in future.
Onlending Arrangements
4.12    OI would be the recipient of the proposed loan of US$330 million.
GOI would retain about US$1 million to finance CEA's Load Despatch Study
(para 2.15) and onlend the balance of approximately US$329 million to GOK as
per standard terms of central assistance to Karnataka. GOK proposes to
relend the US$197 million of the proceeds applicable to the Corporation at
its normal interest rate for loans to KPC, which in 1985/86 was 10.75% 1/.
The spread of 2.83% over the Bank's current interest rate of 7.92% is suffi-
cient to cover the foreign exchange, interest rate and guarantee risks to be
borne by GOI. Conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOK and KPC,
satisfactory .to the Bank, specifying (a) an interest rate of not less than
10.75% pa; and (b) a repayment term of 20 years including 5 years grace,
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para 6.01).
Financial Performance Covenant
4.13    As noted in para 1.08, the Bank has adopted the policy of framing its
financial performance covenant in a manner which is consistent with the
amended Electricity (Supply) Act. The Act requires a minimum surplus of 3%
after interest but specifically enables the State Governments to notify a
higher rate of return where appropriate. As noted in para 4.08, KPC's com-
pliance with a minimum of 3% after interest would increase its tariffs by
about 50% in real terms (140% in nominal terms) during the course of the
Project. As this produces satisfactory financial performance for KPC
(paras 4.16 and 4.17) and any higher rate would impose an almost impossible
1/ This rate has been increased to 11.5% as of April 1987.



-35-
financial burden on KED (para 4.36), a 3% rate of return after interest is an
appropriate requirement for KPC. During negotiationst KPC agreed to take all
measures necessary to ensure that it shall in each financial year earn a rate
of return after interest of at least 32 (para 6.05(f)). The method by which
the above rate of return would be computed is defined in Annex 4.1.
Investment and Financing
4.14    KPC's investment plan for 1986/87 to 1995/96 is presented in
Annex 4.2. The Corporation plans to invest about Rs 24 billion (US$1,872
million) over the ten-year period. About Rs 7.7 billion ('0S$596 million)
would be invested in thermal capacity and about Rs 16 bill. on (US$1,276
million) in hydro capacity.
4.15    KPC's financing plan for the investment program is summarized in
Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: KPC's Financing Plan 1986/87 - 1995/96
Rs Million      US$ Million        X
Requirements
Capital Investment 1/                     34,689            2,668         96
Working Capital Increase                   1,331              102          4
Total Requirements                      36,020           2,770         100
=====    w=szz=         ==
Sources
Cross Internal Cash Generation            20,301            1,561
Less:  Debt Service                       159744            1,211
Net Internal Cash Generation               4,557              350         13
Borrowings
Proposed Loan                            2,564              197          7
Other Borrowings                         4,340              334         12
GOK Loans                               24,559           1,889          68
Total Borrowings                          31,463           2,420          87
Total Sources                             36,020           2,770         100
1/ Includes interest during construction.
During the ten year period, the requirement for funds is estimated at
Rs 36,020 million (US$2,770 million). Net internal cash generation is
expected to account for Rs 4,557 million (US$350 million) representing 132 of
the total requirements. The remaining 872, amounting to Rs 31,463 million
(US$2,420 million), would be financed though borrowings including KPC's share
of the proposed loan, Rs 2,564 million (US$197 million). Given past



-36-
experience, the Bank expects that the financing requirements would be ade-
quately met in a timely manner.
Forecast Financial Performance
4.16    KPC's projected financial statements for the period 1986/87 - 1995/96
and the assumptions on which these are based are presented in Annex 4.2. The
Corporation's projected operating results are summarized in Table 4.4.
Table 4.4:  KPC's Projected Operating Results
86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96
Generation (GWh)    9387  10799  12179  13059  13163  13542  13981  14256  15574  16269
Sales (GWh)          9176  10516  11843  12709  12787  13125  13540  13802  15101  15786
Ave. Revenue
(Paisa/kWh)         22.7   25.9   27.6   28.8   30.3   33.6  41.3    48.1   49.2   54.8
---------------------- -- Rs Million----------------------------
Operating Revenue   2129   2767   3331   3716   3949   4495  5346    5832   7398   8776
Operating Expenses  1322   1782   2141   2453   2790   3331  3886    4510   5304   6064
Operating Income      808    985   1191   1263   1159   1163  1460    1322   2094   2712
Net Income 1/         283    357    597    425    409    416   485        487    678    811
Rate of Return (X) 2/
- As per covenant   3.8    3.0    5.2    3.0    3.0    3.0   3.0         3.0    3.0    3.0
- As per'Bank
Guidelines        8.3    8.4    9.3    9.1    8.4    7.7   9.0        6.8    8.4    9.5
Debt Service
Coverage Ratio       1.2    1.3    1.5    1.3    1.4    1.3   1.3        1.3    1.3    1.2
Internal Cash
Generation (X)       -12     20      35     23      16     10      9       5       9      8
1/ After Interest
2/ On historically valued assets
The projections are based on normal hydrological conditions and reflect
tariff increases driven by compliance with the proposed 3% rate of return
covenant (para 4.15). In order to satisfy this covenant KPC's tariffs would
have to be increased, in a timely manner, at an average annual rate of 12% in
current terms, almost 7% in real terms given average inflation just over 5%.
KPC agreed, during negotiations, to furnish to the Bank, by December 31 of
each year, a report of [PC's forecast operational and financial performance
for the ensuing financial year, specifying the actions that will be taken to
fulfill financial covenants (para 6.05(h)). The report would be reviewed
with Bank staff during subsequent supervision.



-37-
4.17    As noted in para 4.15, internal cash generation will finance
approximately 13% of total capital investment and working capital require-
ment. However, the time profile of internal cash generation needs explana-
tion. The relatively good performance in the period 1987/88 - 1990/91 is
partly attributable to the plan agreed with the Bank for recovery of arrears
owed by KEB (para 4.34). Internal cash generation during 1991/92 - 1995/96
appears low but is reasonable given the disparity between debt repayment
terms and asset lives (para 4.10) and the heavy investment taking place at
that time (Annex 4.2). The debt/equity ratio is expected to improve from
89/11 in 1985/86 to 85/15 in 1995/96. Ratios in this range are satisfactory
for a state-owned utility. The Corporation's projected debt service coverage
ratio is in the range 1.2-1.5 and is therefore satisfactory, as is the
projected current ratio which averages 3.3.
Income Taxes
4.18    KPC is liable for income tax.  However, its existing tax losses, its
investment program and the accelerated depreciation Allowed for tax purposes
are such that tax relief is provided well beyond the period of financial
projections. A tax equalisation reserve is, therefore, not necessary.
KARNATAKA ELECTRICITY BOARD
Background
4.19    KEB's financial activities are governed by the Electricity (Supply)
Act of 1948. The Act stipulates, among other things, the classification of
assets for depreciation purposes, audit procedures and the financial perfor-
mance criterion for the Board (para 4.36). KEB waE a profitable utility
until 1982/83. However, KEB has incurred losses si.ice 1983/84 owing to: its
failure to increase tariffs in a period of rising ccsts; insufficient power
available for sale; high technical and non-technical losses; and the burden
of interest on accumulated debt. The actions proposed below are designed to
complement KEB's own initiatives, e.g. in the areas of accounting systems
(para 4.20), internal audit (para 4.22), a 40% tariff increase in October
1985 (para 4.27) to ensure the Board's financial recovery and thereafter
improve its financial viability.
Accounting Systems and Financial Organization
4.20    Under the Third Rural Electrification Project (Ln. 2165-IN) GOI
agreed to cause all SEBs to introduce a uniform Commercial Accounting System
(CAS). Accordingly, KEB introduced the CAS with the help of consultants
(Price Waterhouse) in 1984/85, thus making it the first SEB in India to do
so. The Board has had one full year's operation under the CAS and is cur-
rently compiling the accounts for 1985/86 as maintained under the new system.
Accounting staff have been trained in the operation of the CAS and a special



-38-
unit, headed by a Deputy Controller of Accounts, has been set up for trouble
shooting purposes. Initially, capitalization of interest during construction
had been optional under the CAS. However, GOI has issued a notification to
all SEBs, including KEB, requiring capitalization of interest during con-
struction.
4.21    KEB's finance function is headed by the Finance Member (para 2.10)
who is normally a senior member of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service. A
Financial Advisor/Chief Accounts Officer is responsible for day-to-day
management of financial operations; he, in turn, is assisted by three Con-
trollers of Accounts, one each for the finance, accounts and commercial
functions, and their supporting staff. The qualifications and experience of
KEB's financial staff is generally satisfactory. However, in order to:
(a) facilitate the smooth operation of the CAS; (b) define clearly the duties
and responsibilities of accounting and internal audit staff; and (c) assist
KEB in establishing a financial planning unit, the Board needs an organiza-
tion and management study for its finance function. During negotiations, GOK
agreed to cause KEB to engage consultants, by December 31, 1987, to carry out
an Organization and Management Study of its finance function, in accordance
with terms of reference and a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(para 6.04(d)).
Audit Arrangements
4.22    Internal Audit.  KEB has an internal audit unit headed by a Control-
ler of Accounts who reports directly to the Finance Member. The unit's
responsibilities include audit of all monetary transactions, i.e. capital
expenditure, stores purchases, billing and collection, etc.. The Board on its
own initiative engaged consultants to undertake a study of its internal audit
unit with a view to increasing its effectiveness and consistency with the
CAS. The consultants have completed their work and the Bank reviewed the
results and recommendations of the study and found them to be satisfactory.
The internal audit will be quicker and more effective once the implementation
of the study's recommendations, currently in progress, is completed.
4.23    External Audit.  The Comptroller and Auditor General of India,
through his representative, the Accountant General of Karnataka (AG), is
responsible for audit of KEB's accounts. The AG has his staff resident at
KU,8 engaged in concurrent audit of the Board's accounts. The quality of
audit is satisfactory. Although the Board is required by the Electricity
(Supply) Act to finalize its accounts and have them audited within six months
of the end of the financial year, in the three years prior to 1981/82, KEB
had its accounts audited in about eight to nine months. In 1981/82, however,
owing primarily to a dispute over workload norms for clerical staff, substan-
tial delays occured in finalization of that year's accounts, resulting in
delays in finalizing accounts of subsequent years. The dispute over workload
norms has since been resolved and KEB has made substantial progress in clear-
ing the backlog as evidenced by the recent completion of the 1983/84 and



-39-
1984/85 audits. GOK agreed, during negotiations, to cause KEB to furnish to
the Bank its audited accounts, together with the Auditor's Report: (a) by
October 31, 1987 for the year 1985/86; and (b) within nine months of the end
of the financial year under consideration beginning with 1986/87
(para 6.04(e)).
Fixed Asset Accounting
4.24    KEB's fixed asset registers reflect historical costs as required by
GOI. These registers, which prior to the introduction of the CAS were being
maintained at the headquarters in Bangalore, do not accurately reflect the
value of the Board's plant and equipment. The value of some assets is under-
stated owing to anomalies in recording (para 4.34), while the value of others
is overstated because unproductive assets have not been written off, The
Board recognizes the need to undertake a Fixed Asset Accounting Study in
order to establish: (a) a physical inventory of its fixed assets;
(b) appropriate depreciation charges; and (c) fixed asset registers at the
division level as required by the CAS. The study would be financed under the
proposed Project (para 3.05). GOK agreed, during negotiations, to cause KEB
to engage consultants, by no later than March 31, 1988, to conduct a Fixed
Asset Accounting Study, in accordance with terms of reference and a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.04(f)).
Metering and Billing
4.25    KEB bills all of its consumers monthly except those in the domestic
lighting and agricultural categories. Domestic lighting consumers are billed
bimonthly and agricultural consumers having irrigation pumps above 10 HP are
billed quarterly. Those with pumps 10 HP or below are billed semi-annually.
With the exception of this last group, all of the Board's consumers are
supposed to be metered. However, owing partly to an expected extension of
non-metered supplies and partly to lack of adequate fundst many new connec-
tions that should have had meters were made without. Furthermore, many
faulty meters were not replaced. Imputing bills for these connections has
been problematic and has resulted in a substantial loss of revenue. To
address this, the Board has issued a directive that, beginning April 1, 1985,
no new consumers, who should be metered, will be connected without a meter.
To meter all existing connections that should be metered, the Board needs to
procure and connect about 400,000 meters. During negotiations, 0OK agreed to
cause KEB, by March 31, 1989: (a) to provide meters for all connections that
should be metered; and (b) reduce, and maintain thereafter the number of
faulty meters at less than 1.52 of the total number of metered connections,
in accordance with a monitorable action program acceptable to the Bank
(para 6.04(g)).



-40-
Insurance
4.26    During construction KEB's assets are insured against risk of damage
due to fire, explosion, etc. by contractors. After commissioning, coverage
is provided by KEB's own insurance policies which conform to acceptable
utility standards.
Tariffs
4,27    As noted in para 4.08 KEB's tariffs are in effect set by GOK in the
light of recommendations of a Tariff Committee. Including a 40% tariff
increase in October 1985, KEB's average tariff has increased from 27
paisa/kWh in 1980/81 to 49 paisa/kWh in 1985/86, an average annual increase
of 122. Despite this increase, which has been in excess of the rate of
inflation, KEB's average tariff is only about 551 of the estimated LRMC, 86
paisa/kWh. However, compliance with the Electricity (Supply) Act (para 1.08)
would raise the average tariff in constant price terms to over 70 paisa/kWh
by 1995/96. This would be equivalent to approximately 821 of LRMC. Although
the trend in the average tariff is very encouraging, structural aspects of
KEB's tariffs also need to be considered. A tariff study is needed, in
particular, to:
(a)  analyse the economic costs (marginal costs) of supply to the various
different classes of consumer, taking into account the voltage of
supply and the characteristic time profiles of demand;
(b)  examine the case for introducing time-of-day tariffs for large con-
sumers, particularly industrial. At present industrial consumers
face energy and demand charges which are independent of time of use;
and
(c)  examine tariff/metering arrangements for agricultural consumers
including a cost benefit analysis of the policy whereby consumers
with pumps of 10 HP or less are offered unmetered supplies
(para 4.25).
A study to address, inter alia, these issues is included in the proposed
Project (para 3.05).  As noted in para 4.08 a study is also required of KPC's
tariffs and, given the interdependency of these exercises, it is appropriate
that they should be combined into one study. A steering group including
representatives of KEB, KPC and GOK would be formed to oversee the combined
study. During negotiations, GOK agreed to cause KEB to engage consultants,
by April 30, 1988, to undertake a tariff study in accordance with terms of
reference and a timetable satisfactory to the Bank para 6.04(h)).



-41-
Past Financial Performance
4.28    KEB's financial statements for the years 1980/81 - 1984/85 are given
'in Annex 4.3 and summarized in Table 4.5.
Table 4.5:  KEB's Summary Operating Results 1980/81 - 1984/85
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85
Energy Available to KEB (GWh)         6,662    7,920    7,910    8,034    8,899
Losses (X)                             18.7      21.8     20.6      19.4     20.1
Energy Sales (GWh)                    5,414    6,193    6,299    6,473    6,941
Average Revenue/kWh (Paisa)            27.1      31.1     32.0      34.2     41.2
Operating Revenue (Rs M)              1,629    2,142    2,376    2,604    3,538
Operating Expenses (Rs M)             1,318    1,803    1,914    2,489    3,298
Operating Income (Rs M)                 311       339      462       115      240
Operating Ratio (x)                      81        84       81        96       93
Rate of Return (X) 1/                    12        17       22         5        8
Debt Service Coverage Ratio             1.8       1.5      2.1       0.7      0.7
Internal Cash Generation                           50       64       -32       -4
1/ As per Bank guidelines, based on historically valued assets.
4.29    KEB's financial performance from 1980/81 to 1982/83 was satisfactory
but deteriorated significantly during 1983/84 and 1984/85 2/. In 1983/84 and
1984/85, KEB had to purchase a much greater proportion of its energy at high
cost from neighboring states, which resulted in the Board's operating
costs/kWh sold increasing by 561 during the two years. During the same
period KEB's average revenue/kWh sold increased only by 29% 3/. Consequently,
the Board's operating ratio, which averaged about 82% during 1980/81-1982/83,
deteriorated to 97Z in 1983/84 and improved, only slightly, to 93% in
1984/85. Similarly, unsatisfactory trends were exhibited by the return on
assets, debt service coverage and internal cash generation indicators.
2/  It is expected that extraordinary asset write-offs and the repeated
failure of the monsoon will have produced a further deterioration in
financial performance during 1985/86 and 1986/87.
3/  Tariff rates were on average increased by more than 29% during this
period but the mix of consumption was adversely affected by dispropor-
tionate load shedding of industrial and commercial consumers who pay the
highest rates.



-42-
Present Financial Position
4.30    KEB's Balance Sheet as of March 31, 1985 is presented in Annex 4.4
and summarized in Table 4.6.
Table 4.6: KEB's Balance Sheet, March 31, 1985
(Rs Million)
Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                                      5,566
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                         19428
Met Fixed Assets                                                   4,t138
Work-in-Progress                                                    29078
Total Fixed Assets                                               6,216
Investments & Intangibles                                              21
Inter Unit Accounts                                                   774
Current Assets                                                      1,607
8,618
Euity and Liabilities
Consumer Contribution                                     188
General and Other Reserves                              1,013
Total Equity                                                        1,201
Staff Superannuation Fund                                            252
Security Deposits                                                    541
Long Term Debt                                                     3,599
Current Liabilities                                                3,025
8,618
Debt/Equity Ratio                                                   75/25
KIB has not received any equity contribution from GOK, other than at forma-
tion, despite the provisions in the Electricity (Supply) Act. Asset forma-
tion has therefore largely been financed by debt, and to a lesser extent, by
internal cash generation, resulting in a debt/equity ratio, as of March 31,
1985, of 75/25, which is satisfactory for a state-owned utility. The Board's
current ratio, however, was very low at 0.5, owing to its incomplete payment
of KPC's bills (para 4.34) and its failure to meet debt service obligations
to GOC.
Investments and Intangibles
4.31    The investments and intangibles account on KEB's balance sheet com-
prises the cost of a submerged dam at the town of Hirebhaskar, the book value
of which amounted to Rs 19 million at the end of 1984/85. To rationalize
KEB's accounts OOK agreed, during negotiations, to cause KEB to make an



-43-
extraordinary write-off of the book value of the Hirebhaskar dam in KEB's
accounts for 1985/86 (para 6.04(i)).
Suspense Accounts
4.32    In its audited accounts for 1984/85, KEB was carrying about Rs 690
million in Inter-Unit Accounts, which were used to record transactions
between divisions until the accounts department received supporting documen-
tation. However, incomplete documentation has been a chronic problem and
many items in this account should have been reallocated to other accounts
years ago. KEB estimates that about 60% of the assets recorded in the
Inter-Unit Account have been used in capital works and therefore should have
been reallocated to work-in-progress or tross fixed assets. The balance is
believed to have been used for operation and maintenance purposes and hence
should have been expensed. KEB also carries a 'Stock Incidentals Account'
which amounted to Rs 135 million as of March 31, 1984. This account which
was used for maintenance works, needs to be expensed entirely. Accordingly,
KEB has expensed about Rs 51 million in its accounts for 1984/85 leaving a
balance of Rs 84 million in its Stock Incidentals Account as of March 31,
1985. The CAS requires all transactions to be charged directly to the
relevant head of account i.e., capital works, maintenance, etc. and there-
fore suspense accounts would cease to exist once those mentioned above are
cleared. In order to ensure their prompt clearance in a manner which will
not jeopardise KEB's ability to meet the rate of return requirement in future
years (para 4.36), the Board would need to make the necessary adjustments
to its accounts for 1985/86, which are yet to be closed and audited. GOK
agreed, during negotiations, to cause KEB to: (a) make an extraordinary
write-off of the balance of the Stock Incidentals Account as of March 31,
1985 in the accounts for 1985/86 (para 6.04(j)); and (b) clear, by March 31,
1988, the balance of the Inter-Unit Account as of March 31, 1985, by
appropriately capitalizing or expensing the contents of the account
(para 6.04(k)).
Accounts Receivable
4.33    In collecting against electricity bills, KEB is aided by the
Karnataka Electricity Board (Recovery of dues) Act, 1976, a progressive piece
of legislation unparalleled in other states. This act enables KEB to collect
overdue arrears owed to it with the assistance of GOK revenue officials who
ensure recovery by attachment of the property of defaulters, if necessary.
The Board's collection procedures are themselves strict: all bills are to be
paid within 15 days of their presentation and defaulting consumers pay penal-
ties at the rate of 2% per month. Chronic defaulters are being systemati-
cally disconnected and reconnection charges are high. With such measures,
KNO has been able to maintain good control of accounts receivable from the
vast majority of its consumers. However, collection from the public sector
has still proved problematic. A limited number of public sector debtors
accounted for more than 75% of the Boards receivables of Rs 1,112 million,



-44-
representing 4.5 months' sales as of March 31, 1985. The principal debtors
include: 5 GOK industrial undertakings, 10 water supply boards, 12
municipalities and several village authorities. A consequence of these
arrears is that KEB has itself been unable to pay all that it owes to KPC
(paras 4.12 and 4.30). GOK agreed, during negotiations, to cause the Board
to collect, by April 1, 1990, its accounts receivable from its principal
debtors, as of March 31, 1987, in accordance with a monitorable action
program satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.04(1)). GOK also agreed, during
negotiations, to cause KEB to maintain its accounts receivable with respect
to sales after March 31, 1987, at no more than the equivalent of the preced-
ing 2 months' sales (para 6.04(m)).
Accounts Payable
4.34    KEB's accounts payable to KPC, its main supplier of electricity,
stood at Rs 546 million as of March 31, 1985, almost exactly equal to the
amount owed to the Board by its principal debtors (para 4.31). GOK agreed,
during negotiations, to cause KEB to clear completely its arrears due to KPC
as of March 31, 1987, according to an action program parallelling the reduc-
tion in the Board's own accounts receivable (para 6.04(n)). In order to
ensure that the problem of high accounts payable on account of electricity
purchases from KPC, the converse of which is KPC's receivable, does not
re-occur (para 4.12), COK agreed, during negotiations, to cause KEB, to:
(a) open a revolving letter of credit, beginning October 1, 1987, in favour
of KPC for an amount equivalent to one month's estimated purchases from KPC
(para 6.04(0)); and (b) clear any sums owed to KPC with respect to sales
after April 1, 1987, not covered by the letter of credit, within 30 days
(para 6.04(p)).
Onlending Arrangements
4.35    GOK proposes to onlend the proceeds applicable to KEB , approximately
US$132 million at its normal interest rate for loans to the Board, which in
1985/86 was 10.75X. 1/ As noted with respect to KPC (para 4.12), the spread
of 2.83Z over the Bank's current interest rate of 7.92% is sufficient to
cover the foreign exchange and interest rate and guarantee risks to be borne
by OI. During negotiations, CoK agreed to onlend to KEB the relevant por-
tion of the proposed loan at an interest rate of not less than 10.75% pa
(para 6.03(b)). As with KPC, the current repayment terms for GOK loans to
KEB, 15 years with no grace, are excessively onerous, considering the lives
of the assets that the loans finance. GOK agreed, during negotiations, that
all its loans to [EB, including the applicable proceeds of the proposed Bank
1/ As previously noted this rate has been increased to 11.5% as of April
1987.



-45-
loan, will carry repayment terms of 20 years including 5 years grace
(para 6.03(c)).
Financial Performance Covenant
4.36    Like KPC, KEB is now required by the Electricity (Supply) Act to earn
a rate of return after interest of at least 3Z. As its estimated rate of
return in 1986/87 was about -72, compliance with the Act would, ceteris
paribus, represent a substantial improvement in performance. To achieve this
improvement in the rate of return at the same time as the price of power from
KPC increases rapidly in real terms (para 4.08), would represent an even
greater achievement. To meet the 3% requirement it is estimated that KEB
would have to increase its average tariff by 482 in real terms (137% in
norminal terms) over the life of the project (para 4.27). This would result
in satisfactory financial performance as measured by parameters such as
internal cash generation and return on assets (para 4.40) and is therefore an
appropriate requirement. During negotiations, GOK agreed to cause KEB to
take all measures necessary to ensure that it shall in each financial year
earn a rate of return after interest of at least 3% (para 6.04(q)). The
method by which the above rate of return would be computed is defined in
Annex 4.1.
Investment and FinanciMng
4.37    KEB's investment plan for the period 1986/87 to 1995/96 is presented
in Annex 4.3. The Board plans to invest about Rs 20 billion (US$1,530 mil-
lion) over the ten-year period. About Rs 4.3 billion (US$334 million) would
be invested to construct 400-kV and 220-kV of transmission lines and Rs 3.5
billion (US$268 million) to erect related substations. In addition KEB also
plans to invest Rs 4.7 billion (US$359 million) in distribution improvement
and development and Rs 2.1 billion (US$161 million) in rural electrification
schemes.
4.38    KEB's financing plan for the above investment program and increased
working capital requirements is summarized in Table 4.7.



-46-
Table 4.7* XIB's Financing_Plan 1986/87 - 1995/96
Rs Million      USI Million
Requirements
Capital Investment 1/                     23,813            1,832          95
Working Capital Increase                   1,189               91           5
Total Requirements                      25,002            1,923         100
Sources
Gross Internal Cash Generation            19,433            1,495
Less:  Debt Service                       14,244            1,095
Net Internal Cash Generation               5,189              400          21
Borrowings
Proposed Loan                            1,713              132           7
GOK Loans                               18,100            1,391          72
Total Borrowings                          19t813            1,52           79
Total Sources                             25,002            1,923         100
1/ Includes interest during construction.
During the ten-year period, the total requirement for funds is estimated at
Rs 25 billion (US$1,923 million). Net internal cash generation is expected
to account for 21% of the total requirements. The remaining 791, would be
financed though borrowings including KEB's share of the proposed loan. The
Bank expects that the financing requirements will be adequately met in a
timely manner.
Forecast Financial Performance
4.39    KEB's projected financial statements for the period 1986/87 - 1995/96
and assumptions on which these are based are presented in Annex 4.4. The
Board's projected operating results are summarized in Table 4.8.



-47-
Table 4.8: KEB's Projected OperatinA Results
86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96
Electricity
Available (CWh)    11378  11858  13477  15128  15782  16260  16675  17024  18593  19551
Electricity Sales
(GWh)     8989   9468  10782  12254  12783  13171  13507  13789  15060  15836
Ave. Revenue/kWh
(Paisa)    49.0   56.4   59.1   62.9   69.1   75.3   85.1   93.9  103.5  116.2
-------------------------------Rs Million-------------------------
Operating Revenue    5179   6174   7309   8757   9941  11088  12723  14242  16998  19912
Operating Expenses   4857   5389   6450   7842   8864   9933  11333  12632  15199  17572
Operating Income        322    785    859    915   1077   1155   1391   1610   1800   2340
Net Income 1/         -309    152    161    190    264    289    346    420    481    580
Rate of Return (Z) 2/
- as per covenant   -7.1    3.1    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
- as per Bank
Guideline        7.9   16.7   16.1   13.2   12.7   11.9   11.9   11.7   11.2   13.8
Debt Service
Coverage Ratio        0.6    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.1    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2
Internal Cash
Generation (X)        -26      22      20     19      17     15      19     22      24      27
1/ After interest
i/ On historically valued assets
The projections are based on projected KPC sales (para 4.17) and future
tariff increases driven by compliance with the proposed 3% rate of return
covenant (para 4.38). In order to satisfy this covenant KE8's tariffs would
have to be increased at an average annual rate of 10.1% in current terms, or
just under 5% pa in real terms assuming an average inflation rate of just
over 5%. GOK agreed, during negotiations, to cause KEB to furnish to the
Bank, by December 31 of each year, a report on the Board's forecast opera-
tional and financial performance for the ensuing financial year, specifying
the actions that will be taken to fulfill financial covenants (para 6.04(r)).
The report would be reviewed with Bank staff during subsequent supervision.
4.40    KEB's gross fixed assets in operation are projected to increase from
Rs 7 billion in 1986/87 to Rs 25 billion in 1995/96, representing an increase
of about 250%. Over the same period, the rate of return on historically
valued assets calculated in accordance with the Bank's guidelines would
average 13X, and internal cash generation would average 21%. The debt/equity
ratio is expected to improve from 88/12 in 1985/86 to 81/23 in 1995/96. The
Board's projecte4 debt service coverage ratio improves from 0.6 in 1986/87 to
1.1 in 1987/88 and remains in the 1.1-1.2 range thereafter, and is therefore
satisfactory, as is the projected current ratio which averages 2.0.



-48-
Income Taxes
4.41    KEB is liable for income tax.  However, its existing tax losses, its
investment program and the accelerated depreciation allowed for tax purposes
are such that tax relief is provided well beyond the period of financial
projections. A tax equalisation reserve is, therefore, not necessary.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Least Cost Analysis
5.01    The principal components of the proposed Project are the Kodasalli
and Kadra hydro schemes to be implemented by KPC and the transmission program
to be implemented by KEB. During project preparation the Bank requested
studies to determine the optimum installed capacity at each of the two hydro
schemes, based on estimates of the cost of alternative generation in the
Southern Region. KPC and CEA carried out these studies and have consequently
revised the proposed capacity of the Kadra scheme. Subsequently, CEA has
prepared a least cost system expansion plan for the Southern Region, based on
the load forecast given in Annex 1.2. The earliest feasible implementation
of the Kadra and Kodasalli schmes forms an integral part of the least-cost
plan. The assumptions used, including the load forecast, and the results of
the optimization modelling have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfac-
tory. With regard to the transmission component, an appropriate range of
options (involving different configurations, voltage levels and timing) were
analyzed with respect to capital costs, operating costs and losses, and the
Bank is satisfied that the transmission program chosen constitutes part of
the least cost development of power supply to Karnataka and the Southern
Region.
Internal Economic Rate of Return
5.02    Benefits of the components in the proposed Project cannot readily be
separated from those of other investments in generation, transmission and
distribution. Therefore, having established that these form part of the
least cost expansion plan for the Southern Region, it is appropriate to carry
out a cost-benefit analysis of the plan as a whole in order to ensure that
the ezpansion envisaged is desirable. For this purpose, a "time-slice" of
the Southern Region's investment program has been analyzed. Capital costs of
the investment program (covering generation, transmission and distribution)
together with incremental operating and fuel costs are given in Annex 5.1.
The benefits of the investment program relate mainly to the incremental



-49-
consumption which it makes possible I/ . A minimum measure of benefit,
ignoring consumer surplus, can be derived from incremental sales revenue. In
the absence of adequate class specific consumption conversion factors, the
standard conversion factor (estimated to be 0.8) has been applied to convert
financial revenue into a measure of economic benefit. On this basis the
minimum internal economic rate of return achieved by the Southern Region
program is 4%.
5.03    However, this estimate is more a reflection of the level of tariffs
than of the economic merit of the investment program. The estimated minimum
economic rate of return, 4% is less than the established opportunity cost of
capital, and this is indicative of the fact that retail tariffs in the
Southern Region, particularly agricultural, are presently substantially less
than LRMC (para 1.08). In reality, the program will confer benefits in
excess of those described above. There will be consumer surplus associated
with the incremental consumption; consumers' reactions to the severe
shortages of power experienced at present, and expected for the foreseeable
future, suggest that willingness to pay substantially exceeds present tariff
levels. In addition there will typically be other external benefits.
5.04    In order to derive a more realistic internal economic rate of return,
it is useful to estimate a measure of consumer surplus, at least for
industrial and agricultural consumers. Their willingness to pay will be
related to the costs of autogeneration and diesel pumping respectively. Many
consuixers are presently observed to find these options economic when public
supply is not available. Annex 5.1 presents an estimate of diesel
autogeneration costs at Rs 1.88/kWh. It would, however, be unreasonable to
assume that all industrial consumers would be willing to pay this price for
the whole of their consumption from the public supply system. Therefore, as
a conservative measure, it has been assumed that the consumer surplus
attributable to incremental sales can be derived from an average of the cost
of autogeneration and the prevailing tariff. Similarly, for agricultural
consumers the equivalent cost of diesel pumping has been estimated at
Rs 2.21/kWh and average willingness to pay has been estimated at halfway
between the average agr14ultural tariff and this alternative cost. This more
realistic measure of the benefit of consumption results in an internal
economic rate of return of 12% for the Southern Region. However, it must
again be stressed that this represents a lower bound estimate as domestic
consumer surplus and other external benefits, have still not been included.
1/ The program may also lead to benefits in terms of a reduction in the cost
of meeting existing demand, particularly through fuel savings. However,
the energy deficit is such that by far the greater part of the output
available from plants in this program will lead to increased sales. Fuel
savings resulting from tftis program are likely to be small and this ele-
ment of the benefits has therefore been ignored.



-50-
Justification for Bank Involvement
5.05    Through this Project, the Bank would be supporting GOI/GOK's efforts
(para 3.04) to:
(a)  alleviate power shortages in the Southern Region by exploiting
indigenous hydro resources;
(b)  undertake timely rehabilitation of the Sharavati hydropower station;
and
(c)  augment transmission capacity, thereby reducing system losses.
In addition the Bank would:
(a)  help to maximise the value of generation from the Kalinadi complex
through the installation of SCADA equipment;
(b)  introduce state-of-the-art computerised distribution planning techni-
ques to KEB;
(c)  effect institutional and financial improvements in relation to both
KPC and KEB; and
(d)  support progress towards fully integrated operation of the Southern
Region.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
6.01    During negotiations, it was agreed that the conclusion of a Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement between GOK and KPC, satisfactory to the Bank specify-
ing (a) an interest rate of not less than 10.75X pa; and (b) a repayment term
of 20 years including 5 years grace, would be a condition of effectiveness
for the proposed loan (para 4.12).
6.02    During negotiations, QOI gave an assurance that the relevant
regulatory authorities will monitor all existing or future sources of pollu-
tion, that may materially affect water quality in the Kadra and Kodasalli
reservoirs, and ensure that GOI's environmental standards are adhered to
(para 3.16).
6.03    During negotiations, GOK agreed to:



-51-
(a) implement, or cause the implementation of, the resettlement plan
agreed with the Bank (para 3.14);
(b) onlend to KEB the relevant portion of the proposed loan at an inter-
est rate of not less than 10.75Z pa (para 4.35); and
(c) that the repayment terms on all its loans to KPC and KEB would be 20
years including 5 years grace (paras 4.10 and 4.35).
6.04    During negotiations, GOK agreed to cause KEB to:
(a) engage consultants, by June 30, 1988, to develop and implement a
modern Management Information System for the Board in accordance with
terms of reference and a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(para 2.11);
(b) engage consultants, by October 31, 1987, to prepare a Distribution
Master Plan for Bangalore and train KEB personnel in modern methods
of distribution planning (para 2.13);
(c) furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports covering physical
works, consultancy services, costs, disbursements and administrative
aspects of the Project (para 3.22);
(d) engage consultants, by December 31, 1987, to carry out an Organiza-
tion and Management Study of its finance function in accordance with
terms of reference and a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(para 4.21);
(e)  furnish to the Bank KEB's audited accounts together with the
Auditor's Report: (i) by October 31, 1987, for the year 1985/86; and
(ii) within nine months of the end of the financial year under con-
sideration beginning with 1986/87 (para 4.23);
(f) engage consultants, by not later than March 31, 1988, to conduct a
?ixed Asset Accounting Study in accordance with terms of reference
and a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.24);
(g)  by March 31, 1989, (i) provide meters for all connections that should
be metered; and (ii) reduce, and maintain thereafter, the number of
faulty meters at less than 1.5% of the total number of metered con-
nections, in accordance with a monitorable action program acceptable
to the Bank (para 4.25);
(h) engage consultantst by April 30, 1988, to undertake a tariff study
in accordance with terms of reference and a timetable satisfactory to
the Bank (para 4.27);



-52-
(i) make an extraordinary write-off of the book value of the Hirebhaskar
dam in KEB's accounts for 1985/86 (para 4.31);
(3) make an extraordinary write-off of the balance of the Stock Inciden-
tals Account as of March 31, 1985, in the accounts for 1985/86
(para 4.32);
(k) clear, by March 31, 1988, the balance in its Inter-Unit Account as of
March 31, 1985, by appropriately capitalizing or expensing the con-
tents of the account (para 4.32);
(1) collect, by April 1, 1990, its accounts receivable from its principal
debtors, as of March 31, 1987 in accordance with a monitorable action
program satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.33).
(m) maintain its accounts receivable with respect to sales after March
31, 1987, at no more than the equivalent of the preceding 2 months'
sales (para 4.33);
(n) clear completely its arrears due to KPC as of March 31, 1987, accord-
ing to an action program paralleling the reduction in the Board's own
accounts receivable (para 4.34);
(o) open a revolving letter of credit beginning October 1, 1987 in favour
of KPC for an amount equivalent to one month's estimated purchases
from KPC (para 4.34);
(p) clear any sums owed to KPC with respect to sales after April 1, 1987,
not covered by the letter of credit, within 30 days (para 4.34);
(q) take all measures necessary to ensure that the Board shall in each
financial year earn a rate of return after interest of at least 3%
(para 4.36); and
(r) furnish to the Bank, by December 31 of each year, a report of the
Board's forecast operational and financial performance for the ensu-
ing financial year, specifying the actions that will be taken to
fulfill the financial covenants (para 4.39).
6.05    During negotiations, KPC agreed to:
(a) appoint experts in engineering geology and foundation engineering
to the POE by July 31, 1987 (para 3.07);
(b) review with its POE the results of the investigations of the lime-
stone formation at Kodasalli, prepare a report recommending treat-
ment, should any be necessary, and furnish this report to the Bank by
November 30, 1987 (para 3.07);



-53-
(c)  furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports covering physical
works, consultancy services, costs, disbursements and administrative
aspects of the Project (para 3.22);
(d)  appoint a full complement of qualified accounts personnel to its
internal audit and make the unit report directly to the Finance
Director or Managing Director by December 31, 1987 (para 4.04);
(e)  furnish its audited accounts together with the auditor's and AG's
reports to the Bank within seven months of the end of each financial
year (para 4.05);
(f)  take all measures necessary to ensure that the Corporation shall in
each financial year earn a rate of return after interest of at least
3% (para 4.13);
(g)  give an undertaking that the reconciliation and adjustment of fixed
asset accounts will in future be completed within six months of the
date of the verification (para 4.06); and
(h)  furnish to the Bank, by December 31st of each year, a report of KPC's
forecast operational and financial performance for the ensuing finan-
cial year, specifying the actions that will be taken to fulfill
financial covenants (para 4.16).
6.06    The absence of DOFW clearance after March 31, 1988, for the transmis-
sion lines included in the proposed Project is specified as an 'event of
suspension' in the remedies section of the proposed Loan Agreement
(para 3.15).
Recommendation
6.08    The proposed Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$330 million
equivalent.



INDIA
KARNATAKA PER PROJECT
Electricity Generation, Sale and Pattern of Snergy ConsMtion - All India
Description              FY'S1   FY'56   FY'61   FY'66   FY'69   F?Y'74   F7'79   FY'80   FY'81   FY'82   FY'83   FY'84   FY'65
________                 -        -       -                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(fr-o-v. )  (Ten-ts- (Tentam-
tive)   tive)
Installed Capacity (NW)   1.835    2.886   4.653    9.027    12.957   16.664  26.680  28.448  30.214  32.344  35.361  39.360  42.440
(Utilities)
Electricity Generated    5.858   9.662   16.937  32.990   47.433   66,689  102,523  104.627  110.821  122.010  130.211  139.896  156.633
(CWh)
Electricity Consumption   4.793   7.959   13.953  26,735   37.352  50.246  77.293  78.124  82.473  90.237  95.917  102.684    NA
(CWh) (Utilities only)
Per Capita Generation    20.80   30.90   43.90    73.81    97.82   126.26   159.60   160.00   166.20   182.00   183.00  192.70   211.38          1   _
(kWh)                                                                                                                                          Un
Per Capita Consumption    12.30   20.70   31.90    53.70    70.80    87.15   120.48  119.40  123.70   132.00  135.00  141.48     NA
(kWh) (Utilities only)
Conumption Pattern (S)
Dumestic Light 6         12.40    11.70   10.70     8.80      8.50    9.20   9.80     10.76   11.28    11.50   12.48  12.88       NA
Small Power
Comercial Light &         6.90    6.80    6.10    6.20       5.70    6.00   5.60       5.96   5.95      5.98    6.29   5.89      NA
Small Power
Industrial Power         63.70   66.90   69.40   70.60    69.30   64.60  61.35    58.86  58.75    58.75   55.80  56.68           NA
Railway/Traction          6.90    5.10    3.30    4.00       3.30    3.00   2.83       2.95   2.82      2.78    2.79   3.86      NA
Agriculture Pumps         4.30    4.00    9.30    7.10       9.30   12.60  15.56    17.23  17.48    16.71   18.55  17.72         NA
Public Water Works.
Savage Pumping. Public
Lighting & Others       5.80    5.50      3.90    3.30    3.90      4.60   4.86      4.24    4.28    4.28    4.10    2.97    NA
Total                   30.00  100.00   100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00   100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00    NA
KA - not Awailable
Sources CIA. March 1986



INDIA
BAIUNATAKA POUER PROJECT
Forecast of Re_ional Pover Demand in India. FY'86 - FY'95
FY 86     FY'87       FY 88        FY 89        FY'90        FYY91       FY'92        FY'93         FY094       FY'95
hnermy
(GIh)
Northern                 54.549    61.375      67,538       74,073        81.086      89.218       98,178     108.055        118.945     130.953
Western                  53,097    59.084      64.538       70.416        76.678      83.744       91.467      "9.913        109.148      119.245
Southern                 47.188    53.681      58.817       63.943       69.296       75.920       83.188      91.160         99.907     109.505
Eastern                  25.869    29.525      32.440       35.650        38,889      42.831       47.194      52.021         57.366      63.287
North-Eastern             1.991      2.407      2.712        3.038         3.389       3.744        4.135       4.563          5.035       5.550
Asdadan and                  23         26         30           33            37           41          46          52             58           65
Nicobar Islands
Lekahadweep                   3          3           3           4             4            5           6            6             7            8
All Indio (TOTAL)       182.720   206.101    226.078       247.157       269.379     295.503      324.214     355.770        390.466      428.613
Peak Load
Northern                 10.643    11,975      13.179       14.455        15.825      17.415       19.167      21.098         23.227       25.576
Western                   9.184    10.220      11.245       12.273        13.459       14,701      16.058       17.542        19.165       20.938
Southern                  8.558      9.707     10.620       11.534        12.485      13.675       14.982      16.414         17.986       19.711
Eastern                   4.505      5.134      5.640        6,196         6.757       7,442        8,202       9.043          9.974       11.006
North-Eastern               432        536        599          667           740          814         895         983          1.080        1.185
Andaman and                   7          8           8           9            10           11          12           14            16           18
Nicobar Islands
Lakshadweep                   1          2           2           2             2            2           3            3                 34
All India (TOTAL)        33.330    37.582      41.293       45,136        49.278      54.060       59.319      65.097         71,451       78.438
Source: CEA
0



Annex 1.3
-56.-
INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJBCT
Previous Loans and Credits to Indian Power Sector (April 22. 1987)
Approval  Closing    Loan   Amount
Borrower   IBRD Loans                            No.    Date       Date   Amount Disbursed    Status
(U-S$- Milon Equiv.)
India      First DVC - Bokaro - Konar              23    4/50      2/56      18.50     16.72     Complete
India      Second DVC - Maithon - Panchot         72    1/53       6/58      19.50     10.50     Complete
Teto       Trombay Power                          106   11/54      9/66      16.20     13.85     Complete
Teta       Second Trombay                         164    5/57      9/66       9.80      9.66     Complete
India      Third DVC - Durgapur                  203    7/58       6/65     25.00      22.00     Complete
India      Koyna Power                           223    4/59       4/65     25.00      18.70     Complete
India      Power Transmission                    416    6/65      12/70     70.00      50.00     Complete
India      Second Rothagudem Power               417    6/65      12/70     14.00      13.97     Complete
Tata       Third Trambay Thermal Power           1549    4/78     12/84    105.00      42.04     Complete
India      R .agundem Tbermal Power (*)         1648    1/79      12/86     50.00      42.19
India     FPrakka Therual Power (*)             1887    6/80       3/87     25.00       0.00
India      Second Ramagundam Thermal Power (*) 2076   12/81        6/88    300.00    125.13
India      Third Rural Electrification          2165    6/82       6/86    304.00    216.09
India      Upper Indravati Hydro                2278    5/83       6/91    156.40        .39
India      Central Power Trasnmission (M)       2283    5/83       3/89    250.70       4.96
IndiA      ItAira 84rovar                       2416    5/84       6/92    157.40       4.27
India      Second farakka Thermal Po er (M)    2442    6/84       12/91    300.80       6.71
Tats       Fourth Trombay Theral Power           2452    6/84      6/90    135.40      35.12
India      Chandrapur Thezmal Power             2544    5/85      12/92    300.00      24.63
India      Rihand Power Traalsission (*)        2555    5/85      12/89    250.00      23.31
Iidia      Kerala State Poaer                   2582    6/85       9/91    176.00       0.03
India      Combined Cycle (5)                   2674    4/85      12/91    485.00          -
Total                                                       3,194.20
(Total Loans for NTPC Projects)                            (1,711.50)
IDA Credits
India      Pourth DVC - Durgapur                   19    2/62     12/69      18.50     19.88     Complete
India      Second Koyna Power                     24    8/62       9/70      17.50     21.10     Complete
India      Kothagudem Power                       34    5/63      12/68     20.00      24.13     Complete
India      Beas Equipment                         89    6/66       6/74     23.00      26.32     Complete
India      Second Paoer Trantmission             242    4/71       3/77     75.00      72.93     Complete
India      Third Power Transmission              377    3/73       9/78      85.00     85.00     Complete
India      Rural Electrification                 572    7/75      12/80     57.00      57.00     Complete
India      Fourth Power Tranmission              604    1/76       6/83    150.00    149.87      Complete
India      Singrauli Thermal Power (*)           685    3/77      12/83    150.00    150.00      Complete
India      Korba Thermal Power (*)               793    4/78       3/85    200.00    194.83      Complete
India      RaTegunda  Thrml Power (*)            874    1/79      12/86    200.00    200.00
India      Second Rural Electrification          911    5/79       3/84    175.00    171.75      Complete
India      Second Singrauli Thermal Paver (*)  1027    5/80        3/88    300.00    260.81
India      farakka Thermal Paoer (*)            1053    6/80       3/87    225.03    208.58
India      Second Korba Thermal Power (5)       1172    7/81      12/89    395.09    250.37
India      Upper Indrawati lydro                1356    5/83       6/91    189.29      62.66
India      Indira Sarovar                      Sf010    5/84       6/92    122.00       4.20
India      Indira Sarovar                       1613    5/85       6/92     15.05          -
Total                                                      2,425.43
(Total Credits for NTPC Projects)                         (1,475.00)
(M) NTPC Projects.



INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION (KPC)
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
CIVIL                                   JOINT    |LECTRICAL
COMMITTEE                                COMMITTEE                                 COMMITTEE
I
|MANAGING|
| fINANCIAL  |                                               | _  __            | TECHNICAL
DIRECTOR                                                                      _   DIRECTOR
GENERAL                                                                                           CGENERAL
MANAGER                       M_ IANAGER
MtATERIALS                                                                                          THERMAL
PLANTS
. PROC URE-          I             CHIEF           CHIEF            CHIEf            CHIEF           CHIEF
FINANCIAL        MENT &          COMPANY         VIGILANCE        ENGINEER        ENGINEERS        ENGINEERSI    ENGINEERS
CONTROLLER       TRANSPORT       SECRETARY         OFFICER         I NVESTI-         DESIGN          HYDRO           THERMAL
OFFICER                                           CATION                           PLANTS          PLANTS
[   |  | PROCURE-  |  |    |  X           1   l             l  l             l  l   HYDRO           THERMAL  |
ACCOUNTING        MENT &         PERSONNEL         SECURITY        PLANNING          DESIGN           O&      I       OiM
DEPARTME NT      TRANSPORT       DEPARTMENT        DIVISION         DIVISION        DIVISIONS       DIVISIONS        DIVISIONS  |      J
DIViSION                                                                                       A  305868
WORLD BANKC OS86S



INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
KARNATAKA ELECTRICITY BOARD (KEB)
ORGANIZATION CHART
I l
.,I
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'qF  I                                                 .IF
,  f  .   I  .                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I --}
II
I       I        I        Ii il                                                               I!     0
WORW eAM 303M



-59-
Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 7
INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
KPC Component
Hydroelectric Projects Kodasalli and Kadra
Principal Features
1.      The main features of the Kodasalli and Kadra schemes are as follows:
Kodasalli        Kadra
Average flow                                  204 m3/1           257 m/s3
Reservoir storage                             286 M m3           389 M m3
Live storage                                  179 M m            209 M m
Submergence area                             1735 ha            3475 ha
Dam height over river bed                      44m                38.
Dam length (concrete section)                 496m               418m
Dam length (earthfill section)                  -               1832m
Total dam length                              496.              2250m
Length of spillway section                    165m               183m
Number of radial gates                          9                 10
Size of radial gates                     15m x lOm         15m x 10m
Number of low level sluices                     2                  2
Size of low level sluices            2.65m x 3.65m      2.65m x 3.65m
Number of bellmouth intakes                                         3
Size of intake opening                    7. X 11.           8m x 12m
Type of intake gates                  Roller gates       loller gates
lumber af penstocks                             3                   3
Diameter and length of penstocks          5.5m/73m          6.25m/65m
Number and capacity of units             3 x 40 MX           3 x 50 MW
Total installed capacity                    120 KW              150 MN
Type of turbines                   Vertical Kaplan    Vertical Kaplan
Type of generators                      44,445 kVA         55,556 kVA
Type of transformers                  l1-kV/220-kV       11-kV/220-kV
Switchyard                              Double bus         Double bus
type 220-kV        type 220-kV
Geology
2.      The extensive geological investigations carried out reveal satisfac-
tory foundation conditions for both dams, comprising mainly gneiss with
overburden at the flanks reaching thicknesses of up to 9 m at Kodasalli and
15 m at Kadra. Impermeabilization and consolidation grouting are expected to



-60-
Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 7
be required. Special treatment of a limestone band on Kodasalli's reservoir
rim may be necessary to ensure its watertightness. The Project is located in
a zone of low seismic activity for which the Indian Standard (IS) code
prescribes a horizontal seismic ground acceleration of 0.04 g. The seismic
co-efficients adopted for design were 0.10 g (horizontal) and 0.05 g (verti-
cal). These are considered adequate, especially in view of the rather
moderate height of the dams (40 m), for which additional provis-ons for
reservoir-induced earthquakes are not required.
Hydrology
3.      The average flows at Kodasalli and Kadra are 204 m3/s and 257 m3/s
respectively. Live storage capacities are 179 million m3 and 209 million m3
respectively. The spillways of both dams will be equipped with radial gates
which allow a ischarge at each dam equal to the probable maximum flood of
about 10,000 m3/s. Energy dissipation will be provided by conventional flip
bucket stilling basins.
Sediments
4.      The catchment area is well covered by forests which are subject to
extensive conservation measures. GOK has comprehensive plans for further
measures to conserve the watershed and sedimentation is not expected to cause
difficulties in project operation or to shorten significantly the economic
life of the schemes. However, low level sluices will be provided in both
dams to permit the flushing of sediment deposits.
Generation Management System for Kalinadi
5.      After completion of Kalinadi Stage-II the Kalinadi hydropower complex
will consist of five generating stations with a total of 1,240 MW. In addi-
tion, a third stage is tentatively scheduled for commissioning in 1997/98
which would add another 400 MW to the complex. To optimize the output of
this complex within the regional power system, KPC will to install a com-
puterized generation management system in Kalinadi with computer terminals in
the State and Regional Load Dispatch Centers in Bangalore.
6.      The generation management system would comprise:
(a)  computerized System Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) equipment to
be installed at Nagjhari, which is the largest power station in the
Kalinadi complex;
(b)  rain and river flow measurement instruments, including data transmit-
ters to be installed in various locations in the catchment area of
the Kalinadi River; and



-61-
Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 7
(c) radio and telephone facilities for communication between the stations
in the basin, KPC's headquarters and the State and Regional Load
Dispatch Centers.
7.      The Project provides for assistance by consultants for the procure-
ment and installation of the equipment, the selection or development of the
necessary computer programs, and for training during the first three months
of operation.
Sharavathi Rehabilitation Project
8.      The Sharavathi generating plant accommodates 10 turbine-generator
units of 89 MW capacity each. These units were commissioned between 1964
and 1977. KPC has proposed the rehabilitation of seven generating units to
ensure reliable operation and extend their working life. The rehabilitation
would include the replacement of generator stator coils with modern bar type
epoxy-insulated windings which, due to their higher temperature tolerance
would allow the generators to opera.e at the higher continuous capacity of
105 MW. This improvement would permit use of the maximum turbine capability
without any modification to the existing Pelton runners which are in good
condition. The installed capacity of the Sharavathi generating station is
expected to increase after rehabilitation from the present 890 MW to about
1000 NW.
9.      The rehabilitation works would comprise:
(a) replacemernt of the stator coils at the generators;
(b)  replacement of excitation systems;
(c)  replacement of old switchgears;
(d)  replacement of metering and testing instruments
(e)  repair of sluices of the power intakes;
(f)  corrosion treatment for the hydraulic system, including penstocks,
pipes, etc.; and
(g)  consultancy services to prepare a repair plan to eliminate the
leakages of the Talakalale dam which is part of the Sharavathi
hydropower scheme, and supervision of the repair works.



-62-
Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 7
KEB component
Reinforcement of the Transmission System
10.     In Karnataka the bulk of power supply comes from power generating
facilities located in the nQrthwestern and northeastern corners of the State,
while the main load centers, particularly Bangalore, are in the extreme
southeast. Roughly 500 km separates these power sources from the power
consumption centers. Hitherto the transmission system of KEB relied on a
trunk system at 220-kV between the 890 NW Sharavathi hydro scheme and Ban-
galore and a system of 220-kV and 66-kV lines to load centers throughout
Karnataka. KEB's transmission system is now insufficient to carry the cur-
rent power demand and system losses have reached the very high value of 22%
of net generation. As a consequence, voltage fluctuations exceed normally
accepted standards, reaching as much as 25%. Faced with this situation and
the necessity of evacuating the power output from Kalinadi Stage-II and the
Kaiga Nuclear Power Station, KEB plans to reinforce its bulk transmission
system by building a 400-kV trunk transmission link between the Kalinadi area
and Bangalore. A number of other transmission works would permit KEB to
accommodate the loads expected up to a 1995-96 time horizon.
11.     In essence, the proposed reinforcement of KEB's transmission system
comprises (Map IBRD 19793):
(a) construction of a 400-kV double-circuit trunk tansmission line, about
450 kms long, between Kaiga and Bangalore by way of Sirsi and
Davangere;
(b) construction of a 400-kV single-circuit 130 km long transmission line
between Munirabad and Davangere. (This line will assist in evacuat-
ing power from the Ramagundam (NTPC) and Raichur (KPC) coal-fired
power statiois, since the NTPC is putting up a 400-kV single-circuit
transmission line between its power generating facility at Ramagundam
and Munirabad via Raichur where KPC operates a 2x210 MW steam power
plant);
(c) establishment of a 2x315 MVA, 400/220-kV receiving substation at
Sirsi. (This substation will permit the connection of the 400-kV
trunk transmission line Kaiga-Bangalore to the 220-kV transmission
line between the Sharavati hydro scheme and Hubli through which is
currently being routed the power generated at the 810 MW Nagjhari
hydro scheme);
(d)  establishment of a 315 MVA, 400/220-kV receiving substation at
Davangere;



-63-
Annex 3.1
Page 5 of 7
(e)  establishment of a 500 lVA, 400/220-kV receiving substation at
Nelamangala near Bangalore;
(£) construction of a 220-kV single-circuit transmission line about
225 kms long from Davangere to Gauribidanur via Iiriyurl
(g) construction of a 220-kV double-circuit line about 31 kms long
between the Kadra and Kodasalli hydro plants via Kaiga;
(h) construction of a 220-kV double-circuit transmission line about
40 kis long between Kodasalli and Nagjhari hydro plants;
(i)  establishment of a 2x100 MVA, 220/66-kV receiving substation at
Nalavalli to supply mainly the pumping load of the Bangalore water
works; and
(j)  establishment of a 2x100 MVA, 220/66-kV receiving substation at
Hiriyur.
12.     KEB will engage consultants to assist in the design and construction
supervision of 400-kV lines. The 220-kV lines would be designed according to
KIB's existing standards, which are in line with international standards.
Distribution Studies
13.     The distribution studies included in the Project scope concern the
formulation of a master plan to govern development of the distribution system
in Bangalore. In essence the studies would involve:
(a)  choice of strategies for the long-term development of the city's
subtransmission (220 and 66-kV levels) and primary distribution (10
to 20-kV levels).  The consultants would c&pare at least three
different approaches, namely:
(i) to maintain the three current voltage levels, 220, 66 and 11 kV;
(ii)  to eliminate the intermediate 66-kV level and bring directly
into the city 220-kV feeders; and
(iii)  to introduce for both strategies (a) and (b) a new primary
distribution voltage level of 20-kV instead of the current
11-kV.
(b) definition of a medium-term investment program for distribution to
cover required works in distribution reinforcement in a five-year
time-slice;



-64-
Annex 3.1
Page 6 of 7
(c) preparation of contract packages and technical specifications for
the works included in the time-slice above; and
(d) supervisory assistance for similar studies in 2 to 3 further cities
and training for KEB staff to continue distribution planning on a
regular basis.
14.     Appropriate computer programs for studies under (a) and (b) above
would be provided by the consultants selected to perform these tasks. The
necessary data base would be prepared by KE1 with the assistance of these
consultants.
Technical Files Management
15.     KEB does not have a system to maintain and update its technical
files. Serious problems are therefore encountered whenever modifications or
studies have to be done on the power system. Hence, KEB has decided to
establish a system to maintain properly its technical files. A study will
determine the type of technical information to file and the procedures to
update it. The consultants engaged by KEB would therefore execute the fol-
lowing tasks:
(a) a review of the current state of technical files;
(b) establishment of standards for technical information subject to
filing;
(c)  procedures for filing and maintenance of the technical files; and
(d) procedures for updating the technical files.
16.     The consultants would provide KEB with the computer programs needed
for record keeping of the technical files and for information retrieval.
These programs should be compatible with the hardware currently zsed by KEB
to maintain inventory of major electrical equipment.
CEA Component
Design of Load Dispatch System for the Southern Resion
17.     The power systems of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala,
and the Union Territory of Pondichery, which form the Southern Regional
Electricity Gri., are presently controlled by telephone-directed instruc-
tions. Overall monitoring of the Grid is being done from a Regional Load
Dispatch Center (RLDC) at Bangalore. Data telemetered from the generating
stations and a few selected substations are being logged manually. During



-65-
Annex 3.1
Page 7 of 7
emergencies the load dispatcher has no means of effectively controlling the
behavior of the system as full information concerning the status of the Grid
is not available at the RLDC and, even if it were, the facilities are not
adequate for the dispatcher to handle the information. With the application
of data processing for the supervisory control and data acquisition supported
by efficient telecommunication, the power system management has become more
effective. On the basis of a conceptual study prepared in late 1983 encom-
passing the Southern Regional Electricity Grid and projects reports covering
the load dispatch requirements within the constituent states, CEA has decided
to proceed with the establishment of a computerized load dispatch system for
the Southern Region. The design of this system, which would include:
(a) computing facilities for programming, controlling and recording power
generation in plants;
(b) computing facilities for programming, controlling and recording load
flows in transmission lines; and
(c) radio and telephone communication facilities, throughout the Southern
Region,
is included in the proposed Project.



INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of KPC-ProJect Component
4985        4986          4987         1988         4989         499          499           992         .993          1994
421344  2342 344234 4 23 4423 4 423 4 423 4412 3 4  23 4 423 4
1.  GENERAL
1.1   Prepartory Works                    -  _   .    - - _       - . _.in
1.2   Reservoir Cealng & Afforestatlon                                                                        _       _   c   -    _   -                 m    a
2.  KCOASALU H.E.P
2.4   Dcam, CMI Works                          . ,*0   a.   a  a  a as as s                                        - o    - s  m                 a  a      -
2.2   Powerhouse & Swtch Yard, Cvil Works    a. Wa .-  *- *- .-  *- *-  a- so D    *  T       - - -           --- m
2.3   HydraullcSteelStructures&Crone           a as. ..  *- la. *.* -... ... ...   a O                                    -  a        a       -I aR  -  - I
2A  |Cwnerattg Unit                               .a. ..  .a   -    .aa *- *            a        *-       - * - - | -  a *  -  -  -     a  a  a  *  a      a  *  -N -o  - 
2.5   ElectrIA Equipment                           Sas aON. SOal. Saga a.4 aS1 we a. ea.               O   a. s                                                  
3.  KADRA H.E.P.
3.4   Dam. Civil Works                     .. .. *  *.  .  *.  m- *      *   a  a  a  -          _ a  a  a  -  a  -  -                               _ a               .  . aa
3.2   Powerhouse & Switch Yard. Cil Works     *. .-  a.  .     a .   .-.. a . s      -   a  -  a  a a  a       - -  a                                                  | 
3.3   Hydraulic Steel Structures & Crane                *      R *- a- *- *- *  *-   a-     *-      a a    _                    _   a _ *     a _  .-      - S
3.4   Generating U.nfls                           *a0 a. *as *. a0 a ..   S too RO  ofa.    RO      W  as     ,-aaaa--a                                          
3.5   ElectrIcal EquIpment                              ... *    . .. . ..  *.               a     a- t _ R. O.  a.  _ W  a      a a      a I          a
4.  GENERATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM                      *O.we ...                        .  .et S. *   -  a _   -  a _  a  a  a  - a  a           
5.  REHABILITATION SHARAVATHI H.E.P.
5.1   Staor CoIls & ExcIaion System                R    a ..  *-    *  S 0  a  ma _   a a           a a  a a . .   a  a  a T        a  a a  - I     a a
5.2  Instruments & Testing Equipment                 #a mas a.0 a.S.  matPR  a.6 a0  a So -oN -a  -"'Naf't .aaaaaa                              
5.3  Swltchgears  Ctirrent Transformers              a.      .       asma  *. a .    R-   So _  N  as S W                       -  -a  a --a|
5.4   S ues & Corroslon Treatrent           *         *. t        a           1 1  a  a  I  I   a a  a a  a a      a
6.  CONSULTANCY
6.41  Reservoir Operation Study                                                m_ .I
6.2   Generation Management A5sumce                                           I    a T m
6.3   Tdokakdole Dam                                                                      1-1--i-
I      Ill~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1
0.
malloa. Preparollon of Tender and Tender Prooesuseg;-  Sa MAanutoxtulng & Trorsport of EQuIpment. inmo,Condruction or Eiseflon
Waft 9w*-3056&2 



KARNATAKCA POWER PROJECT
ImnplentatIon Schedule d KEB-Project Component
19W     19Wm         197         "as         1969        "990        19192                    199319
_  2T        T 3 4  4  2  3 4       _ 2 31 1234 _  2  3 4  4         3 4 _  2  3 4 _  2  3 14  4   2   3 4  4    21 3     4
4  CvVM-GI*v T.L                  ]'1't'''"F                                          447T 
2 MoklaVoi &Astation
34rIu SMwUwktaton
220066k W
4       Kddr-Aboso T.L.
220 II. 31 km-
5 Kodasolfl-Nogjho T.L
220 V.40 kM                                                               em--*---
6 kalgo-Sirsf T.
400 MV 50 km *rn                                                                                                  inmmn               m m
7 Sirs Substotion
220/400V W*eWo. i00 be ..                                                                               ---    -mm              m---m
400i MV 440 kM                                                                        *mdog amndm                         m    m m        i
9 Doaongere Subtation
400/22 kV                                                                            Idid No . Ise boo mM                       -=    
10 Davanrerel-Nebomxonol TL
400 W,. 250 km                                                m   .e                                       
41 Neiomangato SUbsahwo
400/20k Wae                                                                          m      mi m mm
12 Dovongere-Mun*oxod T.L
400 W. 120k                                                  eme ffn            mmm         m        
43 Conwultacy                                                     Jam                  
e...Prepraftio ofTender & Tender Firooessk. am - Monufoctwlng & Tranpr ofl Equln wn  ConOnruxio  or Erectin               I



-68-                           Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
Resettlement Plan
Background
1.      The Kalinadi Hydroelectric Project Stage-I displaced approximately
9,000 people, as a result of construction of the Supa, Bommanahalli and
Tattihalla reservoirs. By April 1986 approximately 6,700 people had been
resettled to a nucleated colony called Ramnagar, near the Supa reservoir.
Replacement agricultural lands which were cleared and terraced were provided
to the displaced people free of charge in amounts of from 1 to 4 ha per
family. The colony of Ramnagar was provided with complete urban infrastruc-
ture including a treated water system, hospital, primary school, town
panchyat office, temple, mosque and church. The displaced families financed
construction of their new houses from compensation received, on plots
provided free of charge. Sites were provided for industrial, commercial and
artisan enterprises on the edge of the colony. The remaining population not
resettled to Ramnagar as of the time of Stage-II appraisal, numbering
approximately 2,000 persons, are now reported to be settled on an extension
of the Ramnagar colony or to have found alternative arrangements of their own
choosing. GOK has recently completed a survey of the status of families
displaced by Stage-I which indicates that their resettlement is essentially
complete.
Resettlement Under the Proposed Project
2.      Kalinadi Stage-II will displace an estimated total of just under
2,000 people comprising 544 families (314 households) living in 19 villages
in the vacinity of Kadra and Kodasalli. Of these 19 villages, 7 with a
population of 1,545 will be fully submerged. The remaining 12 villages are
partially affected and the number of affected persons is approximately 430.
KPC has not conducted a census of the 2 reservoir areas but has relied on
reports of village representatives and Revenue Department officers active in
the area. A complete census will be conducted by KPC in the first year of
the resettlement program (1987) which will refine these estimates and assess
whether any partially affected villages require complete or partial reloca-
tion. Villages with residual land holdings of uneconomic size or whose
number of remaining families would be to small to be socially and economi-
cally viable, will also be resettled. The census will also assess the
preferences of displaced families among the resettlement and rehabilitation
options.
3.      The affected populated is composed of 468 land owning families
(Khatedars) and 76 families who do not own any land, but work as agricultural
laborers. Both Khatedars and landless laborers maintain cattle and other



-69-
Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 6
livestock, which number approximately 1,600. Landless laborers also work as
fishermen, weavers and in several other trades. The affected villages are
disbursed throughout the heavily forested Kalinadi River Basin, connected
only by forest roads passable in the dry season. Their production system is
dominated by paddy cultivation on alluvial fans (irrigated from both seasonal
and permanent flows in nullahs) and on dry uplands, as well as areca nut
plantations. A large variety of fruit trees and garden cultigens, such as
sugarcane and squash, are grown in household compounds. Some 120 Khatedars
own more than 2 ha of land, while 262 Khatedars own between 0.4 and 2 ha and
86 Khatedars own 0.4 ha or less. The last category subsist partly on wages
paid in kind for their labor on the larger holdings. Forest products,
including large quantities of dead leaves used as manure on paddy lands,
vines and poles used for fence construction, and seasonal fruits, nuts,
medicinal plants and so forth, are obtained from 'gowlis' who are cowherders
liviAg in the nearby forest. The gowli population will not be displaced by
the reservoirs being constructed and present information suggest that the
gowlis' employment opportunities and subsistence will not be significantly
affected. However, this will be clarified when the census is completed (late
1987) and, if necessary, the resettlement plan will be amended accordingly.
Resettlement Policy
4.      GOI has set minimum standards for compensation of compulsarily dis-
placed people through the Land Acquisition Act of 1894 as amended in 1984.
This Act provides for cash compensation for: (a) the market value of all
property loss (including standing crops) at the date of notification; (b) a
solatium equal to 30% of (a); and (c) interest at 12% per annum from the time
of notification to disbursement of compensation. GOK has specified increased
compensation through order No. PWD282 PPC85 (December 28, 1985) which, in
addition to benefits defined by the Land Acquisition Act, provides for either
replacement land or a substantial increase in cash compensation. KPC places
emphasis on restoring the productive capacity of displaced people. This is
to be achieved in the case of the Kalinadi Stage-II through: (a) the alloca-
tion of replacement agricultural land to all displaced families who so
desire; (b) the allocation of replacement grazing lands to all displaced
villages; (c) the allocation of replacement fuelwood sources to all displaced
villages; and (d) the reconstruction of public infrastructure in the new
village sites. The purchasing power of productively resettled farmers will
make viable other resettlement options in trades and small industries and
training for these will be included in the resettlement program. It is
expected that a few opportunities will also exist for establishing ferry
services across the reservoirs, fishing and other new occupations. The
resettlement sites are to be provided with electricity from a nearby 11 kV
feeder, potable water through wells and pumps and improved road links to the
Hubli-Karwar state highway. The KPC's resettlement policy specifically
includes the provision of development benefits to the host population already
living in the resettlement zone.



-70-
Annex 3.3
Page 3 of 6
Receiving Areas
6.      KPC has identified eight sites near the existing villages of
Halavallit Heggar, Kalleshwar, Kammani and Dongri, which are located on the
southwest bank of the Bedthi (Cangavali) River in the Ankola Taluk.  A total
of 613 ha is available for the displaced population. The sites lie
approximately 40 kilometers from the Kalinadi River Basin. Representatives
of the affected population have visited the sites and expressed satisfaction
with these areas. KPC plans to provide the resettlement zones with irriga-
tion through the construction of two pickup weirs across the Bedthi River.
The bulk of the land in the resettlement zone is flat and suitable for
gravity irrigation; where this is not possible the plan calls for the instal-
lation of lift systems from the Hesehalla River, a tributary of the Bedthil
Preliminary assessment of the soils by the State Agricultural Department
indicates that they are suitable for paddy, pulses and garden crops such as
coconut and areca nut.
Resettlement Options
7.      Five resettlement options have been planned and the number of
families expected to choose each is shown below:
Resettlement Option                           No. of Families
Self-Resettlement to
Place of Own Choosing                               100
Allocation of Irrigated
Agricultural Plots                                  394
Transport and Related
Small Businesses                                      6
Industrial Training                                  20
Shops and Related
Commercial Businesses                                24
It is anticipated that approximately 100 families, primarily relatively
wealthy landowners, will elect to resettle themselves elsewhere. They will
be provided substantial cash compensation for immovable property
expropriated. It is expected that approximately 394 landless, marginal,
small and medium-sized land holding families will elect to receive replace-
ment farmland. KPC proposes to allot irrigated land to these families at the



-71-
Annex 3.3
Page 4 of 6
rate of 1.6 ha to those who have lost more than 2 ha and 1.2 ha for those who
have lost from 0.4 to 2 ha and 0.8 ha for the landless. Not all families
will wish to remain in agriculture, and for this reason opportunities for
small businesses, shops, transport services, and other trades are being
planned for some 50 families. On the basis of present estimates there will
be ample land available in the receiving areas to accommodate all those who
are entitled and wish to be resettled there.
8.      In addition to the provisions for replacement farming lands and for
the creation of new employment opportunities in the resettlement zone, KPC
will instigate social forestry projects in which fuelwood species will be
grown to meet the requirements of the displaced families so as to protect the
forest resources around the resettlement areas. Provisions will also be made
for ~razing land for the cattle which will be transferred. It is estimated
that approximately 40 ha will be required for establishing the several vil-
lage sites and 40 ha will be required for the new fuelwood and grazing areas.
Timing of Transfer
9.      Some 46 families of Virje village will be affected immediately by
Kadra construction works. An area of 8 ha of land situated on the left bank
of the Kalinadi Rover three kilometers downstream from the construction site
has been identified as a temporary settlement for these families. They will
continue to cultivate their lands for another 3 years, as well as have the
advantage of employment in project works or small businesses. Submergence in
the Kadra and Kodasalli reservoirs area is scheduled to begin in 1991 and
1992 respectively. The resettlement implementation schedule covers the
period 1987 to 1994 and is compatible with the construction schedules for
the Kadra and Kodasalli dams (Annex 3.2). The receiving areas are to be made
completely habitable, both with respect to village sites and irrigated farms,
by March 1990. It is anticipated that families from both reservoir areas
will be evacuated and transferred to the receiving areas in one year, and
resettlement and rehabilitation programs will continue for four years after
that including complete maintenance of public infrastructure by KPC to the
year 1995.
Organization
10.     The resettlement plan, approved by GOK, will be implemented by KPC.
For advisory purposes, GOK has constituted, through Government Order No.
P0207PP84 (July 24, 1985), a high-level rehabilitation committee. This
committee is headed by the Karwar Divisional Commissioner and has as its
members divisional officers of the concerned departments of Forests, Agricul-
ture, Land Records, Land Acquisition, and so forth. The Project Engineer of
the Kalinadi Hydroelectric Project will serve as Member-Secretary. The
committee also has 'non-official members', who are prominent local farmers
representing the displaced population. KPC has experienced staff familiar



-72-
Annex 3.3
Page 5 of 6
with the resettlement at Ramnagar under Stage-I and has proposed a training
course for the staff assigned to Stage-II resettlement. Curricula, designed
by experienced KPC officers, as well as outside national and international
consultants, will draw on lessons learned in Stage-I and experience elae-
where.
Monitoring
11.     The resettlement process over the entire eight years of its planning
and implementation will be monitored closely by KPC in order to provide
project management with information on progress at six-monthly intervals. A
senior officer, with training and experience in social science techniques of
monitoring, will design a monitoring system to assess progess with respect to
both the physical works associated with the resettlement and the well-being
of the displaced families. The monitoring methods will be developed in
consultation with the Bank and six-monthly reports will be provided to the
Bank for review and comment.
Development Plan for New Sites
12.     The development plans for the new sites are not yet finalized.
Detailed engineering studies, soil surveys, and design documents will be
prepared during the first year of resettlement plan implementation (1987).
KPC will carry out all detailed planning of the irrigation system as well as
its construction, the State Town Planning Department will prepare detailed
township layout plans, to be implemented by KPC, the State Department of
Agriculture will conduct soil surveys and the State Forest Department will
prepare a social forestry plan to be implemented by KPC, all in the first
year (1987). Housing will be constructed by the displaced families themsel-
ves on the plots allocated by KPC. Transport facilities will be provided to
the displaced families to salvage building materials from their present
houses, such as tiles, wooden rafters, doors and windows. Technical assis-
tance required will be provided free of cost by KPC. Public infrastructure
such as the primary schools, high school, hospital, and village panchyat
office, etc. will be built by KPC or contractors, who will employ qualified
persons from the displaced families. Major works, such as installation of
the irrigation system, improvement of the communication system, etc. will be
carried out under contracts which provide for the employment of persons from
displaced families. Preparation of the agricultural lands including the
removal of stumps and roots, contour bunding and terracing will be done under
the supervision of the Soil Conservation Department. Land preparation is to
be entirely manual in order to avoid the adverse consequences of top soil
removal and soil compacting associated with mechanical preparation. The
displaced families will do all the manual work involved in the land prepara-
tion process and will be paid a daily wage. Employment in land preparation
and construction of public infrastructure facilities will provide income to
all of the families during the transition period until the new agricultural



-73-
Annex 3.3
Page 6 of 6
lands and irrigation systems are ready. Land preparation activitiesp con-
struction of irrigation systems, provision of potable water and electricity,
completion of access roads and the construction of public buildings are all
expected to be completed by the year before transfer of the population to the
site (1989). The allocation of house plots and the issuance of titles to
agricultural lands and house plots will take place one year before transfer.
It is anticipated that cultivation can begin in the year following transfer
(1991). Similarly training programs in industrial occupations and other
trades as well as programs to start up commercial enterprises or small
businesses will be implemented in the year following transfer (1991). Final-
ized development plans for the new sites will be submitted for Bank review
and comment when they are completed (1987)e
Evaluation
13.     KPC will engage a suitably qualified and experienced evaluation testm,
independent of the project and acceptable to the Bank. Evaluation will begin
in the year prior to transfer to the new sites (1989) and will be conducted
on an annual basis. Evaluation reports will be provided each year to the
Bank for review and comment.



-74-
ARNTIAt WS  PSOJAC3
Catal lad Coat Sat iatl*aA nnex  3.4
. ... ........ ..................
Local  Porqig   it.tl              Local   *eotltn  Ttatl
I. IPOCOVSN .a 4-                                 -*                         ..       ..       ..
...........WM
A. PlUtLIUIMSfY WOE
Lsn, Saaattlueta,t, Rebiltltatiwn       122       1      12                9.4      0.0      9.4
ed Sl"o Prtaraton, cCam                 170,      2      172               3.1      0.1    13.2
Ctapmtory Affooeatatlon                 is        1       76               5.8      0.1      5.8
.....    .....   .....             ..... .   ....I   ...... .. ......... ..
Subtotat                               6               370              28.2      0.2    28.4
D. CIVIL WORKS
Iadre ben                              393       80      473              30.2      6.2    36.4
Kadra Pwar loa                          74       15 I                      5.7      1.2      6.9
15641t1 I tca                          314       U       .8               24.1      4.9    29.1
Kodealtl Pow ur No.                     73n      15       as               5.6      1.2      6.8
.....  ...;  .... .                 ;;... ..... ....... ...... .. ..
Subtotal                             8        175    1029               65.7    13.5    79.2
C. laBsI-OEUAyTU  ZSS                      232      927     1158              17.8    71.3    P.1
0. NZCUAItAL EJulPNrT
Per4tocks                               26        5       31               2.0      0.6      2.4
Wats                                   146       28      174              11.3      2.1    13.4
Cram & Otbar iquipt                     20        4       23               1.5      0.3      1.8
........ ..........  ..... .....   .....   .....   .....
subtotat                             192       37      229              14.a      2.8    17.6
S. ELCTICAI.t SWIPulwT
Truwfooestn & suft dgaa                 46       37       83               3.5      2.9      6.4
Poets, CaMes 6 Other SCwlpnt            29       23       52               2.2      1.8      4.0
sitdcard strteture                       6        5       10               0.4      0.4      0.8
.....;   .....i   .....            .....    .....    .....i
Subtotal                              80       66      1                 6.2      5.0    11.2
W. ISEATIO  r              MTN
SCAM t< adp                             27       i3      100               2.1      5.6      7.7
Talaseteftan S C* amt.atfo, equip.       2        7        9               0.2      0.5      0.7
.....   .....;  ....I              .....    .....    .....
sbtwal                                29       eo      109               2.3      6.1      0.4
e. SKAVAtSI BNA8ILITATION
_sator Celto                            72      201      276               5.5    1S.7    21.2
iaator Imltation estas                  11       31       42               0.8      2.4      3.2
Inrtrnst  Tooel 4 Othar EquIp.           S       13       I8               0.4      1.0      1.4
Pow  stuic   S 1l1ting n                2        7        9               0.2      0.5     0.7
corroslon Tas tont                       3        a       10               0.2      0.6      0.8
Switeb u teut_snt                       3        9       12               0.2      0.7     0.9
.. .......... ........   .....  ..... ......   .....
Stotal                                95      271      367               7.3    20.9    28.2
U. FIELDS a OFFICE EwIMiUt
Sarevia i sIntenoe. Vedetee              8        6       14               0.6      0.5      1.1
s     8vy & Ofaffee tpant                2        2        4               0.1      0.2     0.3
Stotal                                11        8       18               0.       0.6      .4
t *tAIISO                                    A        8       12              0.3       0.6     0.9
J.    WATACtY                               10       26       36               0.8      2.0     2.7
K.  ItUERIUO 6 ADNIIISTItATION             257        3      260              19.8     0.2    20.0
SIOTi   COSTS  tPC CaPOIEllT              2134     1602    376               164.2       123.2   287.4
It~~~~~~~ * _N _  _ -wu
it. TUIg  IS4tt
Ksio-Sfrsf                              78        9       87               6.0      0.7     6.7
Sirai-OavDara                          215       24      239              16.5      1.8    18.4
Davanagare.Notmeggto                   381       42      424              29.3      3.3    32.6
Oft"W to-Ilunlra38tl 9?               11      108               7.4      0.8      8.3
.....   ... ... . -...    .       . ... .... .....   ..... ...... ..
Wteotal                              7         86      857              59.3     6.6    65.9
S.   ITATIOS  * 4   kV
SIrs?                                  178       15      193              1.        1.2    14.9
bavwangra                              164       14      17S              12.6      1.1    13.7
Nalmaa ta                              197       t7      214              15.1      1.3    16.4
Subtotal~~~~~~... .. .....   ...... ..... ... .. ......... ..
Sahtota1                             538       4?      585             *1.4      3.6    45.0
C. tASISSION LI *S  220 kV
aaibldaw            r                   72        8       80              5.6       0.S     6.2
Kadrmti-tgeaeli                        17        2       19               1.3      0.1      1.4
Kodaaaltl.uagJhai.I                     20        2       22               1.5     0.2       1.?
....       .....   .....          .....    .....    ....
Subtotal                             109       12      121              8.4       0.9     9.3
0. SWs:aTt  * 220 kV
nabavalii                               57        6       63               4.4      0.5      4.9
Uirip*                                  49        6       55              3.8      0.5      4.2
Stbtotat                             106       12    i18                 8.2      0.9     9.1
*. tPUwlNs fACILITtEs                        0        2        3               0.0      0.2     0.2
*. COPATANCy                                17        9       26               1.3      0.7     2.0
G. Stuiumaust A NINISTATION                324        3      327             24.9       0.3    25.2
...................CUOCKENT                                        .
Gi.  Ata cmsehT                           1865CM MIS  17`1    2057           143.5    13.2   116.7
A. CUILttANCY                                3        8       10               0.2      0.6      0.8
TOTAL. UNS LINE CMST                  3999;    1781    5780~             307.    13'6'.9'  I 1444. 5
PI  feet Cont a   1"                n224       99      323              17.1      7.6    24.8
ftclb  Cowtinut17ea                 1210        9     187               931     46.7   139.8
TAL  0t  t                            5433    248 2M417.8   191.2    09.2
31"3                _a*e                    e_*. _as_



DO!A
RARNATAKA PUIM ROJ101
KPc R- us:
Procurement Timtable
Date Bid                   Date of                    1.B.                          Date
Bid        Document ent  Dato of 1.3. Sae of Bid   Date of                     of  Date Contract Contract
Documet No.      to W.B.      Concurrence  Documents    Bid Oenina Bid Evaluation Agggd              Conneted
Cvn.I IORKCS
Kadra Dan I/                     1.(d                                                                                 3/87           9/93
Kadra Power house
and Switch yard                 l.(b)        5/87            8/87          9/87         12/87         2/88           3/88           2/91
Kodasali D_m                      1.tc)       5/87            8/87          9/87         12J87         2/88           3/88          12/93
Kodas'lli Power house
and Switch yard                 1.(d)        5/87            8/87          9/87         12/87         2/88           3/88           6/91
T! O - GDUATOR STS               2.           5/87            7/87          8/87         11/87         1/88           2/88          12/94
C^AMCL MUIXW
Penstocks                        3.(a)        6187            8/S7          9/87         12/87         2188           3/88           2/91
Gate6                            3.(b)        1/88            3/88          4/88          7/88         9/88          10/88          12/93
CrAs                             3. (c)       3/88            5/88          6/88         8/88         10/88          11/88           8/90
ELCRICAL 3QUIPZW
Transfoners                      4. (a)       6/87            8/87          9/87         11/87         1/88           2/88          12/92
Panel. Cabes and other
Electric lquipmet              4.(b)        7/87            9/87         10/87         12/87         2/88           3/88          12'94
Switch Sears                     4.(c)        8/87           10/87         11/87          1/88         3/88           4/88          12/93
Switch yard structures           4. (d)       8/?7           10/87         11/87         2/88          4/88           5/88          12/93
GMUIAAUO N*NAGUEEIT STSTM
Scada -  squipset                S.(a)       10/8/           12/87          1/88         4/88          6/88           8/88          11/92
Telemetering & Comunication      5. (b)      11/87            1/88          2/88         5/88          7/88           9/88          W292
EquzLpent
SRAVA!U  ABILIXTATIOU WOS
qeerator Coils                   6.(a)        7/8t            8/87          9/87         11/81         1/88           2/88           9/93
Generator Incitation Squipsent   6.(b)        7/87            8/87          9/87         11/87          1/88          2/88           9/93
Switchgesrs                      6. (c)       8/87            9/87         10/87        12/87          2/88           3/88           9/92
Transfoxaers                     6.(d)        7/87            8/87          9/87         10/87         12/87          1/88           9/92
Power Conduits and
Corrosion treatent              6.(e)        8/87           10/87         11/87         12/87         2/88           3/88          12/90
GMUAL PROPERTY (KC)
service and maintenance
Vehiclts                        7. (a)       8/87           10/87         11/87          1/88         3/88           4/88          12/88
aintenance Maebineries           7. (b)       9/87           11/87         12/87          2/88         4/08           5/88           2/89     o
Survey Iquipment                 7.(c)       10/87           12/87          1/88         3/88          5/88           6/88           9/88
Office Computers                 7.(d)       11/87            1/88          2/88         4/88          6/88           7/88          12/88
1/ Kadra Dan Civil Works are financed by Kuwait rund.



INDIA
KARNATAKA POi    PR W
Procurement Tetabe
Bid      Date Sid       Date of      Date of    Date of        1.1.       Date      Date       Date
Dacment  Docuimate        W..       S,le of Bid      Bid     Acceptance  Contract  Contract  Contract
No.     Sent to W.B.  Concurrence   Docuizents    2ni        of Av"d  Awarded    8           Cameleted
Poner TrasDfomerst
220kV for Malavelli aDd Ririyur Subst.              l.t()       2/87         5/87           6/87       9/87      12/87       1/88        1/88      3/89
400kV for Sirei and Dsavngere sabot.                1.(b)       8/90        10/90          12/90       3/91       5/91       6/91        6/91      6/93
400kV for Nelanangala Subst.                        1.(c)       8/87        10/87          12/88       3/89       5/89       6/89        6/89      6/91
Ssitchgear and Control quipLent:
for  alavelli and Ririyur Subst.                    2.(a)       2/87         5/87           6/87       9/87      12/87       1/88        1/88      3/89
for Sirdi and Davangere Subst.                      2.(b)       4/91         6J91           6/91       9/91      11/91       12191      12/91     12/92
for Nelamangsla Subst.                              2.(c)       4/89         6/89           6/89       9/89      11/89       12/89      12/89      6/91
G41vanized Steel Lattical Toers (28.000 torsi):
for 220kV Darangere-Gauribidapur                    3.(a)        -            -             4/86       6/86        -          8/86       8/86      6187
for 220kV Kadra-Kod&aalhi and Kodasalli-Nagjhsri   3.(b)        7/87         9/87           9/87      12/87       2/88       3/88        3/88      6/89
f'- 40OkV Kaiga-Sirsi-Davangere                     3.(c)      10/87         3/88           3/88       6/88       8/88       9/88        9/88      3/90
400kV Davangere-NelaangaLa and
Davangere-furinabad                               3.(d)      10/87        12/87          12/87       5/88       5/88       6/88        6/88      6/89
ACSR Couducters
Drake for Davengere-Gauribidanur (700 khs)          4.(a)       7/87         9/87           9/87      12/87       2/88       3/88        3/88      9/88
Drake for Kadra-Kosasalli and Kodasa.li-
Naajhari (469 kms)                                4.(b)       4/88         6/88           6/88       9/88      11/88      12/88       12/88     12/89
Moose for Kaiga-Davangere (2508 khs)                4.(c)       1/90         3/90           3/90       6/90       7/90        8/90       8/90      9/91
N0ose for Davangere-Nelaaangala (4092 hks)          4.(d)       1/88         3/88           3/88       6/88       7/88        8/88       8/88      9/89
gartbwire (7/3.60):
for Davangere-Gauribidspur (235 k s)                5.(a)       7/87         9/87           9/87      12/87       2/88       3/88        3/88      3/88
for KadraX-odaallL and Kodasalli-Najhari
(160 kas)                                        5.(b)        4/88         6/88          6/88        9/88      10/88      11/88       11/88     12/89
for Kaiga-Davangere (385 bka)                       5.(c)       1/90         3/90           3/90       6/90       7/90        8/90       8/90      9/91
for Daveanere-Nel1a ngals (750 ka.)                 5.(d)       1/88         3/88           3/88       6/88       7/88        8/88       8/88      9J89
Inoulators and Nardvaret
for Davangere-Gauribidapur                          6.(a)       7/87         9/87           9/87      12/87       2/88       3/88        3/88      6/88
for Xsdra-Kodasalli and Kodasalli-Naihari           6.(b)      10/88        12/88          12/88       3/89       5/89        6189       6/89      6/90
for Raiga-Davangere                                 6.(c)       1/89         3/89           3/89       6/89       7/89       8/89        8/89      6/91
for Davangere-Nelamsngals                           6.(d)       1/89         3/89           3/89       6/89       7/89        8/89       8/89      6/91
PoFer Lie Carrier Cmmunication:
for 22O1V Davano re-Gaaribidapur                    7.(a)       7/87         9/87           9/87      12/87       2/88       3/88        3/88      9/88  (
for 220kV Kadra-Kodaahlli and Kodaaali-YaN hari  7.(b)          4/88         6/88           6/88      12/88       2/89        3/89       3189     12/90  1
for 400kV Kdaiga-Davanere                           7.(c)       4/91         6/91           6/91       9/91      11/91      12/91       12/91     12/93   2
for 400kV Davangere-NelNmagla                       7.(d)       4/89         6/89           6/89       9/89      10/89       12/89      12/89     12/91  o



INDtA
KARNATAKA POUER PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF BANK DISBURSEMENTS
................................
IBRD Financial    KPC Component           KEB Component           CEA ComWonent           Total Project
Year &         Cumulative Disb.        Cumulative Disb.        Cumulative Oisb.       Cumulative tisb.
Semester      US S Hil     X          US S it       X        USSNiL        X         US s Hit      X
..............  .................      ... ... ....  ... ....    .  .  ........  ........ ..... ......  ........ .. ------
1988 Si            0.0       0.0           0.3       0.2           0.0       0.0           0.3       0.1
S2             3.2       1.6           0.9      0.7            0.3     33.3           4.4       1.3
1989 $1            11.2      5.7           5.3       4.0           0.6      66.7          17.1      5.2
S2            22.3      11.3          13.2     10.0           0.9    100.0           36.4      11.0
1990 S1           35.5      18.0          23.7      18.0                                  60.1      18.2
S2            51.9      26.3          36.9     28.0                                  89.7      27.2
1991 Si           69.6      35.3          49.5      37.5                                 120.0      36.4
S2            88.1     44.7           62.7     47.5                                  151.7     46.0
1992 S1           106.5     54.0          77.2      58.5                                 184.5      55.9
S2           124.2     63.0           90.1     68.3                                 215.2      65.2
1993 Si           140.4     71.2         100.6      76.3                                 241.9      73.3
82           154.4     78.3          109.5     83.0                                 264.8      80.2
1994 Si           166.8     84.6          118.4     89.8                                 286.2      86.7
S2           176.9     89.7          126.2     95.7                                 304.0      92.1
1995 Si           178.9     90.7         129.0      97.8                                 308.8      93.6
S2           190.5     96.6          131.1     99.4                                 322.5      97.7
1996 Si           197.2    100.0         131.9    100.0                                  330.0    100.0
10~
IP a
0*
ooh 0



-78-                              An   3.6
Page 2 of 2
Couarison of KPC Disbursement with Standard Profile
-0    a      a      a      4      s              9 7   a 9
MU1  MMO  US W ROM AWROAL
D KPC Component   + Bank (Hydro)   O  South Asia Profile         A Bank (Genl.)
Profile           Profile             Paver (Genl.)              Profile for India
Coparison of KEB Disbursement with Standard Profile
GO0-
9 .                         5§.|wW,§.ww.wi     -
940.
0      1     a      a      4      5      6      7      *      9
ITAMNM OM  W ROM AWRAL
o  KEB Component            + Bank (Transmission)         0 South Asia Profile
Profile                     Profile                      Transuissiou



-79-
Annex 4.1
INDIA
KARANTAKA POWER PROJECT
Method for Computation of Rate of Return on Assets
As per the Electricity (Supply) Act, KPC and KEB are required to take
all necessary actions to ensure that total revenues in any financial year
shall, after meeting (i) all expenses properly chargeable to revenues,
including operating, maintenance and management expenses; (ii) taxes on
income and profits; (iii) depreciation; and (iv) interest payable on all
debentures, bonds and loans; produce such surplus of not less than 32 or
higher as notified by GOK, of their respective net fixed asseti in service
at the beginning of the financial year. Critical terms listed above would be
defined as follows:
(a)  "total revenues" means revenues from the sale of electricity and
other services, and miscellaneous income. For KEB, this would in
addition include rural electrification subsidies, state electricity
duties received, and such other subventions received from GOK to
cover extraordinary costs which are borne by KEB and which should
not reasonably be borne by its customers;
(b) "expenses" means the cost of power generated/purchased, fuel,
operating, maintenance, management and administrative expenses, and
all taxes and duties accruing during the financial year, other than
taxes on income and profits;
(c) "taxes on income and profits" consist of income taxes and other
levies accrued according to the provisions of any applicable legis-
lation or regulation;
(d) "depreciation" means a provision, based on gross fixed assets in
service at the beginning of the year, derived by using the straight
line method in conjunction with the schedule of useful life of
assets that was notified according to provisions of Section 68 of
the Act, on April 3, 1985;
(e) "interest payable on all debentures, bonds and loans" means all
interest (whether paid or waived), excluding interest during con-
struction, accrued during the financial year, and all other charges
on debt; and
(f) "net fized assets in service" means the original cost of fixed
assets reduced by the aggregate of the cumulative depreciation taken
on those assets. For KIB, this would furhter be reduced by con-
sumers' contribution for service lines, also reduced by the
aggregate of the cumulative depreciation taken on that portion of
the service lines which were financed by consumer contributions,



INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION
INCOME STATEMENTS
(YEAR ENDING NARCH 31)
(In Rs Million)
- -- .- ACTUAL                      -              - - .---**- FO                          R    E C A          StR---------------------------
1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1A7/88 t968/89 199/90 1990/91 1t991/2 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96
.......... .... .....................  ..........  .......  ..........  .......  ...........  .......  ..........  .......    ..........  .......  ..........    ......  ........  .......  ..........  .......
Generation (GMi)
Sydet                     5412   6060   6670   6853   7460   7008   8336   9058   9998   10153   10639   10561   10766   10915   12232  12927
Thermat                      0       0       0       0       0    214   1051    1741    2181    2207   2525    2981    3215    3342   3342   3342
Totat                     5412   6060   6670   6853    7460    7222   9387  10799   121t9   13059   13163   13542  13981   14256   15574  16269
Electricity Sales tGWh)      5316   5976   6533    6692   7285    7020   9176   10516  1t43   1Z709   12787  13125   13540  13802  15101   1S786
Loss8 (O)                     1.8     1.4    2.1      2.4    2.4      2.8    2.2    2.6       2.8     2.7    2.9    3.1       3.2     3.2    3.0    3.0
Ave. Rev./kWh sold (tPs)     7.53   11.11   10.91   15.01   16.77   17.76   22.74  25.90  27.63   28.76   30.27  33.60  38.76  41.32  48.06  54.76
Revues
Sales of Electricity          400    664      713    1004    1222   1247    2086   2723   3272   3656   3870    4410   5248   5703    7258   8645
other Revemes                   6      24      -6      16      12      83      43      44      59      60      79      84      98     129     140     131
Total Reveies                 406    688      718    1021    1233    1330   2129   2767   3331    3716    3949   4495    5346   583W    7398    8776
Expenses
Fuel Cost                      ..    ..       .        -.    -..       69    281      535     768    891    1170   1585    1961    2339    268    3081
Operation & Maintenamce        1. --            -                      --  -..    134    205  205     252     252     263    306    316       423     503
Estbtishmmnt Expenses  1/    133      174     178     204     170    204      235    270    310       372    428    492    566    679         781     899
Royalty onGeneration           30     119    130    226       290    259    333    362    400    434    426    422    431    437    489    517
Depreciation                   56      91      97     11S    323      269    339    410    457    504    515          S69     622     739    926    1065
Totat Expenses                219    384    40        S 544    784    601    1322    1782    2141    2653    2790   3331   3886    4510    5304    6064
Operating Income              188     303     313     476    450    529    808    985    1191    1263    1159    1163    1460    1322    2094    2712
Interest                     306    371      451      578    710    837    929    1140    1267    1404    1604    1887   2201    2559   3065    3562
Less:Interest Capitalized      98     123     195     294     415    504      404    512    673       566     854    1140    1226    1724    1649   1662
Not Interest                  208    248      257    284    295    306    525    627          594    838      750     747    975      835    1416   1901
..... ;; ....... .......    .... . .. . . .. . . .. .. .. . . .. . . .. . . .. .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .
et Income                     -20      56      56     192     155    223      283    357    597    425    409    416    485    487            678    811
Rate of Return on
Net Fixed Asts in tUse               1.66    1.58    4.97   3.84   5.84    3.8    3.0    5.2          3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0         3.0    3.0
(Historical Costs)
RSR as per Bank Guidelines           8.75    8.43   12.06   11.45   9.36    8.3    8.4    9.3    9.1          8.4     7.7    9.0    6.8       8.4     9.5
Average Tariff (Constant Paisa/kWh)                                          22.1   23.6   23.6   23.0   22.6   23.8   26.4    27.0   30.2   33.1
,........................... ................................................  ...
1/ Includes Oper. & Naint. Expenses for 1980/81 to 1985/86
I .
0or



INDIA
KARNUATAKA POWER PRtOJECT
KARNATAKCA POWER CORPORATION
SOUCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENTS
(YEAR ENDING NMACH 31)
(in Rs MitLion)
---- -- -ACTUAL -- -- -- ----           --- - -- -- - -- - ---- -  FORECAST -- --- --- ---- -- -- -
10811981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/8S 196S/86 1966/8? 1987/88 1968/69 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 199219  1993/94 1994/95 1995/96
sources
Interna Sourest
Inseme from Operations        202     271     287    474      450    5219    808    965    1191    1263    1159    1163    1460    1322    2094    2712
Depreciation                   67     140     110    136    345    269    339    410          457     504    515      569    622      739     926    1065
Total Interna  Sources        29      411     37      60      795     79     1147    13953   1648    1767    1674    1732   2082,   2061    3020   3776
Borrowings
Govt. of Karnataka Loans      561     77     1163     938    1014   1277   1689    961        994    1028   1864    2242    2788    4315    4422   4255
OthrBorowirgs                 237     260    303      499     285      26     293     322     345    381      393     430    47'i    517      566     621
Propos.dLoin                  ...     ...     ...     ..                              146     315    444      479    441      344     156    221       18
Totat Borrowfngs              796    1032    1466    1438    1296   1303    1982    142      165     1853   277 3113   3603    4988   5209   4894
Total sources                1067    1443    1863    20468   2093   2101    3129    2824    3302    3619   4411    4845   5685    7049   822         8670
App icat ions
Investment Program
Proposed Project                                                                      646     755    1068   1262    1528    1426    1169      709                    t
Other Investments             585     999    1510    1661    1336   1375    1728    1102    1606   1348    1899    1844   2476   3997   1.876   5250
Total Investment Program      58       99    110     16      1336   1375    1728    14       231    216   3161    3372   3902    5166    5585    5250
Debt Service
Interet                       208     248     257     284     295    306      525     627     594     838     750     747    975      835    1416   1901
Repayment                      19    188    394        57     157    421      456     483     482     486    416    559    668        793     932    1262
Totat Debt Service            227     46      651     341    452    7127    981    1110    1077   1324    1166    1306   1642    1628    2348    3163
Change In Workng Capitat
Cash                           -9      11       4     -11      52      27      64      65      52      44       4      81      84      65     101     104
other than Cash               263      .3   -301       57    253    -27       356    .99    -188    - 165      30      86      S8     171     195     154
Met change fn Working Cap.   254        8    -2968     4      305       0    420      -34    -136    -120      84     167    141      256     296     2S7
Totat Applications           106     1443    186    208      2093    2101    3129    24      302      619   4411    4845    5685    7049    8229    8670
-  . -33 -------  ----22-   -   -23 33 2   -------    ------         --      -------     ---   -2 ,  ----- 3 2 22- -3---2   3-----
Debt Service Coverage         1.2     0.9     0.6     1.8     1.8     1.1     1.2     1.3    1.5      1.3     1.4    1.3      1.3     1.3     1.3      1.2        .  .
IntemnatCash Gereration(~              *2       3      14       6       7     -12      20      35      23      1 6     10       9       5       9       a
0.



INDIA
KARNATAKCA POWER PROJECT
KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION
BALANCE SNEETS
(A$ 0*1 MARCH 31)
ACTUAL           .~~(I Rs Mitlion).FOEA-
Asset$                    1960/61 196/82 1962183 I9631   1984/85 1965/86 198661? 1967/88 1968/89 198/0M  1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/9  1995/96
Fixed Assets
GosFife As s3781    4121    4524    483                    4964    8915   13681   13681   16794   16794   17533   20396   210716  28193  33551   37418
Less:Acc. Depreciatfon        413     553      663     799    1145    1435    1774    2184    2642    3145    3660    4229    4851    559      6516   758
ftt Fixed Assets             336     367    3862    4038    381V    7480   1190?   1149?   14153   13649   13873   1616?   16225  2260    2704   2983
Cepitut iiorks-fn-Pragres    1109    1769    287      4224    543     3157      119   186'    1115    3531    5953    6462    9684    TM3    7960   9343
Totat fixed Assets           47      537      6737    822     9252   10637'  12026   136    15268   178    192    269          509 30335   3494 398
Current Assets
Cash-en-Mend           ~~~~17  28       32      21      73     100      16"     229     281     325     379     460     544     629      730     833
lawentorf as                  381     410     414      450     472     149     410     410     504    504       526     612     632     846    1007    1123
Electricity Debtors            77      69       47     296     546     794    1043      908     545     305     323     366     437     4715    605      720
Other Current Assets          594      598     467     338     401     421      442     464     487     511     537    564      592     622      653     685
Totat Current Assets         106      1104      60    110     1491    1464    2059    2011    1817    1645    1765    2004    2206    2571    2994    3361
Totat Assets                 5546    6441    7697    9369   107'43   12101   14085   15374   1706    1882    21591   24633   28114   32906   3796    42541
Equity & Liab ifites                                                                                                                                                 I
Equity
Gowt. of Karntaka             560     560      560     560     560     560     560    5SW      50       560     560     50      560     560      560    560
General & Other Reserves      156      180     209    398      553     823    1106    1463    2060    2484    2894    3310    3795    4282    4960   577
Total Equty                   76      740       69     958    1113    1383    1666    2023    2620    3044    3454    3870    4355    4842    5520   6331
LOis TerM Debt (LTD)         4734    5578    6639   802       9161   102716  11802   12748   1392    15287   17608   20162   23098   2729    31570  35202
Current Liabilities            94      123     289     391     469     442     618     603      545     493     529     601     662     77      89      1008
Totat Equity & Liabiltites   5546    6441    7697   9369   10743   12101   14086   15375   1708    1882    21591   2463    28114   32907   3798    4254
Debt as %of Debt.Iquity        87       88      90      89      89      88      88       66      84      83      84      84      84      as      85       85
Equiltyss %of Debt+fquity      13       12      10      11      11      12       12      14      16      17      16      16      16       15      15      15



-83-
INDIA                                                     4.2
KARMATAKA Pa                                              Page 4 of 5
KARNTATA POMER aOBPUATION
Assuaptiau For Firnncalt Projections
...................................
Incomo Stat-ent
OGneration                    :   KPC8s Generation Forecast.
set" RenusJ                   :   Tariff fncreases assua d to satisfy the 57 Rato of Return (after interest) Covenant.
Other Rmue                    :         Income on KPC's Construction Equipment rentals etc., assusd as 2.5X
of Construction Program.
Fusl Cost                         Coal at RS 411/Toann  increasing by 15X ennually;Ol at Rs 3.39/Litre
incrasing by 107 anm.ally.
Operation & Maintenance       s    1.57 of gross f ixed assets in operation.
Establishmnt Expenses         :    15X annal inereases except In 1969/90 and 1993/%  when a 20X lncrease Is assused
OA to expected general wage increases.
Royalty on Generation         s   Payment to GOX for water used for electricity generation, currently at 4 paisa/kWh.
Deprecuiatin                  :   3X of ross fixed assets in operation.
salance Sheet
Cash                          :   2 months' cash operating expenses.
Inventories                  :   37 of gross fixed assun: In operation.
Accounts Recelvable           :   Forecast In months of sales as follows A
1966/87 - 4.0 ; 1987/88 - 2.0 ; 19688/9 and after    1.0.
Other Current Assets          s   57 inerease anwually.
Current Liabilities               Forecast at 307 of Current assets
Sources And Appications Of Funds Stataments
.            ....................... .
Investment Program           :   KPC's 10-year Investment program including interest during construction.
Debt Repayamnt               s   Tem of 20 years, including 5 years grace assuned for Sank loan and all tO7 loa w.



INDIA
KARNATAKA POUER PROJECT
KARMATAKA POWER CORPORATION
FORECAST INVESTIENT PROGRAM
(YEAR ENDING NARCH 31)
(In Current Re Nillion)
EST.  Expenditures  ................................. FORECAST ---------------------------------
GENERATION                    COST Upto Nar. 861986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96
Lingansmakki Dam Pomer House    127         119       3       3       1       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Sharavathi Rehabilitation       477           0      72      sr    108       71      74      67       0       0       0       0
Kalinadi Hydel - I             3393        3230      103     60       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Varahi Nydel - I                1961        1326    309    209      117       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Raichur Theral - I             3207        2964    243        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Ghataprabha Da Power House      317          21      43      93      88      45      27       0       0       0       0       0
Ralchur Thermal- II (Unit 3)  1941            0      143    329    468    438    335        228       0       0       0       0
XaLinadi Hydel- I              4392         242    402    433    615    698    797    641           484      79       0       0
Alamatti Dam Power Nouse        1493          0       5       9       5       0       0       0    206    306    477    486                      1
Sharavathi Tafl Race Project   2915           0       0       0    269    438    670    565    397    306    270              0                  Go
Gangavali Hydel -I              1423          0       1       1       2       3       0       0     147    306    477    486                    14
Nahadayi Hydet                  1385          0       0       0       0       0      ?0      28     147    306    397    486
Nangalore Nuttifuel            2912           0       0      11      12      19      27    141    323    611        795    973
Klinadi ydel Stage III         2652           0       0       0       0       0       0     141    294    611       795    811
Raicwur Thermal - II (Unit 4)  2648           0       0       0       0     100    295    382    514    535    477    34S
Varahi Nydel - I                777           0       0       0       0       0       0       0     147    382    248         0
Generation Mgmt. & Controt Eq    158          0       0       0       3      39      63      38      16       0       0       0
...             .   .  .   ...      ..     ..      ..  .   .  .    .......  ..... ..
Total Investtent        32180        7902    1324    1236   1689   1850   2307   2232   2675   3441    3S36   3588
~~=:===s=m    =====  t==    ==    =~u    _=    ==                         ==   ===Q =3
0e
Vn



INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
KARNATAKA ELECTRICITY BOARD
INCOWE STATEM4ENTS
(YEAV ENDING M4ARCH 31)
(In Rs Nillion)
. -- -- --..- -ACTUAL       . .-.-.....-.   (udget)  ----------------------------- FORECAST.-------------------------------
1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1966/8? 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96
Energy Avaitability (GVA)
KE8 Generation                  514    1116    431      396    422    405    412    360    354    349    345    345    345    345    345    345
Purcha    -* KPC               5316   5976   6533   6692   7285   6623   9176   10516   11843  1270   12787  13125   13540  13802   15101   15786
Purchases - Central Stations                                            831     890    982    1280   2070   2650   2790   2790   2877   3147   3420
Purchases  Inter-State          832    828    508    679    1192        989    900        0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0
Totat                       6662    7920   7910   8034   8899   8848   11378   11858   13477  15128  15782   16260  16675  17024   18593  19551
Sales of Electricity (GMdh)    5414   6193    6299   6475    7114   6990   8989   9486   10782   12254   12783  13171   13507  13789   15060   15836
Losses (%)                     18.7   21.8   20.4   19.4   20.1   21.0    21.0   20.0   20.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0
Ave.Tariff/kWh sold (Paisa)    27.1   31.1   32.0   34.2   41.2   49.0   49.0   56.4   59.1   62.9   69.1   75.3   85.1   93.9  103.5  116.2
Revenues
Sales of Electricity           1465    1926   2017   2215   2934   3428   4404   5346   6377   7708   8829   9917   11494   12953  15588   18403
Electricity Duty                 97     166    240    285    458    416    535    564           642    .79    761    784    804    820    896    942
RE Subsidy                       12       0      46       0       0      58      63      70      77      84      93    102    112    124    136    150
Other Revenues                   55      50      73     104     146    161      177    194    214    235    259    285    313    344           379    417
....... ....... .............. ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .. .... ....... ....... ....... ...... ....... .......
TotaL Revenues                 1629   2142   2376   2604   3538   4062    5179   6174    7309   8757   9941   11088  12723  14242  16998  19912
Expenses
Cost of Power Purchase          596    969    917   1301   1805   2092   2970   3284   4042   4971    5609   6281    7194    7840   9707  11431
Operation & Haintenanne         128      85    134    131    159        186    209    231       269    354    393    466    558    641    766    766             CD
Establishment Expenses          395    475    500    637    724    833    957   1101    1266    1520   1747   2010   2311   2773   3189   3668
Electricity Duty                 97     166    240    285    458    416    535    564    642            729    761    784    804    820    896    942
Depreciation                    102    108    123    135    152    176    186    209    231    269    354    393    466    558    641                  766
. ...... ....... ....... ....... ....... .............. ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .......
Total Expenes                  1318   1803   1914   2489   3298   3703    4857   5389   6450    7842   8864   9933  11333   12632   15199   17572
. .... ....... ....... ..... ....... ....... ....... ..... ....... ... .  .. .  ..... ......
Net Income before Interest      311     339    462      115    240    359    322    785    859    915    1077   1155   1391   1610    1800   2340
Interest                        152    161      177    204    253    400        739    831      938    1039   12Q8   1349   1566    1828   2048   2293
Less:Interest During Const.                                                     109    196    240    314    394    484    522    638    729    533
....... ....... ....... ....... .... ... ....... ... .... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .......
Income After Interest           159    178    285    .89         13    -41    3U9    152    161         190    264    289    346    420    481    580
Transfer to Special Reserve
....... ....... ....... ....... .............. ....... .............. ....... ....... ....... ............. . ....... .......
Net Income                      159    178    285    -89        -13      41    -309    152    161    190    264    289    346    420    481    580
=3=3=   333   :=33=8 =-S==   t=333  =====   3333=t  333=   333    =3=- =3=   33=3=   333    =3    3=3   =33===
Rate of Return 1/
- As per Covenant                    7.1   10.2   -2.8   -0.4   -1.0   -7.1    3.1    3.0            3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
- As per 8ank Guidelines            16.9   21.8    4.7    8.3   10.6    7.9   16.7   16.1   13.2   12.7   11.9   11.9   11.7   11.2   13.8
Average Tariff (Constant)(paisa/kIh)                                           47.6   51.4   50.5   50.3   51.6   53.3   57.9   61.5   65.1   70.3
...............................................................
1/ On Historically Valued llct Fixed Assets In Use.                                                                                                           lb
I0m
KDt
X-
.0
0.W
LP



INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
KARNTAKA ELECTRICITY WANRD
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FU1IS STATEMENSTS
(YEAR ENDING MARCH 31)
(In Rs MfIllion)
......... ..   CTUAL..........     (BUdgVet)    . ................FORECAST -----------------
1980/81 1981/82 1962/3 1983/84 1964/8  198/a6 1966/8  198/85 1968/89 1989/90 1990/91 199/92 1992/93 1m993/  1994/95 199/96
soureitisore
Income r  o.  perations          311     339      "61     115     240     359     322     785     859     915    1077    1155    1391    1610   1600   2340
Depreefation                     101      108     119     135     152     176      186     209     231     269     3S4     39      46      556    "41      766
TotatlInternml Sources           412     I4        8       5       9       3       0       9      109     1184    1431    158     16    216    240        305
Capitat Contributfons             17       23      22      24      35      42      s0      60       73      87     105     125     I5O     181     217     260
Staff Superauewatfon Fuaid        65      30       17      13      16      36      56      66       76      66      96     106     116     126     136     166
Security Deposfts                         67'      59      49      64      54      70      59       77      65      85      72      94      79    103       S7
Borrowings
Govt. of Kwmerntk  Lowm           93      122      82     483     850    2762    1336    110      948    1320    1638    1966    2177    2266   2758    2581
Other Borrowings                 104      176     253
Proposed Loan                                                                               12    159      365     346     322     250     185      63       10
Totat Borrowings                 197     298      335     483     850    2762    1336    1122    1107    1685    1964    228      2427    2451    2822    2591
Total Sources                    691     865    1013      819    1357    3429    2021    2301    2423    3107    3701    4138    4644    5004    5716    6189 
fl    ~~3332  33U3  U~~~~z    mm    =m   U~~~~S   =========   ~~~   m  ~~   um~~=muzuu          ~     c
Apptications
Investment Program
Proposed Project                                                                           64      171     370     467     536     584     501     486     265
Other Investments                464     587      590     694     950     847    1285    1339    1527    1577    1817    2052    2280    2532    2918    3042
Total Investment Porm464                 587'    590      694     950     847    1285    1403    1698    1947    2284    2588    2864    3033    3404    3307
Inter-Unit Acco~mt Balaces231                                      *2    .84    -345        0    -345        0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Debt Service
Interet                          152     161     177      204     253     400     631     633     696     725     813      865    1044    1169    1319    1760
Repayment                         83      134     102     139     292     285     246     24       236     259     460     529     532     5OS    667      609
Total Debt Service               25       95       79     33       45  65         677     877    93                27      34     176     17       96    2569
Change fn Vorikire Capftal
Cash                                                               20     1 74     95      42      67      113      78      86     III     101    207       187
Other than Cash                                                  -156    1808     109      *20     49       64      66      70      93      95      120     126
Net dw,gin WorkingCapfit&(         -8     -7      14      49    -136    1982      205      22      136     177     144     156     204     196    327      314
Total Applicatioms61                      6      1013     819    1357    3429    2021    2301    2423    3107    3701    4138   4644    5004   5716    6189          'x
Debt Service Coverge             1.8.    1.5      2.1     0.71    0.7     0.8     0.6      1.1     1.2     1.2     1.1     1.1     1.2     1.2     1.2      1.2 
InterrnmlCash nwwation (I)                50o     6       .32      .4    -170     -26      22      20       19      17      i5      19      22      24      2?       I



INDIA
KARNATMAK POER PROJCT
KARNSATAKA ELECTRtICITY BOARD
BALANC SHEETS
(AS ON NACU 31)
(In Rs Mitifon)
------ --- ACTUA      UAL-------  (Budget)  -.................FO                            R ECT-------------------
Assets                        1980/81 1981/82 1982/U3 1983/64 1964/85 1I8/86 1986/8? 1987188 1988/89 1989/90 1990/9  1991/92 199Z/93 199/94 1994/95 199/96
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets               3500    3929    442?    4985    5566    6199    6964      7696    8974   1179    13101   15520   18599   21352   25519   25519
Less:Acc. Deprciation             918    1026    1145    1279    1428    1604    179       1999    2230    2499    2853    3246    3712    4270    4910    56716
Net Fixed Assets                 252     2903    3282    3706    4138    4594    5174    5697    6743    9293   10248   12274   14887   17082   208 19843
Capital Workcs-in-Progress       1254    1412    1504    1781    2078    2313    2832    3503    3923    3051    4026    4196    3981    4261    3499    6806
Total Fixed Assets               386     4315    4786    547      616    6907    80        9199   10666   12344   14274   16469   18868   21343   24107   26648
Investment &Intwngibtes            21      21      21       21      21       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0
Inter-Unit Account Balances       439     510     545     776      774     690     345      345       0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0
Current Assets
Cash                              159     201     132      100     120     294      389     432     518     631      709     795     906    1006    1213    1401
Inventories                        35      39      44       47'     34      62       710     77      90     118      131     155     186     214     255      256
Electricity Debtors               214     298     567      808    1112    1143    1035      594     709     856      981    1102    1277    1439    1732    2045
OtherCurrent Assets               287     327     345      272     341     382      428     479     537     601      673     754     844     946    1059    1186
Totat Current Assets              65      85     1088    122      1607    1880    1922    1582    1853    2206    2494    2806    3213    3605    4259    48
Totat Assets                     499     51 1    64.40   71511    8618    9477'  10273   11126   12520   14550   16768   19275   22081   24948   2~36    31535 
Equity & Liabilities
Equity
Capitat ContrIbutions              84     107      129     153     1se     230      280     341     413     501      605     730     Sa1    1062    1278    1538
General Reserves £ Surplus        652     830    1115    1026    1013      972      664     816     976    1166    1430    1719    2066    2486    2966    3546
Special Reserve
Totat Equity                      76      937    1244    1179    1201    1202       944    1157    1390    1667    2035    24S0    2947    3547    4245    5085
Long Toer  Debt (LTD)            2228    2391    2624    3110    3599    6076    7166    8044    8915   10341   11866   13624   15520   17385   19540   21322
Staff Supe.ruanmtion Fund         176     206     223      236     252     288      344     410     486     572      668     774     890    1016    1152    1298
Security Deposits                 302     369     428      477     541     595      665     725     802     867      952    1024    1118    1197    1300    138?
Current Liabilities              1549    1808    1921    2509    3025    1316    1153       791     927    1103    1247    1403    1607    1802    2130    2443
Total Equity & Liabilities       491     S711    6440    7511    8618    9477   10273   11126   12520   14550   16768   19275   22081   24948   28366   31535
Debtassl of (Debt*Equity)          75      72       68      73      75      83       88      87      87       86      85      85      84       83      82      81
Equity as Xof (Debt+Equity)        25      28      32       27      25       17      12      13      13      14       1s      15      16       17      18      19    1 
00 :
0*



-88-                                         Annex 4.3
INDIA                                       Pane  4of- 5
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
KARNATAKA ELECTRICITY SOAR
Assumptiors For Financial Projections
.....................................
Income Statement
Generation Avalable for Sale   :    Based on KPC'a Sales Forecast and Power Purchas   from Neighbouring States
and Central Stations.
Sales Reveue                     :   Tariff increases assumed to stisfy the 5X Rate of Return (after interest) Covenant.
Electricity Duty                 :    Collected on Behalf of COK. Assumed at an Average Rate of 7 Paisa/kUh on 85X
of Energy Sales since Rural Cooperatives, Publ ¢ And Street Lighting Consumers do
not pay this duty.
Rural Ilectrification Subsidy   :   Assumed to Increase by 10X1 each year.
Other Revewues                   :    Incea  from Building Rentals, Neter Rentals etc., assumed to Increase by
10  annually.
Cost of Pager Purchases          :   Based on KPC's Average Revenue/kW  and forecast prices for interstate/Central
Station Purchases.
Operation & N4intenance          :   37 of gross fixed assets in operation.
Establishment Expes              :    157 annual increases except in 1989/90 end 1993/94 when a 207 increase is assumed
due to expected general we Increases.
Depreciation                     :   3X of gross fixed assets in operation.
Balance Shoet
Cash                             :    I months' cash operating expenses.
Inventories                      :    17 of gross fixed assets in operation.
Accounts Receivablv              :    Forecast as follows:
1986/87 - 45 days sales plus Rs 546 million owed to KPC;
1987/88 and after - 45 days Sales.
Other Current Assets                  Increases by 12X annually.
Current Liabilities              :    Forecast as percentage of Current assets as follows:
1986/87 - 607 ; 1987/88 and after - 50%
Sources And Applications Of Funds Statements
............................................
Capital Contributions                 Increases by 20X anally.
Staff Supernnuation Fun          :    In 1986/87 increases by Rs 20 million; 1987/88 and after increases
as 10 million.
Security Deposits                :    tncroeses by 10X aenally.
Investment Pro0rem                    KEB's 10-year investment program including interest during construction.
Debt Repayment                        l tenm of 20 years, itluding 5 years' grace assumd for Sank loan and all GOK loans.



-89--
RHODA                                         Annex  4.3
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
KARNATAK(A ELECTRICITY BOARD                             Paze  5  of  .5
PROPOSO INVESTNMET PROGRM
(In Current Rs million)
am&  of Shem          Target Est.CoS¶985/86 1986/8? 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990191 1991/92 1992/95 1993/94 1994,OS 1995/96
400 KVY TASMISSION LIKES
TatagpW-Shiimqa                89/90  245.2      0.0      1.6    81.9   100.1    61.5     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
ShlsaopGaangalore              95/96  990.5      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   28.j   147.0   229.3  238.5  330.7   16.9
Kaiga-slrsi                    92/93  185.2      4.3     4.2      5.2    11.1    17.9    47.0    53.1i   42.4      0.0     0.0    0.0
SIrsi-D0evnegre                 92/93  408.8     4.3     4.2      5.2    20.8   38.6   112.7   121.4   101.6       0.0     0.0     0.0
Davwanaer*-PIeIawwangI          90191  583.8     5.3    51.6   106.4   1 71.2   179.8    70.5      1.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
00vanegerO4unirawlee       " 90/91  176.6        4.3    16.2    30.9    50. 1    50.2    24.9      0,0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
subtotal 400-kv trans, Lines                    17.3   77.8   229.7  353.3   347.8  283.5   321.5   373.3  238.5  330.7   16.9
220 KV TRASNSISSION LINES
Sharavathi-Talagume            88/80   14.1i    0.5      1.6      9.4     2.6     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Oavmnegere-Cewribidenur         87/88   98.3    11.2    74.4    12.7      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
NagJheri-HuRAl                 89/90   64.S      0.0     0.0      1.2     1.3   2nl.9   22.6    14.7       3.8     0.0     0.0     0.0
I(Mmly-KoLer                   89/90   45.2      1.0    13.2      1.2     1.3   28.6      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
NegjharI.KodaalIi              90/91   41.0      2.6     2.5     S.?    11.3    15.7    3.2       0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
sbiuoga."Myeor                 94/95   97.6      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.7     0.7    14.7    18.3   39.7   23.4        0.0
Link Lines to Nutli-iI station 92/93   12.3      0.0     0,0     0.0      0.0     0.7     3.5     7.3      0.8     0.0     0.0     0.0
LILO PeemyasIt-_~rpot          86/87    0.7      0.7     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
LILO Poeeem-"Oor               86/87    3.9      0.0     3.9     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    (%.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
L.1  BiIsbLiPIsr               89/90    4.7      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.6     4.1     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
LILO mnfaga-OangaIore          92/93    3.2      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     1.5      1.7     0.0     0.0     0.0
Kadre-Keridr(SC on DC towres) 93/94   26.4       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.7     0.7     S.9    15.3      3.8    0.0      0.0
Kedra.Kodaealli                90/91   39.7      2.6     Z.$     5.3    12.8    13.8      2.7     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
LILO0 Sharavathi-dubtl         93/94   12.8      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.7     1.4     1.5     7.6      1.6     0.0     0.0
LILO Peenya-Noody              95/96   17.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      1.9     5.0   10.1
RTPS-DIaLkho1d                 94/95  133.3      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.6     0.7     2.1    14.7    30.6    47.7   36.9       0.0
sheiahaw(Hyd).DIe(kheid        95/96    8.1      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.5     0.8     6.7
IH.bli-Belasum                 93/94   83.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     1.4    22.0    22.9   36.6       0.0     0.0
Sonsnolvallf-"ore It Mt.       96/97   35.4      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     1.7   33.7
Sharavati TRPN-Sheraveti G.Stn 93/94   21.3      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.7     1.5    18.3      0'8     0.0     0.0
LILO0 "II-1Beloaw              94/95   79.9      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     1.4     5.9    22.9    41.3      8.3     0.0
DIenUaloreCthermat)-Hassan     94/95  186.1    C..0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     4.    29.4    39.7    79.5   33.1        0.0
Mengalorc(th)-mangatore Rec.   93/94   19.7      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.7    15.3      3.7     0.0     0.0
matkheid-Nuwsiba               96/97   92.4      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    16.5    75.9
Other works for 9th Plan               75.9      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    75.9
Continuiain  Works             90/91  481.4   190.9   191.0   33.3    36.1    20.0    10.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
.. .     . .     . .     .. .   . . .    .. .     . .     ;  .   . . .       .       . .
Sub~toteL 220-kV Trans. Lines                  210.1  289.1    68.8   66.6   106.4   54.9   119.8   197.4   257.1   125.6   202.3
.~~~~~~..            ..      ..      ...     ...     ...     .    .      ..    ..
Subtotat Transmission LineS                    227.4  366.9  298.5   419.9  454.2  338.4   441.3   570.7  495.5  456.2   219.1
400 KV STATIONS
WU31  DVA 220/440KV RS-Sirsi   93/94  347.2      4.3     4.1      5.2    17.9    35.9    79.0    96.2    83.8    20.8      0.0     0.0
1U315MIA 440/220-Dsvangere     93/94  325.2      4.3     4.1     5.2    17.0   33.9    73.6    89.5    78.0    19.6        0.0     0.0
IxSOODIVA 400/220 RS-NlnanglVa  90/91  322.6     4.3    16.0   43.5    87.5   97.1    74.2        0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
1lc500I4VA 220/440 at Ta4egu.Me  95/96  405.6    0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     7.1    15.3    31.8   132.3   219.1
1xSDIA 400/220 Trf.-Metmsnga  95/96  366.1       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    15.3    31.8    82.7  236.3
.~~~~~~..            ..      ..      ..       ..      ..      ..      ..       ..
Subtotal 400-kV Sitectatfon                     13.0    24.2    53.9   122.3   167.0   226.8   192.8   192.4   103.9   214.9  455.5
220 KV STATIONS
2xIOCIVA 220/66 Trf. -Nalalli  88/89   86.1      9.3    23.8    33.4    19.5      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
2XIOODIVA 220/66 Trf.-Yethanks  95/96  154.1     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.7     1.4     1.5     4.6    31.8    49.6   64.6
2X100 DIVA 220/110 Trf.-Tiptur  92/93  112.6     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.7    10.6   57.3    44.0       0.0     0.0     0.0
2xIOOSIVA 220/66 Trf.-Kolar    95/96  125.7      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.7     1.4     1.5      1.5    12.1    62.8   45.7
2x100 DIVA 220/110 Trf.HubjI I'  92/93  129.0   0.0     0.0     0.6    10.0    26.8   40.3    44.1       7.2      0.0     0.0     0.0
2x100 DIVA 220/110 Trf.DIatkheid 95/96  137.9    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.7     1.4     1.5      1.5    31.8    41.3   59.7
2x100 DIVA 220/66 Trf .Hirniyur   88/89   76,1   8.5    20.9    29.3    17.3      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0
2X100 DIVA 22/66 Trf. L.R.S    93/94  125.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    14.7    45.9    63.6      0.8    0.0
2x100 DIvA 220/66 Trf .DIroe II 94/95  121.5     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.7     1.5    21.9    47.7    41.3      8.4
2x100 MIA 220/110 Trf.Karwer   94/95  102.8      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     1.5    12.2    22.3   33.1   33.7
2xct00 DVA 220/66 Tnf.         91/92   86.9    25.0    13.2      2.3      2.5     2.7    35.3     5.9     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0
2z100 DIVA 220/66 Trf.EJipuna   95/96  150.9     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     7.3    22.9    47.7   49.6   23.3
IxIO DIVA 220/33 Trf.Mentore  90/91   29.7       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    29.7      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
1X60 DIVA 220/66 Tnf.Oevengere  91/92   26.5     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    26.5     0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0
1lxO0 DIVA 220/110 Trf.Shahabod 92/93   32.5     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    32.4      0.0    0.0
ixICO DIA 220/66 trf.shimoga   92/93   31.2      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.o     0.0      0.0     0.0    31.2     0.0      0.0    0.0
Terminasl  ay                           82.0     1.2     6.2     7.6    40.6      4.0     0.0     0.0    11.0    11.4   29.8    0.0
Switching Station at Hassan    95/96   51.2      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     7.9   33.1   10.1
SwitChing statfon at Lingougar 91/92   37.I    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0      1.1    21.2    14.7     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0
220K  Station at Hluxiabe
with 2x100 DIVA, 220/;IOKV Ttf.         98.6     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      6.2    16.5   75.9
.~~~~~~~~~~~. ... ...                      ..      ..      ..       ..      ..
St.Rtotet 220-Li  Asihtations                   4.5    64?      7.3    6.0   37.2   142.0   177.8   203.9   314.9   357.9  321.3
Subtotal Substations                            57.5    8.3   172   182.3   20.3   36.9   370.7  39.3   418.8  572.9  77.8
Distribution                                   212.1'  253.7  269.9  305.1   377.8  426.1   482.8  522.0   5811.8  699.4  762.3
Rurat tlectrificatfon                           76.3   110.2   129.3  147.0   164.1   190.8  221.9  241.8  262.9  285.   341.4
Mon-Plan Works;                                272.5   355.0  379.1   403.6  432.0   565.3   587.9   611.4  635.9  661.3  674.3
Total I,vestrmnto                              8651176.0'  12,0,4.1  14'5'7.9  16'32".4  18'89".5  210'4.6' 23'42.2' 23'9'5.0  67.  27M3. 9
nun&#~a   Anung  aUSSO    RsU*U   use=#   "amS  =."    us Us



_90-                           Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
Internal Economic Rate of Return
1.        As described in Chapter 5, the proposed Project forms an integral
part of the expansion program for the Southern Region and, therefore,
cost-benefit analysis needs to be carried out on the program as a whole
rather than on the Project in isolation. A time-slice of the Southern
Region's investment program has, therefore, been analyzed. Capital cost,
incremental operation and maintenance, incremental fuel cost and benefit
streams for the Southern Region are shown in Table 1. Assumptions underlying
these figures are detailed below.
Capital Costs
2.        Anticipated capital expenditure on generation at financial prices
has been converted to economic prices by: (a) expressing the imported content
at cif prices; (b) valuing unskilled local labor at 0.75 of the market wage
rate; ane (c) applying the estimated standard conversion factor, 0.8, to
local costs. Transmission and distribution capital expenditures have been
estimated at 50% of generation expenditure.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
3.        Incremental annual operating and maintenance costs have been
estimated as the following percentages of capital value: thermal generating
plant 2.5%, hydroelectric 1.13%, and transmission and distribution 1.0%.
Fuel Costs
4.        Average fuel consumption of new coal-fired plant has been estimated
at 0.645 kg/kWh. The economic cost of coal at the pit head has been
estimated at Rs 164/ton. The economic cost of delivering coal to load center
stations has been estimated at Rs 0.54/ton mile.
Case 1. Benefits
5.        Case 1. benefits are based solely on incremental revenue at exist-
ing tariff levels. These allow for system losses which are assumed to remain
constant at 21% of net generation in the Southern Region. The average finan-
cial tariff in FY'85 was Rs 0.56/kWh. After allowing for (a) general infla-
tion of approximately 7% per year from FY'85 to date; and (b) a standard
conversion factor of 0.8, the corresponding average economic tariff at cur-
rent prices is Rs. 0.50/kWh.
Case 2. Benefits
6.        In Case 2, the benefits of incremental consumption include elements
of consumers' surplus for both industrial and agricultural consumers.
Surplus has been imputed at half of t}.e difference between the average tariff
for each category and the alternative costs of autogeneration for industrial
consumers and diesel pumping for agricultural.



-91-
Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 3
7.        The cost cf industrial autogeneration, at mid-PY'85 prices, has
been estimated as follows:
Purchase price (incl. installation)          Rs 4.300/kW
Life of set                                     15 years
Average utilization                               15%
Discount rate                                     12%
Operation and maintenance cost               Rs 215/kW per annum
Fuel and lubricant                           Rs 1.24/kWh
Average cost                                 Rs 1.88/kWh
The cost of electricity which would equate the cost of electrical
pumping with that of diesel is calculated at mid-FY'85 prices as follows:
Electric       Diesel
Motor/engine size                             5.0 HP          7.0 HP
Life Years                                   15.0            10.0
Investment Cost                              Rs. 4000        Rs. 10250
Cost of diesel/hr                               -            Rs. 4.82
Annual Costs
Annual Charges                               i.s. 526        Rs. 1668
0&M                                          Rs. 890         Rs. 2500
Electricity/diesel
(800 hrs/year)
Electricity costing
X /kWh                                       Rs. 2984 X      Rs. 3853
Total annual cost                            Rs. 1416 +      Rs. 8021
2984 X
Marginal cost of electricity                 X = (8021-1416)/2984
at which diesel and electricity                = Rs. 2.21/kWh
are equivalent
8.        Average industrial and agricultural financial tariffs during FY'85
in the Southern Region are estimated at Rs. 0.64/kWh and Rs. 0.20/kWh respec-
tively. After allowing for inflation between mid-FY'85 and end FY'86, the
average estimated willingness to pay, converted into economic terms at a
standard conversion factor of 0.8, is Re. 0.78/kWh for industrial and
Rs. 1,02/kWh for agricultural. Combining these with revenue estimates of
the benefits to other consumers gives an average benefit of Rs. 0.70/kWh in
economic terms.



-92-                                                   Annex 5.1
Tablc 1
SOUTHERN REGION INVESTHENT PROSRAN                                     Page  jof  3
ECONONIC RATE OF RETURN
IRs. fiillion)
Fin.            Cap. Exp.    0 b II   Fuel Cap. Exp.   0 & P    Total            Incr.  Net I    Net 2
Year                  Gen.      Sen.    Cast       T & D   T & D    Cost         Sales Benefit  Benefit
1987                  182         0         0        91         0       273         0      -273      -273
1988                  628         0         0       314         2       944         0      -944      -944
1989                 2413         1         0      1207         B      3629         0    -3629    -3629
1990                 4502         1         0      2251        32      6786         0    -6786    -6786
1991                 5970        18         0      2985        77      9050       208    -8955    -8865
1992                 7772        65        86      3886       137    11946       1252   -11372   -10835
1993                 6875       158       220      3438       215    10906       2206    -9895    -8948
1994                 4120       467       447      2060       284      7378      4636    -5254    -3264
1995                 2133       707       847      1067       325      5079      8162    -1339       2164
1996                  935       801      1260       468       346      3890    11783       1590      6647
1997                    0       801      1260         0       355      24.6    11783       2984     8041
1998                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984      8041
1999                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984     8041
2000                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984      8041
2001                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984      8041
2002                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984      8041
2003                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11793       2984      8041
2004                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984     8041
2005                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984      8041
2006                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984      8041
2007                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984     8041
2008                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984      8041
2009                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    li?83       2984     8041
2010                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984     8041
2011                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984     8041
2012                    0       801      1260         0       355       116    11783       2984     8041
2013                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984     8041
2014                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783      2984      8041
2015                    0       801      1260         u       355     2416    11783        2984     8041
2016                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783      2984      8041
2017                    0       801      1260         0       355     2416    11783       2984      8041
2018                    0       801      i260         0       355     2416    11783       2984      8041
2019                    0       801      1260         0       355     2416    11783       2984      8041
2020                    0       801      1260         0       355     2416    11783       2984      8041
2021                    0       801      1260         0       355     2416    11783       2984      8041
2022                    0       801      1260         0       355     2416    11783       2984      8041
2023                    0       801      1260         0       355     2416    11783       2984      8041
2024                    0       801      1260         0       355     2416    11783       2984      8041
2025                    0       801      1260         0       355     2416    11783       2984      8041
2026                    0       801      1260         0       355     2416    11783       2984      8041
2027                    0       801      1260         0       355     2416    11783       2984      8041
2028                    0       801      1260         0       355      2416    11783       2984     B041
ERR  =        4%       12%



Annex 6.1
-93-'
INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
Documents and Data available in Project Pile
1.  KPC Project Report
2. KEB Project Report
3.  Detailed P^oject Cost Estimates
4. Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948
5. Supporting Schedules for Financial Projections
6. KEB's Current Tariffs
7. Action Plan for Rehabilitation and Resettlement (November 1986 +
Supplement March 1987)
8. Compensatory Afforestation Plan
9.  Optimisation of Installed Capacity (Kodasalli and Kadra)
10. Environmental Assessment Report (Kodasalli and Kadra)
11. KPC Training Program



MAP SECTION



X \) c} L F:keX r.
Z> ;0,0
;:       e7 * >         C) / ,        I\        0
\~~    as  -t-* 



T Nend                 '               74.45  4ITo A J                                         r i  'reo  d
7             ~~~~~HaIiyaOI,
l~~~~~~~~                                    ~      ~ ~ ~~             ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '     '  a'°  \ i
"x  XAmbenadi                    ,                    KebrolliO"a\
,SUPA DAM ANdzkI, (I)     '
100 MW  (2WS0)      '.
DANDELl DAM AND PH. (11)                           i                             .
60 MW (2x30                                         ''
Dondeli
O '-<'   t            '   '               '                           /          W                               X,~~~~~~- 
I >   '  ' "';    2'  Kalgh
6 iommanothali \'A 
J BOMMANAHALLI        /       
0XuIgi                       (I
Q OPArii)                              '-.
-.*                             Hagtvatht ,  ;                                       / , }f 
TATTIHALLA (I) '
NAGJHARI P.H. (I)
PER (111)                                   810 MW (6x135)
INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
KALINADI HYDROELECTRIC SCHEME
oYellapura                                       DAM D POWERHOUSES:
/        Proposed, IBRD Project (Stoge 11)
A    Proposed (Other Stage 11 and Stage 111)
Existing (Stage I)
-;  0K&kasalli                                                                                              DOUBLE CIR,CUIT ,TR_NSMIQiO,4 -:N
-/-- }tYr  220 kV proposed, IBRD project
/ a ,"                                                                                 220 kV proposed
,'-        220 kV existing
1-         110 kV existing
"~  f  Proposed nuclear power station near Kaigo
Catchment Boundaries
Tunnels
Roads
0     Selected Towns
Rivers
-- --   State Boundary
----     Southern Electricity Region Boundary
International Boundories
T Aob.e                                                   744s5
MAY 1



-f                             ~~~~~~~)E
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 N  IA 
INDIA
KARNATAKA POWER PROJECT
GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION COMPONENTS                                                 20'
loRD PRMW.1T   "ROPOED  UNDIR COHST.   pmslNo
-      Hydro Power Saions
o     Thnmal Power Statiom
Nucler Power Station                 19'r
49                  9~~0      Substatons                                              KRAAC
TRANSJSS1ON UNES,
-    400 kV
___   ~~~~~~220 kVI                                                         i
110 kV
-'--    Double Circuit LUnes         J .                                    AK
Rersr
State Boundaries 
SkXb 801mdOs              5             BkW 9  n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fl'aws rwp  as *tW&"A prd  V* IrTbcl  Of Th ssla  a&* fr, Dwe xr d 
Soutem Electricity Refon Boundary                                   coeto  T o       l ad e bo;vS V  ,. ,, d _  
Inernational Boundaries       fI\J                      joa s  c    ta                    *tf dn bcoanet
MAHARASHTRA                                                                                               0         t    Po I?     00
Afzctpw   ~ ~ ~ ~~~1                               IMOME11ER
1?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
tro Kofm      ,     Athnti         eqpL                                                                                               17 -
To Nydwuad-S-t7C
OQAL*                                                                                                          AN\DHRAer N no5wrC
\  fChitodl Hidk I j_    JamP KlAwESH
~~~~~orkt\I   ^oI//
A1   1 S                                           /tTY um,                   $
GOA t  d/                        /.--<-^awp                                         ~~~ANDHRA
-~ I4 I                                                                                                              PRADESH



GOA}    \¢                            X                           /<    >                                               ANDHRA
To Patd   \     r-b g ~ lc r Aawoi  I    P                R               iD wS 
P RAD ESHi-
.ds-i           To Goo       ,
0~~~~~~~~~
m  ~~ W  I / \                                   / / a
9 @°is    |      \                      /       Don^W   f  >nc2
U,9 SKowtHAw
\lL -3                                                                                              /t 
Co xk/                                                         l
b"
Stkp45get\*'                                                                  S
wHirbdka ~    ~     ER LA \\ <*biJnWi,\                          
2M~~~~~~~~I_hX</5 
1      NI R  ,{MiWri\\                                  ueere\   Ybillla   /_ Kt 
m~~07ecd                                                  2                  
zl"°  'i'  



