Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2827 IN
                     (Karnataka Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
                      Dated December 21, 1987
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  December  21,  1987,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and KARNATAKA
POWER CORPORATION LIMITED (the Corporation), a company established
under the Companies Act, 1956, of the Borrower.
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between India, acting  by  its  President  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to three hundred thirty
million dollars ($330,000,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in  the  Loan  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that the
Corporation agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  for the purposes of carrying  out  Parts  A and B of the
Project,  the  Borrower  will  make  available  to  the  State  of
Karnataka (Karnataka) an amount  equivalent to $329,000,000 out of
the proceeds of the Loan as provided for the Loan Agreement;
     (C)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between Karnataka and the Corporation, part of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the  Loan Agreement will be made available
by Karnataka to the  Corporation  on  the terms and conditions set
Page  2
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS  the  Corporation,  in  consideration  of  the Bank's
entering  into  the  Loan  Agreement  with  the  Borrower  and the
Karnataka Agreement with  Karnataka,  has  agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) The  Corporation declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project  as  set  forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this  end,  shall  carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,  engineering  and  public
utility practices, and  shall  provide,  or  cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except  as  the Bank and the Corporation shall
otherwise agree, the Corporation  shall  carry  out  Part A of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Procedures set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Karnataka
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Corporation shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement and Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  The  Corporation  shall  duly  perform all its
obligations under the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except as the
Bank shall otherwise  agree,  the  Corporation  shall  not take or
concur in any  action  which  would  have  the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) The  Corporation  shall,  at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the  Bank with regard to progress of
the  Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations  under  this
Agreement and  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  The Corporation shall  promptly  inform  the Bank of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the  Project,  the  accomplishment  of the purposes of
Loan, or the  performance  by  the  Corporation of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
           Management and Operations of the Corporation
Page  3
     Section 3.01. The Corporation  shall  carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs  in  accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering  and  public  utility  practices  under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. The Corporation shall  at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery,  equipment  and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
     Section 3.03. The  Corporation  shall  take  out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Corporation shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Corporation shall:
        (i)    have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and related  statements)  for  each  financial year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
       (ii)    furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than  seven months after the end
               of each  such  year,  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
      (iii)    furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a)  The  Corporation  shall  take from time to
time  all  such  measures  as   may  be  necessary  including,  if
necessary, adjustment of tariffs of the Corporation to ensure that
the total revenues  in  any  financial  year shall, after meeting:
(i)  all  expenses  properly  chargeable  to  revenues,  including
operating  maintenance  and  management  expenses;  (ii)  taxes on
income and profits; (iii)  depreciation; and (iv) interest payable
on all debentures, bonds and loans; produce such surplus as is not
less than 3% of the net fixed assets of the Corporation in service
at the beginning of such year.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
        (i)   "total revenues" means  revenues  of the Corporation
              from the  sale  of  electricity  and other services,
              miscellaneous income, and  such other subventions as
              shall be  made  in  respect  of  extraordinary costs
              which are borne by  the Corporation and which should
              not  reasonably  be   borne   by  customers  of  the
              Corporation;
       (ii)   "expenses" means the cost  of power purchased, fuel,
              operating, maintenance,  management  and administra-
              tive expenses,  and  all  taxes  and duties accruing
Page  4
              during  the  financial  year,  other  than  taxes on
              income and profits of the Corporation;
      (iii)   "taxes on  income  and  profits"  consists of income
              taxes and other  levies  accrued  by the Corporation
              according to the  provisions  of  any legislation or
              regulation applicable in this respect;
       (iv)   "depreciation" means a  provision derived in accord-
              ance with  the  straight-line  method  based  on the
              useful life  of  assets  as  stipulated  in the Bor-
              rower's notification  G.S.R.  244(E)-F  No. 25(9)82-
              D(SEB)  dated  March  31,  1985,  issued  under  the
              provisions of Section 68 of the Electricity (Supply)
              Act 1948, of the Borrower,  based on the gross value
              of the Corporation's fixed  assets in service at the
              beginning of each year;
        (v)   "interest  payable  on  all  debentures,  bonds  and
              loans" means all interest, excluding interest during
              construction, accrued by  the Corporation during the
              financial year and all other charges on debt; and
       (vi)   "net fixed  assets  of  the  Corporation in service"
              means the original  cost  of  such  fixed assets, as
              reduced  by   the   aggregate   of   the  cumulative
              depreciation in respect of such assets.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of the Corporation thereunder  shall  terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement  shall  terminate  in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Corporation thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
Page  5
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For the Corporation:
          Karnataka Power Corporation Limited
          Bangalore
          Karnataka, India
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               KPC                             0845-687
               Bangalore
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Corporation may be taken or executed by
its Chairman or such  other  person  or persons as the Corporation
shall designate in writing,  and  the Corporation shall furnish to
the  Bank   sufficient   evidence   of   the   authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ B. Alisbah
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    KARNATAKA POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
                    By /s/ N. Misra
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                     Implementation Procedures
1.   The Corporation shall furnish to the Bank by December 31 each
year a report  of  the  Corporation's  forecast of operational and
financial performance for  the  ensuing  financial year specifying
the actions  that  will  be  taken  to  ensure  fulfillment of the
requirements of Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
2.   The Corporation shall: (a)  review  with its Panel of Experts
the results of the  investigations  of  the limestone formation at
Kodasalli; (b) prepare a report, recommending treatment should any
be necessary, for said formation;  and  (c) furnish said report to
the Bank by November 30, 1987.
3.   The Corporation shall by  December  31, 1987, ensure that its
internal Audit  Unit  is  adequately  staffed  and  that said Unit
report directly  to  the  Corporation's  Finance  Director  or the
Page  6
Managing Director.
