Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2827 IN
                     (Karnataka Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                        STATE OF KARNATAKA
                      Dated December 21, 1987
                        KARNATAKA AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  December  21,  1987,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and STATE OF
KARNATAKA, acting by its Governor (Karnataka).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between India, acting  by  its  President  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to three hundred thirty
million dollars ($330,000,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement,  but only on condition that Karnataka
agree to undertake such  obligations  toward  the  Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  Parts A and B of the  Project will be carried out by the
Karnataka Power  Corporation  Limited  (the  Corporation)  and the
Karnataka Electricity Board  (the  Board),  respectively, with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, part of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available to Karnataka by  the  Borrower for relending to the
Corporation and the Board; and
     WHEREAS Karnataka, in  consideration  of  the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
Page  2
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a)  Karnataka  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  cause  the Board to carry out
Part B of the  Project  with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices,  and  shall  provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as  the Bank and Karnataka shall other-
wise agree, Karnataka shall  cause  Part  B  of  the Project to be
carried out in accordance  with  the Implementation Procedures set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under this  Agreement, Karnataka shall cause the
Corporation to perform in  accordance  with  the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the  obligations  of the Corporation therein
set forth, shall take or cause  to be taken all actions, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services, and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Corporation to perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     Section 2.02. (a) Karnataka shall relend an amount equivalent
to $197,000,000 to the Corporation out of the proceeds of the Loan
made available by the  Borrower  to  Karnataka, under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between Karnataka and the Corpo-
ration  under terms and  conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank which shall,  except  as the Bank may otherwise agree,
include interest at a rate  of  not  less than 10.75% per annum on
the principal amount so  relent  and  withdrawn by the Corporation
and outstanding from time to time,  and repayment over a period of
twenty years, including therein a period of grace of five years.
     (b)  Karnataka shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the interests of
Karnataka and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Karnataka shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     (c)  Karnataka  shall   relend   an   amount   equivalent  to
$132,000,000 to the Board  out  of  the  proceeds of the Loan made
available by the Borrower to  Karnataka under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall, except as
the Bank may otherwise agree,  include  interest  at a rate of not
less than 10.75% per annum  on  the principal amount so relent and
withdrawn by the  Board  and  outstanding  from  time to time, and
repayment over  a  period  of  twenty  years,  including therein a
period of grace of five years.
     Section 2.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
Page  3
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  Karnataka  shall  carry  out  or  caused to be
carried out the  obligations  set  forth  in  Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09  of  the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Karnataka Agreement and Part B of the Project.
     Section 2.05. Karnataka  shall  duly  perform all its obliga-
tions under the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Karnataka shall  not  take or concur in any
action  which  would  have  the  effect  of  amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a)  Karnataka  shall,  at  the  request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank  with regard to progress of the
Project, the performance of  its obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  Karnataka shall promptly inform  the  Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of Part B of the  Project,  the  accomplishment of the purposes of
Loan, or the  performance  by  Karnataka  of its obligations under
this Agreement.
     Section 2.07. Karnataka shall implement or cause to be imple-
mented the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Plan in accordance with
the  principles  and  objectives  and  institutional  arrangements
agreed with the Bank.
                            ARTICLE III
              Management and Operations of the Board
     Section 3.01. Karnataka shall  cause  the Board to: (i) carry
on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial engineering and public utility practices
under the  supervision  of  qualified  and  experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; (ii) at all times
operate and maintain  its  plant,  machinery,  equipment and other
property, and from  time  to  time,  promptly  as needed, make all
necessary repairs and  renewals  thereof,  all  in accordance with
sound engineering,  financial  and  public  utility practices; and
(iii) take out  and  maintain  with  responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory  to  the  Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts  as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. Karnataka shall cause the Board to:
     (a)  maintain records  and  accounts  adequate  to reflect in
accordance with  sound  accounting  practices  its  operations and
financial condition;
     (b)  have  its  records,  accounts  and  financial statements
(balance sheets, statements  of  income  and  expenses and related
statements) for each  financial  year  audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently   applied,   by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (c)  commencing financial year  1987/88,  furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in  any  case not later than nine months
after the end  of  each  such  year,  (i)  certified copies of its
Page  4
financial statements for  such  year  as  so  audited and (ii) the
report of such audit by  said  auditors  of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
     (d)  furnish to the  Bank  such  other information concerning
said records, accounts  and  financial  statements  as well as the
audit thereof, as  the  Bank  shall  from  time to time reasonably
request.
     Section 4.02.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, Karnataka shall cause the Board to
furnish the audited accounts,  together with the auditor's report,
to the Bank,  in  respect  of  the  Board's accounts for financial
years 1985/86 and 1986/87, by December 31, 1987.
     Section 4.03. (a)  Karnataka  shall  cause  the Board to take
from time to time all such measures as may be necessary including,
if necessary, adjustment of  tariffs  of  the Board to ensure that
the total revenues  in  any  financial  year shall, after meeting:
(i)  all  expenses  properly  chargeable  to  revenues,  including
operating  maintenance  and  management  expenses;  (ii)  taxes on
income and profits; (iii)  depreciation; and (iv) interest payable
on all debentures, bonds and loans; produce such surplus as is not
less than 3% of the net  fixed  assets  of the Board in service at
the beginning of such year.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
        (i)   "total revenues" means  revenues  of  the Board from
              the sale of electricity  and other services, miscel-
              laneous  income,   rural  electrification  subsidies
              received from  Karnataka,  state  electricity duties
              received, and  such  other  subventions  as shall be
              made in  respect  of  extraordinary  costs which are
              borne by the Board  and  which should not reasonably
              be borne by customers of the Board;
       (ii)   "expenses" means the cost  of power purchased, fuel,
              operating, maintenance,  management  and administra-
              tive expenses,  and  all  taxes  and duties accruing
              during  the  financial  year,  other  than  taxes on
              income and profits of the Board;
      (iii)   "taxes on  income  and  profits"  consists of income
              taxes and other levies  accrued by the Board accord-
              ing to the provisions  of any legislation or regula-
              tion applicable in this respect;
       (iv)   "depreciation" means a  provision derived in accord-
              ance with  the  straight-line  method  based  on the
              useful life  of  assets  as  stipulated  in the Bor-
              rower's notification  G.S.R.  244(E)-F  No. 25(9)82-
              D(SEB) dated March 31,  1985,  issued under the pro-
              visions of Section  68  of  the Electricity (Supply)
              Act 1948, of the Borrower,  based on the gross value
              of the Board's fixed assets in service at the begin-
              ning of each year;
        (v)   "interest  payable  on  all  debentures,  bonds  and
              loans" means all interest, excluding interest during
              construction,  accrued  by   the  Board  during  the
              financial year and all other charges on debt; and
       (vi)   "net fixed assets  of  the  Board in service" means:
              (A) the  original  cost  of  such  fixed  assets, as
              reduced  by   the   aggregate   of   the  cumulative
              depreciation in respect  of  such  assets, less, and
              (B) consumers' contribution  for service lines, also
              reduced  by   the   aggregate   of   the  cumulative
              depreciation  in  respect  of  such  portion  of the
              service  lines  as  has  been  financed  by consumer
Page  5
              contributions.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of Karnataka thereunder shall  terminate  on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall  terminate  in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly notify Karnataka thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Karnataka:
          Secretary to the Government
            of Karnataka
          Department of Power
          Bangalore
          Karnataka, India
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               POWER                           953-845239
               Bangalore
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of  Karnataka  may  be  taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of  Karnataka  or such other person or
persons as Karnataka  shall  designate  in  writing, and Karnataka
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Page  6
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ B. Alisbah
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    STATE OF KARNATAKA
                    By /s/ N. Misra
                                        Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  a  margin  of preference to domestic
contractors may be granted in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and para-
graph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All contracts for civil  works and equipment for resettlement
and afforestation, may be procured  under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   All contracts for  survey  and computing facilities estimated
to cost less than the equivalent  of $750,000 in the aggregate may
be procured under contracts awarded  on the basis of comparison of
Page  7
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:   Procurement without Contracting
     Works for land clearance, land development, soil conservation
and afforestation may procured through force account.
Part F:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works and equip-
ment estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 and $1,000,000
or more, respectively, the  procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished  to  the  Bank  prior  to the making of the
first payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  in  respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.02 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In  order  to  assist  the  Corporation,  the  Board  and the
Authority  in  carrying   out   the   Project,  consultants  whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  shall  be  employed.  Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures  satisfactory  to  the   Bank   on  the  basis  of  the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                     Implementation Procedures
1.   Karnataka undertakes that all loans made or to be made to the
Corporation and the Board after April 1, 1987 shall include repay-
ment terms  of  20  years,  including  therein  a  grace period of
5 years.
2.   Karnataka shall cause the Board to:
     (a)  clear the Board's arrears  due  to the Corporation as of
March 31, 1987 in  accordance  with  an action program paralleling
Page  8
the reduction in the Board's accounts receivable;
     (b)  open a revolving letter  of  credit beginning October 1,
1987 in favor of the  Corporation  for an amount equivalent to one
month's estimated purchases by the Board from the Corporation; and
     (c)  clear any sums owed by  the Board to the Corporation for
sales after April 1, 1987 and  not covered by the letter of credit
referred to in  (b)  above,  within  30  days  of  the date of the
invoice.
3.   Karnataka shall cause the  Board  to  furnish  to the Bank by
December 31 each year a  report  of the Board's forecast of opera-
tional and financial  performance  for  the ensuing financial year
specifying the actions that will be taken to ensure fulfillment of
the requirements of Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
4.   Karnataka shall cause the Board to:
     (a)  clear its accounts receivable as of March 31, 1987, from
its principal  debtors  by  April  1,  1990  in  accordance with a
monitorable action program satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (b)  maintain its accounts  receivable  with respect to sales
after March 31,  1987,  at  no  more  than  the  equivalent of the
preceding two months' sales.
5.   Karnataka shall  cause  the  Board,  by  March  31,  1989 to:
(i) provide meters  for  all  connections (except for agricultural
consumers with irrigation  pumps  of  10  H.P.  or less); and (ii)
reduce and maintain  thereafter,  the  number  of faulty meters to
1 1/2% of the total  number  of metered connections, in accordance
with a monitorable action program satisfactory to the Bank.
6.   Karnataka shall cause the Board to:
     (a)  write off the book value  of the Hirebhaskar Dam and the
outstanding  amounts  in  the  Stock  Incidental  Account  in  its
accounts for 1985/86; and
     (b)  by March 31,  1988,  clear,  by properly capitalizing or
expensing, the outstanding amounts in its Inter-Unit Account.
