Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2827 IN
                     (Karnataka Power Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 21, 1987
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 21,  1987, between INDIA, acting by
its  President   (the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Part A  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by the
Karnataka Power  Corporation  Limited  (the  Corporation) with the
Borrower's assistance;
     (C)  Part B of the Project  will  be carried out by the State
of Karnataka (Karnataka)  through  the Karnataka State Electricity
Board (the Board) with the Borrower's assistance;
     (D)  Part C of the Project  will  be  carried out by the Bor-
rower through the Central Electricity Authority (the Authority);
     (E)  For the purposes of carrying  out  Parts  A and B of the
Project, as part of  the  Borrower's assistance, the Borrower will
make available to Karnataka  funds  equivalent to $329,000,000 out
of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in  this  Agreement, in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and the Corporation, and in
the Karnataka Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
Karnataka.
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in   the   General  Conditions  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Karnataka" means the  State  of  Karnataka,  a State of
India;
     (b)  "Karnataka Agreement"  means  the  agreement between the
Bank and Karnataka  of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Corporation"  means  the  Karnataka  Power  Corporation
Limited, a company registered  under  the  Companies Act, 1956, of
the Borrower;
     (d)  "Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the Bank
and the Corporation of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (e)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between  Karnataka  and  the  Corporation pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of the  Karnataka  Agreement,  as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (f)  "Board"   means   the    Karnataka   Electricity   Board
established under  the  provisions  of  the Borrower's Electricity
(Supply) Act, 1948, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (g)  "Kalinadi Complex" means  the  existing and future power
generation facilities in the Kalinadi Basin;
     (h)  "Authority"  means  the  Central  Electricity  Authority
established under the Borrower's Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948;
     (i)  "Oustee" means any  person,  whether landed or landless,
who would be displaced from  his usual habitat or whose livelihood
would be substantially affected due to the acquisition of land for
the purposes of the carrying out of the Project;
     (j)  "Rehabilitation and  Resettlement  Plan"  means the Plan
dated November 1986 supplemented by  the note dated March 1987 and
furnished by  Karnataka  to  the  Bank  for  the rehabilitation of
Oustees; and
     (k)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                             The Loan
     Section 2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in various  currencies equivalent to three hundred
thirty million dollars ($330,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan and in  respect of interest and other charges
on the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain  in  Dollars  a  special  account in the Reserve
Bank of India on  terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments  out  of  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The  Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1995
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
        (i)    "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
       (ii)    "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
      (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the Project
Page  4
through the Authority  with  due  diligence  and efficiency and in
conformity with  appropriate  administrative  and  financial prac-
tices, and shall provide,  promptly  as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under  the  Loan  Agreement,  the Borrower shall
cause Karnataka to perform  in  accordance  with the provisions of
the Karnataka Agreement all  the  obligations of Karnataka therein
set forth, shall take or  cause  to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds,  facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Karnataka to perform such obli-
gations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall   make   an  amount  equivalent  to
$329,000,000  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  available  to
Karnataka in accordance with  the Borrower's standard arrangements
for developmental assistance to the States of India.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Karnataka
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and  land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect of
Part A of the Project shall be carried out or caused to be carried
out by the Corporation  pursuant  to  Section  2.03 of the Project
Agreement, and in  respect  of  Part  B  of  the Project, shall be
carried out or caused to  be  carried out by Karnataka pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Karnataka Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project of the Authority.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)    have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  for  each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
       (ii)    furnish to the Bank,  as  soon as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year,  a  certified copy of the report
               of such audit by  said  auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail  as  the  Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
      (iii)    furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning  said  records,   accounts  and  the  audit
               thereof as the Bank  shall  from  time to time rea-
               sonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
Page  5
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
       (ii)    ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
      (iii)    enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)    have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) (i) of this  Section for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
       (ii)    furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than  seven months in respect of
               withdrawals for the Corporation  and nine months in
               respect  of  withdrawals   for  the  Authority  and
               Karnataka, after  the  end  of  each  such year the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in  such  detail  as  the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested, including  a separate opinion
               by said auditors  as  to  whether the statements of
               expenditure  submitted  during  such  fiscal  year,
               together with the  procedures and internal controls
               involved in their  preparation,  can be relied upon
               to support the related withdrawals; and
      (iii)    furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall have the Special Account for
each financial year audited  in accordance with appropriate audit-
ing  principles,  consistently  applied  by  independent  auditors
acceptable to the Bank and furnish  to  the Bank as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not  later  than six months after the end of
each year the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Karnataka  or  the  Corporation  shall  have  failed  to
perform any  of  its  respective  obligations  under the Karnataka
Agreement or the Project Agreement.
     (b)  The Board is unable  to  obtain  by October 31, 1988 the
clearance  under  the  Forest  (Conservation)  Act,  1980,  of the
Borrower for the  purposes  of  construction of transmission lines
running through forests under the Project.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  Karnataka  or the
Corporation will be  able  to  perform  its respective obligations
under the Karnataka Agreement or the Project Agreement.
     (d)  A change shall  have  been  made  in  the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the  Corporation amended to the date of
this Agreement,  without  the  consent  of  the  Bank, which would
Page  6
materially and adversely affect the financial conditions or opera-
tions of the Corporation.
     (e)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Board or the  Corporation or for the suspension of its
operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraphs  (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice  thereof  shall  have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (d)  and  (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following  event  is  specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning  of  Section  12.01  (c)  of  the  General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has been executed on
behalf of Karnataka and the Corporation.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Karnataka Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Karnataka  and  is  legally  binding upon Karnataka in
accordance with its terms.
     (b)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by  the  Corporation,  and  is  legally  binding upon the
Corporation in accordance with its terms; and
     (c)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified  by  Karnataka  and  the Corporation and is
legally binding upon Karnataka  and  the Corporation in accordance
with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date 90 days  after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the  purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  Any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary  or  Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in  the  Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  7
               ECOFAIRS                          953-313546
               New Delhi
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64l45 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ N. Misra
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ B. Alisbah
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                37,000,000     70%
(2)  Equipment                 247,000,000     100% of foreign
     and                                       expenditures and
     materials                                 100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost)
(3)  Resettlement                3,600,000     100%
(4)  Afforestation               3,000,000     50%
(5)  Consultants'                7,600,000     100%
Page  8
     services and
     training
(6)  Unallocated                31,800,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                330,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount  not  exceeding  the equivalent of $5,000,000,
may be made on  account  of  payments made for expenditures before
that date but after June 1, 1986.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to: (i) develop low cost
hydro resources to meet  power  shortages  in the Southern Region;
(ii) optimize generation in,  and  provide efficient evacuation of
power  from,  the  Kalinadi   Complex;   and  (iii)  renovate  the
Sharavathi Power Station.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   The Corporation
        (i)   the construction of  a  3  x  40  MW hydro scheme at
              Kodasalli;
       (ii)   the construction of  a  3  x  50  MW hydro scheme at
              Kadra;
      (iii)   the  resettlement,  rehabilitation  and compensatory
              afforestation measures associated  with (i) and (ii)
              above;
       (iv)   the  renovation  of  the  existing  Sharavathi Power
              Station involving, inter alia, replacement of stator
              coils, excitation systems and instruments;
        (v)   the  implementation  of  a  computerized  generation
              management   scheme   for   the   Kalinadi  Complex,
              including installation of  'System  Control and Data
              Acquisition'   (SCADA)   equipment   and  associated
              communications;
       (vi)   the computerization  of  management  information and
              accounting systems  and  certain planning activities
              in the Corporation;
      (vii)   the execution of a training program for the Corpora-
              tion; and
     (viii)   the utilization of  consultancy  services for Part A
Page  9
              (i) through Part  A  (vii)  of  the  Project and for
              developing a program  of  treatment for the Talakale
              dam.
Part B:   The Board
     (a)  The construction of about  570  kms of single and double
circuit 400-kV line and about 300 kms of single and double circuit
220-kV line together with associated substations.
     (b)  Utilization of consultancy services for:
        (i)   the design  and  construction  supervision of 400-kV
              lines and substations;
       (ii)   preparation of a  distribution  master  plan for the
              city of Bangalore followed by supervisory assistance
              for further distribution planning by the Board; and
      (iii)   advice on  protection  and  compensation  aspects of
              transmission.
     (c)  The  implementation  of   an  institutional  development
program for the  Board,  including  acquisition of data processing
facilities, consultancy and training services for:
        (i)   development of  a  system  for maintaining technical
              records;
       (ii)   establishment of proper fixed asset registers;
      (iii)   establishment of a management information system;
       (iv)   an organization and management study for the finance
              function;
        (v)   computerization of  certain  activities in planning,
              operational  statistics,  accounting  and  inventory
              control; and
       (vi)   a tariff and metering study.
Part C:   The Authority
     Utilization of consultancy  services  for  the design of load
dispatch facilities for the Southern Region.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 1993
     through   August 15, 2007                    11,000,000
Page  10
