                                                         CONFORMED COPY



                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 4495-MR




              Financing Agreement

(Transport Sector Institutional Development and Technical Assistance Project)



                                  between



                 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA


                                    and


           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                           Dated October 1, 2009
                                                           CREDIT NUMBER 4495-MR

                             FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated October 1, 2009, entered into between the ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC        OF     MAURITANIA  ("Recipient")   and    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("Association"). The Recipient and the Association
hereby agree as follows:

        WHEREAS         (A)      As part of its poverty reduction strategy, the Recipient
intends to support its economic growth, including through the development of its
transport sector, and more specifically the improvement of the management of its land,
maritime and air transport sub-sectors;

        (B)     The Recipient intends to allocate an amount equivalent to one million
Dollars ($1,000,000) for its contribution to the financing of the activities of the Project.

        THE PARTIES HERETO AGREE AS FOLLOWS:

             ARTICLE I -- GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II -- FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to two
        million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,800,000)
        (variously, "Credit" and "Financing") to assist in financing the project described
        in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                                           -2-


2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04    The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
        repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is the Dollar.

                             ARTICLE III -- PROJECT

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
        end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

               ARTICLE IV -- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01.   The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

        (a)     The Recipient has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form
                and substance satisfactory to the Association.

        (b)     The Recipient has recruited for the Project Coordination Team an
                accountant for the Project, with terms of reference, qualifications and
                experience satisfactory to the Association.
                                           -3-


        (c)     The Recipient has opened an account in its name in the Recipient's
                central bank, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association,
                for the deposit of the funds required for the financing of such portion of
                the Project expenditures which will not be financed from the proceeds of
                the Financing, and has made an initial deposit in an amount equivalent to
                one hundred thousand Dollars ($100,000) into said account.

4.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

4.03.   For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
        obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
        payment obligations) shall terminate is ten years after the date of this Agreement.
                                        -4-


                 ARTICLE V -- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01.   The Recipient's Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time
        responsible for economic affairs and development.

5.02.   The Recipient's Address is:

        Minister of Economic Affairs and Development
        Ministère des Affaires Economiques et du Développement
        BP 238
        Nouakchott
        Mauritania

        Facsimile:

        222- 5255110

5.03.   The Association's Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable:                 Telex:                Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                248423 (MCI)          1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.
                                 -5-


AGREED at Nouakchott, Mauritania, as of the day and year first above written.




               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA




               By /s/ Sidi Ould Tah

                                                   Authorized Representative




               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




               By /s/ Madani M. Tall

                                                   Authorized Representative
                                           -6-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                                   Project Description

        The objective of the Project is to improve the Recipient's land, maritime and air
transport sector management.

        The Project consists of the following parts:

      Part 1 - Institutional Support and Capacity-Building for the Recipient's
Land Transport Sub-sector

        Institutional support and technical capacity-building for the Recipient's land
transport sub-sector, including the DGTT, with a focus on road safety assessment,
knowledge building, road accident prevention, management, monitoring and evaluation.

       Part 2 - Support to Institutional and Technical Capacity-Building for the
Recipient's Maritime Transport Sub-sector

         Institutional Support and technical capacity-building for the Recipient's maritime
transport sub-sector, including: (i) institutional strengthening of the DMM and the
Maritime Affairs Studies and Coordination Unit, (ii) support to the design of a port
information system, (iii) knowledge building within the sub-sector, and (iv) improvement
of the legal and regulatory framework.

       Part 3 - Support to the Recipient's Air Transport System Re-organization
and Technical Capacity-Building

        Support to the Recipient's air transport system, including for: (i) the design of a
development program for the Recipient's airports; and (ii) the revision of the Recipient's
Civil Aviation Legislation.

      Part 4 ­ Support to the Recipient's Ministry Responsible for Transport
Coordination and Project Activities Coordination

       Strengthening MOT's management capacity, including in the areas of planning,
programming and multi-modal coordination role.
                                            -7-


                                      SCHEDULE 2

                                    Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements

1.      The MOT

(a)     In the MOT, the General Secretary shall be responsible for providing overall
        Project strategic guidance and oversight. The General Secretary shall meet with
        the Project Coordination Team and the Executing Agencies, at least once every
        calendar quarter to review the progress in the implementation of the Project.
        Minutes of these meetings describing, inter alia, the supervision activities carried
        out and the strategic guidance provided to the Project Coordination Team and the
        Executing Agencies, will be prepared and provided to the Association for
        information.

(b)     The Inspector General of the MOT shall be responsible for the internal audit of
        the Project, pursuant to modalities described in more details in the Project
        Implementation Manual.

2.      The Project Coordination Team

(a)     The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, within the
        DEPC, a Project Coordination Team with terms of reference, composition and
        resources, satisfactory to the Association.

(b)     Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (a), the Project
        Coordination Team shall be responsible for Project implementation and
        coordination, procurement and financial management, monitoring and evaluation,
        and shall provide necessary guidance to the Executing Agencies. The Recipient
        shall ensure that, throughout the implementation of the Project, the Project
        Coordination Team has sufficient resources available, including staff sufficient in
        number, with terms of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
        Association including, inter alia: (i) a Project coordinator; (ii) a procurement
        specialist (subject to the provisions of Section V, Paragraph (A)(1) below) ; (iii) a
        financial management specialist; (iv) an accountant; and (v) an executive
        assistant.
                                          -8-


3.      The Executing Agencies

(a)     Under the coordination of the Project Coordination Team, throughout Project
        Implementation, each Executing Agency shall be responsible for the preparation
        and technical implementation of its respective activities and shall report to the
        Project Coordination Team. The Recipient shall ensure that, throughout Project
        implementation, each Executing Agency maintains a level of institutional
        resources and capacity sufficient and considered satisfactory by the Association
        to efficiently prepare and implement its respective activities under the Project.

B.      Project Manual

1.      The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Project Implementation Manual and, unless the Recipient and
        the Association shall otherwise agree in writing, shall not amend or waive any
        provision of the Project Implementation Manual in a manner which, in the
        opinion of the Association, could have a material adverse impact on the
        implementation of the Project.

C.      Anti-Corruption

        The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      (a)     The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
                prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
                Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators
                set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project
                Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
                furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the
                period covered by such report.

        (b)     The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a)
                consist of the following:
                                        -9-


             (i)      At the completion of the Project, the Recipient has adopted,
             further to a broad stakeholders consultation process including civil
             society representatives, a letter of transport sector policy designed to
             address policy, institutional and legal issues for the efficient operation of
             the transport sector on the Recipient's territory, in scope and details
             satisfactory to the Association.

             (ii)    At the completion of the Project, the Recipient has, further to
             (A) a broad stakeholders consultation process including civil society
             representatives, and (B) consultation with the Global Road Safety
             Partnership for the purpose of seeking its review and comments, adopted
             a road safety strategy substantially consistent with said comments.

             (iii)   At the completion of the Project, the Recipient has, further to:

                     (A) the development of a road safety manual for primary
             schools, in close collaboration with the Recipient's government services
             in charge of education, and

                     (B) a broad stakeholders consultation process involving teachers,
             parents of students and civil society representatives,

             launched road safety curricula in pilot schools.

             (iv)    At the completion of the Project, the Recipient has revised its
             Merchant Shipping Code and regulations, which will be consistent with
             the IMO conventions ratified by the Recipient, and the relevant IMO
             standards, including the provisions of the ISPS Code.

             (v)    At the completion of the Project, the Recipient has revised the
             Civil Aviation Legislation and adopted a new civil aviation code which
             will be consistent with the text of the International Civil Aviation
             Convention establishing the ICAO, and its subsequent annexes, and
             comply substantially with the relevant norms and standards
             recommended by ICAO.

2.   For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
     execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
     be furnished to the Association not later than March 31, 2013.
                                          - 10 -


B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
        system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
        Conditions.

2.      Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall
        prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each
        calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
        quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.

3.      The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
        provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
        Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient,
        with the exception of the first audit, which shall start as soon as the external
        auditor shall have been recruited in accordance with the provisions of Section V,
        paragraph A (2) of this Schedule, and cover each fiscal year of the Recipient
        during which withdrawals under the Project Preparation Advance were made.
        The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
        Association not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
        of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth
        or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions
        of this Section.

2.      Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
        be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
        Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

3.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
        particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
        Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
                                          - 11 -


B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods

1.      International Competitive Bidding.         Except as otherwise provided in
        paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
        of International Competitive Bidding.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the
        methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which
        may be used for goods. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
        under which such methods may be used:

         Procurement Method
         (a) National Competitive Bidding (*)
         (b) Shopping
         (c) Direct Contracting


(*) Subject to complementing the rules applicable to National Competitive Bidding to
ensure that: (i) bids are advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation; (ii) bid
evaluation, bidder qualification and award criteria are specified clearly in the bidding
documents; (iii) bidders are given adequate response time (minimum four weeks) to
prepare and submit bids; (iv) bids are awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder provided
that this bidder is qualified; (v) eligible bidders, including foreign bidders, are not
precluded from participating; and (vi) no preference margin is granted to domestic
contractors.

C.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services

1.      Quality- and Cost-based Selection.         Except as otherwise provided in
        paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
        awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
        specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
        which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
        the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
                                        - 12 -



       Procurement Method
       (a) Quality Based Selection
       (b) Selection Under a Fixed Budget
       (c) Least Cost Selection
       (d) Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
       (e) Single Source Selection
       (f) Selection of Individual Consultants



3.    Shortlist including national consultants only. The shortlist for the selection of
      consultants for each contract for consultants' services estimated to cost less than
      the equivalent of $100,000 may include national consultants only, pursuant to
      paragraph 2.7 of the Consultants Guidelines.

D.    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

(a)   Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, or
      otherwise provided in the Procurement Plan approved in writing by the
      Association, the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the
      Association: (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
      $250,000 or more procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding;
      (b) each contract for goods procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; (c) each
      contract for consultants' services provided by a firm estimated to cost the
      equivalent of $100,000 or more; (d) each contract for consultants' services
      provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more;
      and (e) each contract for consultants' services procured on the basis of Single
      Source Selection.

(b)   All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.

(c)   Each terms of reference for consultants' services, and each technical
      specifications and standards for the procurement of goods, shall be subject to
      Prior Review by the Association.
                                              - 13 -


(d)        All Training activities will be carried out on the basis of annual programs
           submitted annually for the prior written approval of the Association, identifying
           the general framework of the Training activities for the year, including: (i) the
           type of Training; (ii) the justifications for the Training; (iii) the content of the
           Training; (iv) the personnel to be trained; (v) the selection method of the
           institutions or individuals conducting the Training; (vi) the location of the
           Training; (vii) the individual or firm which will conduct the Training; (viii) the
           duration of the proposed Training; and (ix) the estimated cost of the Training.
           Upon completion of each Training, the Recipient shall cause the trainee to
           prepare, and shall transfer to the Association, a report on the Training received.

Section IV.        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

A.         General

1.         The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
           the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
           additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
           (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated
           May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made
           applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
           Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2.         The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
           financed out of the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the allocations of the
           amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to
           be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

           Category              Amount of the           Percentage of
                              Financing Allocated      Expenditures to be
                              (expressed in SDR)           Financed
                                                       (inclusive of Taxes)
     (1) Goods and                  2,050,000                  90%
         consultants'
         services for the
         Project, including
         Training,
         Operating Costs
         and audits
                                             - 14 -



     (2) Refund of Project           750,000          Amount payable
         Preparation                                  pursuant to
         Advance                                      Section 2.07 of the
                                                      General Conditions
     TOTAL AMOUNT                  2,800,000



B.        Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.        Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
          made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement

2.        The Closing Date is September 30, 2012.

Section V.        Other Undertakings

A.        Staff

(1)       No later than (3) three months after the Effective Date, or such later date as may
          be agreed upon by the Recipient and the Association in writing, the Recipient
          shall have recruited for the Project Coordination Team a procurement specialist
          for the Project, with terms of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory
          to the Association.

(2)       No later than (3) three months after the Effective Date, or such later date as may
          be agreed upon by the Recipient and the Association in writing, the Recipient
          shall have recruited an external auditor for the Project, for the purpose of
          completing the audit referred to in Section II, paragraph B.3 of this Schedule,
          with terms of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
          Association.

(3)       No later than (6) six months after the Effective Date, or such later date as may be
          agreed upon by the Recipient and the Association in writing, the financial
          management specialist of the Project Coordination Team will have received
          training on the Project's financial management system, in a manner and with
          results satisfactory to the Association.
                                       - 15 -


B.   Mid-Term review

     No later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, or such later date as
     may be agreed upon by the Recipient and the Association in writing, the
     Recipient and the Association shall carry out a mid term review of the Project,
     covering the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project. The
     Recipient shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association,
     and furnish to the Association three months prior to the beginning of such mid
     term review of the Project, or on such other date agreed upon with the
     Association in writing, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
     evaluation activities performed pursuant to this Agreement, on the progress
     achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of
     such report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
     carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Project
     during the period following such date.

C.   Complementary Activities

     No later than completion of the Project, the Recipient shall have completed and
     financed as part of the amounts referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement, the
     following activities to complement those included in Part 1 of the Project:

     (i)     the completion of a road safety education base; and

     (ii)    the acquisition and installation of road signs equipment to fulfill the
             needs identified while implementing the activities included in Part 1 of
             the Project.
                                        - 16 -


                                   SCHEDULE 3

                                 Repayment Schedule

              Date Payment Due                      Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                               repayable
                                                      (expressed as a percentage)*
On each April 1 and October 1:
commencing October 1, 2018 to and including                       1%
April 1, 2028
commencing October 1, 2028 to and including                       2%
April 1, 2048



* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of
the General Conditions.
                                       - 17 -


                                   APPENDIX

                                    Definitions

1.   "ANAC" means the Recipient's National Civil Aviation Agency ("Agence
     Nationale d'Aviation Civile") established by Decree No. 2004-079/PM/MET
     dated 11 August, 2004.

2.   "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
     Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
     Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006.

3.   "Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
     this Agreement.

4.   "Civil Aviation Legislation" means collectively: (i) the Recipient's law No. 78-
     009 of January 18, 1978 governing civil aviation and its regulations, and (ii) the
     provisions which have not yet been abrogated of the Recipient's law No. 62-137
     of July 3, 1962 adopting a code of civil aviation and its regulations.

5.   "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
     Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
     revised in October 2006.

6.   "DEPC" means the Recipient's Directorate of Studies, Planning and Cooperation
     ("Direction des Etudes, de la Programmation et de la Coopération") established
     within the MOT.

7.   "DMM" means the Recipient's Merchant Maritime Directorate ("Direction de la
     Marine Marchande") established within the MOT.

8.   "DGTT" means the Road Transport General Directorate ("Direction Générale
     des Transports Terrestres") established within the MOT.

9.   "Executing Agency" means an entity or agency of the Recipient which is a direct
     beneficiary of an activity implemented under the Project including, DGTT,
     ANAC, Mauritanian Airports Corporation, Maritime Affairs Studies and
     Coordination Unit, and DMM.
                                       - 18 -


10.   "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
      General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
      through October 15, 2006).

11.   "Global Road Safety Partnership" means the global partnership between
      business, civil society and governmental organizations collaborating to improve
      road safety conditions around the world, established by and operating in
      accordance with its constitution and operating modalities approved by all its
      members in steering committee on June 1, 2005, as further revised from time to
      time.

12.   "ICAO" means International Civil Aviation Organization, the organization
      established pursuant to the International Civil Aviation Convention of
      September 7, 1944, and whose objective is to promote the secure and organized
      development of international civil aviation across the world.

13.   "IMO" means the International Maritime Organization, the United Nations'
      agency responsible for improving maritime safety and preventing pollution from
      ships, established by Convention adopted in Geneva on March 6, 1948, which
      became effective on March 17, 1958.

14.   "ISPS Code" means the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code
      adopted by the IMO by resolution dated December 12, 2002 amending the Safety
      of Life at Sea Convention, to provide a standardized, consistent framework for
      evaluating risk, enabling Governments to offset changes in threat with changes in
      vulnerability for ships and port facilities through determination of appropriate
      security levels and corresponding security measures.

15.   "Maritime Affairs Studies and Coordination Unit" means the Recipient's units
      for the survey and coordination of maritime affairs ("Cellule d'Etudes et de
      Coordination des Affaires Maritimes") established under the authority of the
      MOT by decision (arrêté) No. 2733/MT of November 9, 2007.

16.   "Mauritanian Airports Corporation" ("Société des Aéroports de Mauritanie")
      means the operator of the Recipient's airports in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou
      pursuant to the Recipient's decree No. 94-105 of December 15, 1994.

17.   "Merchant Shipping Code" means the Recipient's "Code de la marine
      marchande" adopted by law No. 95-009 of January 31, 1995.

18.   "MOT" means the Recipient's ministry in charge of transport established by
      decree No. 096-2007/PM of June 20, 2007.
                                         - 19 -


19.   "Operating Costs" means the incremental operating expenses, based on annual
      budgets approved by the Association, incurred by DEPC on account of the
      Project implementation, management, monitoring and evaluation, including rent
      for buildings; office, vehicles, office equipment and other operation and
      maintenance costs; water and electricity utilities, telephone, office supplies, bank
      charges, additional staff costs, travel and supervision costs, per diem, but
      excluding the salaries of officials and public servants of the Recipient's civil
      service.

20.   "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
      Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
      October, 2006.

21.   "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project,
      dated April 19, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
      Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
      updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

22.   "Project Coordination Team" means the team established by the Recipient within
      the DEPC, responsible, inter alia, for the coordination of the Project, referred to
      in Section I, Paragraph A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

23.   "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual adopted by the Recipient,
      outlining implementation, organizational, administrative, monitoring and
      evaluation, financial management, disbursement, procurement arrangements and
      accounting procedures, as shall have been agreed with the Association for
      purposes of Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to
      time with the prior written concurrence of the Association, and such term
      includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual.

24.   "Project Preparation Advance" means the advances referred to in Section 2.07 of
      the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to
      the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on August 17, 2005 and
      on behalf of the Recipient on September 7, 2005.
                                         - 20 -


25.   "Training" means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities,
      carried out on the basis of annual programs specified in Section III. D (d) of
      Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and such term includes seminars, workshops, and
      study tours, and costs associated with such activity include travel and subsistence
      costs for training participants, costs of securing the services of trainers, rental of
      training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials and other
      costs directly related to course preparation and implementation related to the
      Project.
