                              Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR2528



        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-44950)



                                ON A

                               CREDIT

                 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.8 MILLION
                    (US$4.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO THE

                 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA

                               FOR A

  TRANSPORT SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL
                      ASSISTANCE PROJECT



                            March 14, 2013




Transport Sector
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Regional Office
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2012)

                Currency Unit = Mauritanian Ouguiya (MRO)
                           MRO 301.50 = US$1
                             US$1.54 = SDR 1

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANAC     Agence Nationale de l’Aviation Civile (National Civil Aviation Authority)
APL      Adaptative Program Lending
ARTR     Autorité de Régulation des Transports Routiers (Road transport Regulation
         Authority)
ASECNA   Agency for Air Navigation Safety in Africa and Madagascar (Agence pour la
         Sécurité de la Navigation Aérienne en Afrique et à Madagascar)
BAAC     Bulletin d 'Analyse des Accidents de la Circulation (Road Traffic Accidents
         Analysis Report)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CECAM    Cellule d'Etudes et de Coordination des Affaires Maritimes (Maritime Affairs
         Studies and Coordination Unit)
CETUD    Conseil Exécutif des Transports Urbain de Dakar (Dakar Urban Transport
         ExecutiveCouncil)
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
CUN      Communauté Urbaine de Nouakchott (Nouakchott Metropolitan Area)
DEPC     Direction des Etudes, de la Programmation et de la Coopération (Directorate of
         Studies, Planning and Cooperation)
DGTT     Direction Générale des Transports Terrestres (General Directorate of Land
         Transport)
DMM      Direction de la Marine Marchande (Merchant Shipping Directorate)
DSR      Direction de la Sécurité Routière (Road Safety Directorate)
EDF      European Development Fund
ESW      Economic and Sector Work
EU       European Union
FA       Financing Agreement
FMR      Financial Management Report
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GIRM     Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
GNI      Gross National Income
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAO     International Civil Aviation Organization
IDA      International Development Association
IFR      Interim Unaudited Financial Report
IMO      International Maritime Organization
ISPS     International Shipping and port facility Security
KPI      Key Performance Indicator
LSP      Letter of Sector Policy
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MARPOL     International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
ME         Ministry of Education
MET        Ministry of Equipment and Transport
MIO        Maritime Investigation Office
MRO        Mauritanian Ouguiya
MTR        Mid-term Review
NGO        Nongovernmental Organization
NRSS       National Road Safety Strategy
NTP        National Transport Plan
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PAN        Port Autonome de Nouadhibou (Port of Nouadhibou)
PANPA      Port Autonome de Nouakchott-Port de l’Amitié (Port of Nouakchott)
PDO        Project Development Objective
PNDP       Port of Nouakchott Development Project
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
PRSP-3     Third Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (Cadre Stratégique de Lutte contre la
           Pauvreté - CSLP-3)
SAM        Société des Aéroports de Mauritanie (Mauritanian Airports Company)
STP        Société des Transports Publics (Public Transport Company)
TA         Technical Assistance
TAL        Technical Assistance Loan
TSIDTAP    Transport Sector Institutional Development and Technical Assistance Project
TSS        Transport Sector Strategy
TTL        Task Team Leader
WCAATSSP   West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Project




                           Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                         Country Director: Vera Songwe
                           Sector Director Jamal Saghir
                          Sector Manager: Supee Teravaninthorn
                     Project Team Leader: Ibou Diouf
                        ICR Team Leader: Papa Mamadou Fall
                        MAURITANIA
TRANSPORT SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL
                    ASSISTANCE PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 22
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 23
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 25
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 27
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 31
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 32
  MAP
                                        DATASHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                            MAURITANIA:
                                                                            TRANSPORT
                                                                            SECTOR
                                                                            INSTITUTIONAL
Country:                Mauritania                Project Name:
                                                                            DEVELOPMENT
                                                                            AND TECHNICAL
                                                                            ASSISTANCE
                                                                            PROJECT
Project ID:             P089672                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-44950
ICR Date:               01/23/2013                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     TAL                       Borrower:
                                                                            OF MAURITANIA
Original Total
                        XDR 2.80M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 2.28M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 2.80M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Directorate of Studies, Planning and Cooperation - Ministry of Transport
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Mauritania

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/27/2007      Effectiveness:             01/15/2010       12/29/2009
Appraisal:             04/14/2008      Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/31/2008      Mid-term Review:           06/05/2011       05/15/2011
                                       Closing:                   09/30/2012       09/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory




                                                  i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Transportation                                 100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 50                  50
Other public sector governance                                         50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Vera Songwe                          Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:            Supee Teravaninthorn                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Project Team Leader:       Ibou Diouf                           Ibou Diouf
ICR Team Leader:           Papa Mamadou Fall
ICR Primary Author:        Papa Mamadou Fall


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective is to: Improve land, maritime, and air transport
sector management.
                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target    Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Letter of sector policy.
Value
                  Preliminary study
quantitative or                              Letter approved.                 Letter approved.
                  completed.
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                 05/15/2011                       09/30/2012
Comments
                  100% achievement. The letter of sector policy was approved by the council of
(incl. %
                  ministers on September 13, 2012.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Road safety strategy.
                  Scattered responsibilities
Value                                        Strategy is defined
                  among several agencies                                      Strategy is defined
quantitative or                              and adopted by the
                  without a coordinated                                       and adopted.
Qualitative)                                 Government.
                  framework.
Date achieved     06/30/2008                 09/30/2012                       09/30/2012
Comments          100% achievement. The strategy has been defined by the Government further to
(incl. %          a broad consultation process. The strategy has been approved by the council of
achievement)      ministers on August 04, 2012.
                  Road safety prevention curriculum implemented by the Ministry of Education in
Indicator 3 :
                  pilot schools.
                                                                              Road safety
Value             Lack of road safety        Launch of                        prevention
quantitative or   sensitization in primary curriculum in pilot                curriculum is
Qualitative)      education curriculum.      schools.                         launched in pilot
                                                                              schools.
Date achieved     06/30/2008                 09/30/2012                       09/30/2012
Comments          100% achievement. As a result of a broad consultative process, a road safety
(incl. %          manual was developed and introduced in pilot schools for the 2012-13 school
achievement)      year.
Indicator 4 :     Merchant shipping code and regulations, including ISPS code provisions.
Value
quantitative or Code is outdated.          Code is revised.                  Code is revised.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2008                   09/30/2012                        09/30/2012
                100% achievement. Revision is consistent with the IMO conventions ratified by
Comments
                the Recipient, and the relevant IMO standards, including the provisions of the
(incl. %
                ISPS Code. The code was approved by the council of ministers on September 27,
achievement)
                2012.
Indicator 5 : Civil aviation code.

                                                 iii
                                           Code is revised,                 Code is revised in
Value           Code outdated,             compliant with                   compliance with
quantitative or preliminary update         ICAO standard,                   ICAO standard, and
Qualitative)    already carried out.       and adopted by the               adopted by the
                                           Government.                      Government.
Date achieved 06/30/2008                   09/30/2012                       09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %      100% achievement. The code is in force with highly satisfactory results.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
                  Database producing the number of accidents in Nouakchott per 100,000
Indicator 1 :
                  inhabitants.
Value
                                           Database
(quantitative     ToRs available.                                           Achieved.
                                           available.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008               09/30/2012                       09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          100% achievement. Database is available and functional.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Action plan for road safety strategy in Nouakchott.
                                           Action plan
                                                                            Action plan drafted,
Value                                      drafted, adopted,
                                                                            adopted, and
(quantitative   Lack of plan.              and
                                                                            implementation
or Qualitative)                            implementation
                                                                            started.
                                           started.
Date achieved 06/30/2008                   09/30/2012                       09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement. Awareness campaign completed on June 30, 2012.
achievement)
                Merchant Shipping Directorate (Direction de la Marine Marchande - DMM)
Indicator 3 :
                staffing.
Value                                      Key high level                   Staff are in place
(quantitative   Recruitment of 16 staff. staff in place and                 and have been
or Qualitative)                            trained.                         trained.
Date achieved 06/30/2008                   09/30/2012                       09/30/2012
Comments        100% achievement. Training received in Merchant marine operations, ISPS and
(incl. %        Port state control completed. Thanks to the project, two DMM staff received a
achievement) master’s degree in Port Administration.
Indicator 4 : ISPS and MARPOL conventions compliance monitoring by DMM.
Value                                      M&E system
                ISPS convention
(quantitative                              available (yearly                Achieved.
                monitoring started.
or Qualitative)                            reports produced).


                                                iv
Date achieved   06/30/2008                 09/30/2012                          09/30/2012
Comments
                100% achievement. DMM is monitoring ISPS on a regular basis. The project has
(incl. %
                financed new equipment, including electronic navigational chart.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   Airport investment plan.
                                           Airport Investment
Value
                                           Plan approved and
(quantitative   ToRs of the study drafted.                               Achieved.
                                           implementation
or Qualitative)
                                           started.
Date achieved 06/30/2008                   09/30/2012                    09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Procurement schedule.
Value
                Procurement plan           Annual
(quantitative                                                            Achieved.
                established                adjustment.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2008                   09/30/2012                    09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement. Procurement plan updated on a regular basis, as needed.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Financial management reports (FMRs) and audits.
Value           FMR format agreed upon
(quantitative   between IDA and            Annual audit.                 Achieved.
or Qualitative) Government.
Date achieved 06/30/2008                   09/30/2012                    09/30/2012
Comments
                100% achievement. Annual audits were completed and FMR were submitted to
(incl. %
                IDA on a quarterly basis.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
        Date ISR
No.                               DO                           IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
                              Moderately                  Moderately
  1    12/22/2008                                                                           0.00
                             Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately                  Moderately
  2    05/21/2009                                                                           0.00
                             Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
                                                          Moderately
  3    10/27/2009      Moderately Satisfactory                                              0.00
                                                        Unsatisfactory
  4    12/30/2009      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                0.00
  5    06/09/2010      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                1.63
  6    12/25/2010      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                1.80
  7    07/10/2011          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       2.35
  8    02/12/2012          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       2.79
  9    06/27/2012          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       2.96

                                                 v
 10    10/02/2012         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   3.40


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     Economic situation at appraisal. At the time of appraisal in 2008 Mauritania
had a population of 3.2 million and a gross national income (GNI) per capita of US$840.
Overall gross domestic product (GDP) growth decreased from 11.4 percent in 2006 to 1.0
percent in 2007. The country went through a period of political instability with the
overthrow of elected governments twice, in 2005 and 2008. After three years of sustained
dialogue between the government and development partners, the political crisis in the
second half of 2008 led the international community to put most of its activities on hold,
except humanitarian aid. The World Bank curtailed its operations in Mauritania from
August 2008 until September 2009.

2.      Transport sector. The road transport network consisted of 10,927 km of
classified roads of which about 7,873 km were rural earth roads. Mauritania had three
international airports (Nouakchott, Nouadhibou, and Atar), seven regional airfields and
one national airline. Mauritania had two ports: the main port of Nouakchott and the
secondary port of Nouadhibou.

3.      Land transport sub-sector. The road sub-sector was characterized by a persistent
imbalance between construction, rehabilitation and maintenance funds. As a result, more
than half of the country’s core road network was in poor or bad condition. At the same
time, the Ministry did not have a Transport Sector Strategy that indicated a clear roadmap
for the development and more effective management of the sub-sector.

4.      At the time of appraisal, the status of road safety was worrisome. Indeed, in 2007,
National reports showed that an estimated 138 people a year were killed in accidents on
national roads, including about 50 people a year in Nouakchott. Between 2002 and 2007,
the occurrence of accidents mirrored the 15 to 20 percent annual growth of the transport
fleet, while the number of casualties increased from 25 to 30 percent.

5.      Maritime sub-sector. The maritime sector was characterized by fragmented
ownership: management of the two main ports at Nouakchott and Nouadhibou were
under different ministries, while operations at the mineral quay in Nouadhibou were
overseen by a third ministry. Also, the agencies involved in the management and
coordination of the maritime sector suffered significant capacity issues linked with the
lack of training and adequate staffing. Furthermore, the legal and institutional
frameworks of the maritime sub-sector were outdated and were not in compliance with
International Maritime Organization (IMO) standards.

6.      Air sub-sector. At the time of appraisal, the institutional framework of the air
transport sub-sector was unclear and was characterized by weak administrative and
financial capacity. The newly created Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) operated in an
ambiguous legal environment and lacked the capacity to fulfill its mission of ensuring



                                            1
operators’ compliance with international safety and security standards. Overall, security
measures at all airports were inadequate with regard to the minimum requirements of
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standard security measures (obsolete
security equipment, lack of comprehensive training and security plan). Runways,
taxiways, and apron surfaces at Nouakchott and Nouadhibou Airports were in a badly
deteriorating state and required immediate intervention. A new airline company
(Mauritania Airways) had emerged, in replacement of liquidated former carrier (Air
Mauritanie).

7.      Sector policies and plans. The Government of the Islamic Republic of
Mauritania (GIRM) with the support of the World Bank and the European Union (EU)
undertook a comprehensive analytical review of the sector on the basis of the National
Transport Plan (NTP) and the 2004 Bank financed economic and sector work 1 (ESW). As
a result, the GIRM outlined a coherent roadmap which consisted of: (a) the liberalization
of the road transport industry which was enacted by a 2005 decree; (b) the creation in
2004 of an autonomous Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) in replacement of the Civil
Aviation Directorate; (c) the completion and adoption in 2007 of sectoral studies (road
transport strategy and multimodal transport strategy); and (d) the creation in 2004 of a
Directorate of Studies, Planning, and Cooperation (DEPC) within the Ministry of
Equipment and Transport (MET), tasked with the coordination, formulation and
implementation of sector policies and strategies.

8.      The Project. The Transport Sector Institutional Development and Technical
Assistance Project (TSIDTAP) was primarily designed to support the above-mentioned
reforms by improving the management capacities of the GIRM in the land, maritime, and
transport subsectors. It was also designed to improve overall sector coherence and
coordination, and provide for a clear vision of the transport sector. The total estimated
cost of the project at appraisal was about US$5.5 million of which US$4.5 million would
be funded by IDA while the balance would be funded by GIRM.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

9.      The PDO. The Project Development Objective as stated in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) was to improve land, maritime, and air transport sector management.
The project also sought to strengthen the sector coordination capacity of the MET in
order to achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness of Mauritanian transport sector.

10.    The PDO was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated June,
2007 (IDA/Report No. 39532), which identified governance and public sector capacity as
key priorities.

11.  Key Indicators of Performance. The key performance indicators are
summarized in the table below.


1
    Islamic Republic of Mauritania, Transport Sector Overview, Report No. 30039 dated September 2004.



                                                    2
                            Table 1: Key Performance Indicators
      Land transport sub-sector
      PDO Indicators:
      • The definition and adoption of road safety strategy; and
      • The introduction of a road safety curriculum in pilot primary schools.
      Intermediate Outcome Indicators:
      • Database producing number of accidents in Nouakchott per 100,000 inhabitants
      • Action plan for road safety strategy in Nouakchott.
      Maritime transport sub-sector
      PDO Indicator:
      • The update of the Merchant Shipping Code and Regulations, including
          International Shipping and Port facility Security (ISPS 2) code provisions.
      Intermediate Outcome Indicators:
      • Merchant Shipping Directorate (DMM) staffing;
      • ISPS and Marine Pollution (MARPOL) conventions compliance monitoring by
          DMM
      Air transport sub-sector
      PDO Indicator:
      • The update of the civil aviation code.
      Intermediate Outcome Indicators:
      • Airport investment plan
      Transport sector coordination
      PDO Indicator:
      • The adoption of a letter of sector policy (LSP)
      Intermediate Outcome Indicators:
      • Procurement schedule
      • Financial management reports and audits

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

12.      The objectives of the project were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.     The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) did not explicitly identify project
beneficiaries. However, it is clear that the population at large was expected to benefit
from the outcome of institutional strengthening activities supported by the project. More
specifically: (i) institutional strengthening under the project would result in the more
efficient management of the sector; (ii) improvement in road safety management would
have a benefit in terms of the costs of avoided accidents; (iii) the updated maritime code


2
  ISPS Code is implemented through chapter XI-2 Special measures to enhance maritime security in the
International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), 1974 and enforced since 2004.



                                                   3
would improve security and safety of ports operations; and (iv) the updated civil aviation
regulatory and legal framework would improve security and safety of airport operations.

1.5 Original Components

14.    The project consisted of four components, which were clearly linked to the PDO
and key indicators. These components were:

15.     Component 1: Institutional Support and Capacity-Building for Land
Transport Sub-sector. Support to the newly created Directorate General of Land
Transport (DGTT) through: (i) institutional capacity-building (with support to road safety
directorate); (ii) road safety situation assessment and implementation of a pilot
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system in Nouakchott; (iii) launch of a sensitization
campaign; (iv) development of a “road safety introduction book? for primary education;
(v) purchase of equipment for an experimental road safety education base; and (vi)
definition of a national road safety strategy.

16.    Component 2: Support to Institutional and Technical Capacity-Building for
the Maritime Transport Sub-sector. Support to GIRM’s efforts in reorganizing the
maritime sub-sector, through: (i) capacity building for the newly created Merchant
Shipping Directorate (Direction de la Marine Marchande - DMM) and Maritime Affairs
Studies and Coordination Unit (CECAM); (ii) development and implementation of an
information system for the port of Nouadhibou (PAN); and (iii) improvement of the legal
and regulatory framework of the sub-sector through the update of the Merchant Shipping
Code and Regulations.

17.     Component 3: Support to Air Transport System Reorganization and
Technical Capacity-Building. (i) Support to GIRM’s efforts to set up a development
program for Mauritanian airports by funding a master plan for the development of
airports, including a detailed development plan and an investment plan for Nouakchott
Airport; and (ii) support the update of the outdated civil aviation code.

18.      Component 4: Support to the Ministry’s Coordination Role and Project
Activities Coordination. (i) Support to the DEPC through staff training, technical
assistance (fiduciary support, and monitoring and evaluation), and purchase of equipment
and vehicles to ensure close coordination of the different sub-sector units involved in the
project; and (ii) definition of a letter of sector policy (LSP) designed to address policy,
institutional and legal issues for the efficient operation of the transport sector.

1.6 Revised Components

19.    The components of the project were not revised.




                                            4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.    The project was fully consistent with the CAS and supported the CAS objective
of promoting economic governance and public sector capacity. The project design was
based on sound dialogue supported by the 2004 World Bank-financed ESW, the 2007
EU-financed Road Sector Study and the 2007 World Bank-financed 3 Multimodal
Transport Sector Study.

21.    TSIDTAP was prepared in a collaborative manner and GIRM took the lead role.
Information sharing and consultations also took place with the donor community.

22.     Although not explicitly mentioned in the PAD, the project design adopted a
number of relevant lessons learned from previous World Bank experience in the reform
of the transport sector such as: (i) comprehensive sector-wide institutional reforms yield
more sustainable benefits compared to a piecemeal approach of tackling reforms; (ii) the
benefit of carrying out focused sub-sectoral analysis prior to engaging in comprehensive
sector-wide reforms; and (iii) the importance of transport sector donor coordination and
alignment in ensuring government’s commitment to the reform agenda.

23.      At an early stage of preparation, the project sought to finance physical
investments to improve Mauritanian transport infrastructures, as well as capacity
strengthening activities. However, given the drop in the country’s IDA allocation,
financing for the investment part of the project was no longer available. After discussing
the matter with the World Bank, GIRM decided to scale down the project scope and
maintain only the technical assistance activities. This strategic choice was sound in light
of critical capacity building needs which remained substantial regardless of infrastructure
needs.

24.     At the time of appraisal, the second phase (APL 2-B) of the West and Central
Africa Air transport Safety and Security Project (WCAATSSP) was under preparation
with Mauritania as one of the three potential recipient countries. In light of limited
available financing for the TSIDTAP, all proposed activities of the civil aviation
component of TSIDTAP dealing with security and safety equipment and training were
transferred to the then proposed Mauritanian component of WCAATSSP.

25.     At project preparation, a risk analysis was carried out and the mitigation measures
were correctly identified. The capacity of Directorates/public agencies to implement the
project was allocated “high risk? rating and this was adequately mitigated through close
supervision by the Bank, and through quarterly portfolio monitoring and review. The
technical risk linked with the sensitive nature of the reforms which required a
comprehensive understanding of sector issues, was managed through the provision of
specialized training, especially in the maritime sector. The other risk stemming from the


3
    Financed under the Urban Development Project (Credit. 3574-MAU).


                                                   5
option to mainstream project management within the MET was managed through
agreeing on a series of key actions as follows: (i) appointment of a project coordinator
who is familiar with Bank procurement guidelines; (ii) preparation of an adequate
administrative, accounting, and financial management manual; and (iii) recruitment of an
accountant and a procurement specialist prior to effectiveness.

26.    The risk linked with the reversal in government commitment to reforms due to the
limited funding offered by the project was mitigated by the fact that the GIRM had
committed to the same reforms with the EU which offered substantial investment
financing of the sector. Hence, through the project, the World Bank reinforced the joint
EU/IDA dialogue with the GIRM.

27.     The project is rated as satisfactory in terms of quality at entry. The rating is based
on the following criteria: (i) consistency of the project’s objectives with GIRM priorities,
and the CAS; (ii) the project design which was sound and simple; and (iii) the risk
identification and mitigation which was candid, relevant and robust.

2.2 Implementation

28.     Implementation was initially delayed by more than a year as a direct consequence
of the August 6, 2008 coup after which the Bank curtailed its operations in Mauritania
until September 2009. This meant that although the project was approved on July 31,
2008, it only became effective seventeen months later on December 29, 2009. However,
in light of the good implementation performance, the project closing date was not
extended to make up for the initial ‘force majeure’ delay in project implementation.

29.     Shortly after the lifting of suspension of Bank operations in Mauritania, the
project team carried out a reengagement mission, which allowed the signing of the
project’s financing agreement (FA) and the subsequent declaration of project
effectiveness on December 29, 2009.

30.     The delay in the start of the project was partly mitigated by the fact that, during
the long hiatus, the Directorate of Studies, Planning and Cooperation (Direction des
Etudes, de la Programmation et de la Coopération - DEPC) made significant progress in
the preparation of the procurement activities in anticipation of project effectiveness.

31.     In 2008, shortly after TSIDTAP’s approval, Mauritania was dropped from Phase
2-B of WCAATSSP because of the suspension of World Bank activities in the country.
Following the lifting of suspension of World Bank operations in September 2009, IDA
resources from the Regional Integration Department were no longer available for
Mauritania to join the WCAATSSP. As a result, the expected IDA parallel financing in
equipment and training to benefit the country’s civil aviation (cf. paragraph 24) did not
materialize. In light of this, the GIRM decided to take the lead and provide the funding
given the importance of the activities in improving the ICAO compliance of the country’s
civil aviation sub sector.




                                              6
32.     In 2010, the GIRM took the unexpected decision to create a new Public Transport
Company (Société des Transports Publics - STP) and an Authority for the Regulation of
Road Transport (Autorité de Régulation des Transports Routiers - ARTR). While the
project implementation arrangements were not directly impacted by this decision, the
World Bank and the EU undertook with the GIRM a thorough review of the mandates of
the new institutions to ensure that sector policy and reforms agreed with the GIRM were
not at risk and that there were no overlapping of mandates and backtracking regarding
sector liberalization.

33.    DMM which at the time of appraisal was housed within the MET was transferred
for project effectiveness to the Ministry in charge of Fishing and Maritime Economy.
This change had a negative impact on the coordination and follow-up of project activities.
As a result, the preparation and validation process of the new maritime code was delayed
by almost one year.

34.     The World Bank conducted a Mid Term Review (MTR) of the project in May
2011. Implementation and progress toward achievement of PDOs were noted as
satisfactory. By MTR, initial lag in project implementation had been substantially
absorbed, and the disbursement rate stood at 49 percent. The project indicators were
deemed fully achievable by project closing and no restructuring was envisaged.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

35.     M&E Design and Implementation: The M&E design was simple and included five
key performance indicators (KPIs) which were easy to measure and directly attributable
to the achievements of the project.

36.     M&E Utilization: DEPC has been equipped with a sector-wide M&E tool which
is updated and utilized on a regular basis (cf. paragraph 66). The Directorate of Road
Safety (DSR) is now staffed and equipped to monitor accidents and a pilot M&E system
is available and functional for the city of Nouakchott (cf. paragraph 53).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

37.    Safeguard. As the project did not involve physical investments, it was rated
category C. Therefore, no safeguard policy was triggered.

38.     Financial Management. Financial management by the coordinating unit was
efficient. The quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) were received regularly
and were fully compliant with the agreed format. Audits were done annually and on-time
and were unqualified.

39.      Procurement. Procurement under the project was satisfactory. All procurement
activities and post-reviews were satisfactory. Procurement Plans were updated on a
regular basis (at least once a year) and all procurement activities were executed
efficiently and in a timely manner.



                                            7
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

40.     The 2012 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) did not identify any operation in
the transport sector. Nevertheless, consolidation of the project’s result is foreseen in the
continued joint dialogue and coordination with the EU. The World Bank will continue to
work with the GIRM through the donor coordination mechanism to ensure that the
project outcomes are sustained and that sufficient funding is provided to the sector.

41.      The proposed IBRD enclave for the Port of Nouakchott Development Project
(PNDP) which builds on the achievements of the maritime transport component of
TSIDTAP was finally dropped by the GIRM in December 2012, after two years of
preparation. Nevertheless, the GIRM envisages pursuing the development of a container
terminal for the port of Nouakchott, although it is not clear to what extent private sector
participation in port operations will materialize in the near future, which was the initial
plan. On the positive side, both the TSIDTAP and the aborted PNDP helped in providing
a better assessment of the type and scope of activities, commercial risks, and all pre-
requisite conditions that international operators usually require.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

42.    The PDO remains relevant. The overall objective of improving management of
land, maritime, and air transport sectors remains a priority for the GIRM. Indeed, the
GIRM in its 2011-2015 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-3) emphasizes the need
to promote the capacity strengthening and development of transport to foster economic
growth and poverty reduction.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

43.    The PDO rating is satisfactory for the following reasons.

44.     First, the PDO of improving the country’s management of the land, maritime, and
air transport sub-sectors, has been largely achieved.

45.    Secondly, the transfer of knowledge between the various consultants and
concerned directorates, and agencies involved in project implementation has largely been
achieved through good collaboration.

46.      Thirdly, a number of institutional tools for more rational sector planning and
management have been put in place. These include but are not limited to: (i) the transport
letter of sector policy (LSP); (ii) the sector-wide monitoring and evaluation tool housed at
DEPC; (iii) the National Road Safety Strategy; (iv) the revised maritime code; and (v) the
revised civil aviation code.




                                             8
47.     Fourthly, the participatory process introduced by the project with regards to road
safety, has created a dynamic collaboration between the MET, NGOs, and civil society
that never existed in the past and a high-level political support with regards to road safety
issues.

48.      What follows is a detailed assessment of the project’s achievements against its
specific objectives.

(i) Objective 1: Strengthen institutional capacity and management of the land
transport sub-sector.

49.        The rating is satisfactory for the following reasons.

50.     First, the project helped set up a framework conducive to addressing road safety
issues in a cohesive manner. A modern National Road Safety Strategy (NRSS), consistent
with international standards and best practices 4 was further defined following broad
consultations with all relevant stakeholders. The strategy was approved by the National
transportation Commission on May 30, 2012 and adopted by the council of ministers on
August 04, 2012. Implementation of the strategy’s action plan started with a road safety
awareness campaign held in Nouakchott between April and June 2012, under the
leadership of the Directorate of Road Safety (DSR) and with the support of an
international consultant, and NGOs.

51.      Secondly, thanks to the project, the mainstreaming of road safety in primary
school curricula is likely to be achieved. An illustrated road safety manual for children
was produced and 10,000 copies were printed. The manual has been introduced as a pilot
initiative of the Ministry of Education (ME) in 8 primary schools in Nouakchott and 3
schools in Nouadhibou for the 2012-13 academic year.

52.    Furthermore, in support of mainstreaming of road safety in primary education, the
GIRM has invested US$526,000 in the construction of a Road Safety Education Track for
primary school students in the Nouakchott area. It is expected that the facility will be
operational by the upcoming academic year (2013-14).

53.     Thirdly, the project has equipped DSR with a road accident database which is
already producing statistics to feed into the existing Road Traffic Accidents Analysis
Report (BAAC). Furthermore, the project exposed seven DSR staff to international best-
practice in road safety through a training session held in Senegal with the participation of
world class road safety experts from Senegal, France and Belgium. Finally, as a result of
the information being generated by the road accident database, a monthly report on road
safety statistics is presented during the council of ministers on a monthly basis, ensuring
continued high-level ownership of road safety issues.



4
    The strategy was reviewed by the Global Road Safety Partnership (GRSP).



                                                     9
      Box 1. Introduction of a road safety curriculum in pilot primary schools.


                                                 On November 19, 2012, the Minister
                                                 of Transport and the Minister of
                                                 Education jointly launched the
                                                 introduction of a road safety manual
                                                 in pilot elementary schools in
                                                 Mauritania.

                                                 This initiative is highly appreciated
                                                 at the Government level. Indeed, the
                                                 GIRM intends to gradually extend
                                                 the manual to every school in the
                                                 country the upcoming academic
                                                 years.

                                                 The Manual, which was jointly
                                                 prepared by a group of experts from
                                                 the two ministries, features a
                                                 simplified illustrative explanation of
                                                 road safety issues. It evokes in a
                                                 simplified style, the issues of road
                                                 safety, and raises awareness of the
                                                 risks in the use of the telephone, the
                                                 risks of driving when tired or sleepy,
                                                 the importance of fastening seatbelts,
                                                 etc. The manual teaches children
                                                 how to cross a road in a safe manner,
                                                 and puts an emphasis on the risks
                                                 associated with children playing in
                                                 the streets and public places.



(ii) Objective 2: Strengthen institutional capacity and management of the maritime
transport sub-sector.

54.    The rating is satisfactory for the following reasons.

55.    Thanks to the project, the legal and regulatory framework of the maritime sub-
sector was revised and is now consistent with the IMO conventions ratified by the GIRM
and the relevant IMO standards, including the provisions of the International Shipping
and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code. The revised maritime code was adopted by the
council of ministers on November 29, 2012.



                                           10
56.     Furthermore, the project has significantly contributed to the reorganization and
strengthening of the DMM in the following manner:
     the maritime investigation office (MIO) which is a key element of the institutional
        chain of the maritime sub-sector has been equipped and made functional by the
        project.
     the project has financed the training of 16 DMM staff in key specialized areas
        such as the enforcement of IMO and ISPS codes and standards.

53.     Thanks to the project, two DMM staff where awarded a master’s degree in
Management of Maritime Affairs. Finally, the project has equipped DMM’s Accident
Investigation Unit with state of the art technology.

(iii) Objective 3: Strengthen institutional capacity and management of the aviation
sub-sector.

57.    The rating is highly satisfactory for the following reasons.

58.     First, the project introduced modern best-practice legislation and regulation in the
Mauritanian aviation sector with the revision of the outdated civil aviation code. The
legislative part of the revised code was adopted on February 27, 2011 by law no 20-2011
while the regulatory part was adopted by the council of ministers on March 31, 2011 by
decree no 092-2011.

59.     The revised code has enabled ANAC to take corrective measures regarding the
deficiencies identified in previous International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)
safety audits. In terms of aviation security, the Government implemented a plan of action
for the improvement of ICAO compliance which consisted in: the adoption of a National
Security Plan, the acquisition of security equipment, and the capacity building of security
actors. As a result, further to an ICAO audit held in April 2012, Mauritania civil aviation
safety compliance rate improved from 33 percent in 2008 to 70 percent in 2012.
Furthermore, thanks to the new code, ANAC was finally able to certify the national
airline company, which was not feasible in the past because of the outdated civil aviation
code.

60.     As a result, Mauritania now ranks number seven among African countries and
first in the African Air Navigation Safety Agency (ASECNA) group regarding civil
aviation safety compliance.

61.     Secondly, thanks to a study financed by the project, the MET has a Master plan
for the development of Mauritanian Airports, including a detailed development plan for
the Nouakchott international airport. These are key planning tools that are enabling the
MET to better prioritize and sequence investments within the sub-sector. For instance,
recent investments by GIRM in the regional airport in Atar were planned and designed as
per the new Master plan.




                                            11
(iv) Objective 4: Strengthen the sector coordination capacity of the Ministry of
Equipment and Transport (MET).

62.    The rating is satisfactory for the following reasons.

63.     Thanks to support from the project, the MET was able to prepare and endorse a
Transport Sector Strategy (TSS) and a Letter of Sector Policy (LSP). The LSP was
approved by the council of Ministers on September 13, 2012. The TSS and the LSP have
set the stage for ensuring improvement and sustained efficiency in the provision of
transport infrastructure and services. This is likely to help reinforce the sector’s impact on
the national economy and its support to key growth enabling sectors.

64.     MET’s overall knowledge of the transport sector has been improved thanks to key
studies conducted under the project. MET is now cognizant of the externalities of urban
transport in Nouakchott and the related costs to the economy (see box 2 for more details).
Furthermore, the study on unit cost of civil works will help ensure better planning and
appraisal of transport related works.

                        Box 2. Externalities of Nouakchott Urban Transport
 Thanks to a study financed by the project, the GIRM and the Nouakchott Metropolitan
 Area (CUN) are now cognizant of the externalities costs of the city’s urban transport
 system in terms of economic cost of: traffic accidents; air pollution; noise pollution;
 traffic congestion; and internal dysfunctions of mass transport in Nouakchott. The
 study revealed that overall transport sector costs was MRO 167 billion in 2012
 (US$560 million) and represented 17 percent of GDP, and that economic cost of
 externalities of Nouakchott urban transport was estimated at MRO 40 billion (US$130
 million) which represents 4 percent of GDP. The most costly item was vehicle
 operating costs which accounted for about 56 percent of the total. This is mainly
 because of the ageing urban transport fleet (82 percent of the fleet has more than 10
 years). The study has defined a detailed action plan to mitigate the identified
 externalities.


3.3 Efficiency

65.     The project contributed to achieving efficiency gains in the following areas: (i)
efficiency improvements in the legal and regulatory frameworks of civil aviation and
maritime subsectors seen in modern civil aviation and maritime codes; (ii) improvement
in the monitoring and evaluation of road safety with the availability of a computerized
road accident database at DGTT; and (iii) improvement in overall knowledge of the
sector: knowledge of the externalities of urban transport and its costs to the economy, and
better grasp on costs of civil works thanks to a comprehensive study on unit prices of
civil works.

66.    Furthermore, with the capacity building of DEPC, efficiency increases have been
achieved in the overall coordination of the transport sector. MET now has a



                                             12
comprehensive sector-wide computer-based monitoring and evaluation framework which
provides real time information on project status and thus facilitates decision-making.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

67.    The rating is satisfactory for the following reasons

68.     The project has laid a strong foundation for the management and sustainability of
the transport sector. It has strengthened the capacity of the transport sector directorates
and agencies, and improved prospects for greater accountability and transparency. The
project outcome is still fully relevant to current World Bank and GIRM strategy and
sector efficiency has been sustainably improved.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Not Applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

69.     The long-term capacity improvement of the transport directorates and structures
strengthened under the project, particularly the recently created DEPC, is likely to be
sustained. The legislative framework that has been created for the aviation and maritime
subsectors is unlikely to change in the near future.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

70.     First, the project helped prevent the blacklisting of Nouakchott International
Airport by the EU in 2007, on the grounds of poor condition of its runway. Funds from
the Project’s Preparation Advance (PPA) to the tune of US$200,000 were mobilized to
finance preliminary and detailed engineering study for the rehabilitation of the runway of
Nouakchott International Airport. This has allowed the GIRM to fund the civil works
(estimated at US$8.5 million) for the rehabilitation of the runway and thus avoided
blacklisting of its main airport.

71.      Secondly, subsequent to the establishment of the STP by the GIRM in 2010, (cf.
paragraph 32), the project facilitated a sharing of experience between the new company,
and the existing public bus companies in Senegal and Cote d’Ivoire. This has eased the
operationalization of the newly created STP, positive impacts of which are already being
felt by the public transport users in the cities of Nouakchott and Nouadhibou.

72.     Finally, thanks to a study financed by the project, Nouadhibou Port has improved
its information system. Furthermore, the ports of Nouakchott and Nouadhibou have now




                                            13
harmonized their information systems for basic data, under the coordination and technical
oversight of Maritime Affairs Studies and Coordination Unit (CECAM).



3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

73.   This is a core ICR which does not require a beneficiary survey/stakeholder
workshop.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

66.        The rating is moderate for the following reasons.

74.     The project has put in place the right elements of reform: a relevant transport LSP
coupled with a transport sector strategy, a National Road Safety Strategy, a modern civil
aviation code, a road safety strategy at par with international standards, and a revised
maritime code consistent with the latest IMO requirements.

75.     The institutional reforms supported by the project have been enacted by decrees
and are likely to be sustained. Improved working conditions at the transport agencies
particularly the acquisition of computer equipment, modernized administration, and
rehabilitated office facilities will help to retain the staff that has been trained under the
project.

76.      The GIRM is taking the appropriate measures towards the sustainability of
institutional gains in the civil aviation sector. More specifically, the GIRM adopted a
decree in 2011 to scale up the resources of ANAC which are now estimated at US$5.1
million compared to US$2.5 million in 2010. About 80 percent 5 of ANAC’s budget
comes from aviation related taxes. The fact that 10 percent of that budget is earmarked
for security will enable ANAC to maintain and renew airport security equipment in view
of sustaining gains in ICAO compliance.

77.     With regards to road safety, although a strong partnership was establish between
the GIRM, NGOs and other actors of road safety, continuation of sensitization activities
will not be sustainable unless its financing is borne by the private sector, in particular the
insurance companies which have a vested interest in improved road safety. For instance,
the monthly live road safety show on National Television funded for one year by DGTT
(featuring all actors of road safety including police officers, drivers, etc.) will need to be
sustained in order to maintain the public’s interest in road safety issues.




5
    There is a 20 percent subsidy from the National budget which will gradually decrease.




                                                      14
78.     The main risk to the sustainability of capacity gains in the maritime sub-sector is
the diffused institutional setting with actors from two separate ministries. In such a
context, effective coordination of maritime activities and full enforcement of the new
maritime code will be difficult to maintain.

79.     Finally, it would be unrealistic to assume that the new tools and ways of doing
things, as brought about by the reforms, will be fully assimilated at once. Although the
GIRM has expressed its firm commitment to sustaining such reforms, it will actually
depend on the effective assimilation of sectoral planning tools by the DEPC, and the sub-
sectoral agencies and directorates involved in transport.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

80.    Rating is satisfactory for the following reasons.

81.      As mentioned above, the project design was relevant, appropriate and responsive
to the client’s needs. Furthermore, the World Bank was proactive in working with the
GIRM to first prepare a Technical Assistance project with a specific focus on
strengthening management capacity, reviewing sector priorities, and implementing policy
and institutional reforms, which were critical prior to considering any major investment
in the transport sector.

(b) Quality of Supervision

82.    Rating is satisfactory for the following reasons.

83.    First, despite the delay in making the project effective, all project activities were
more or less completed by the scheduled project completion date.

84.     Second, the World Bank allocated adequate resources to support the
implementation of this technical assistance project. The proximity of task-team members
(based in Senegal and Ivory Coast) allowed for the participation and input by the World
Bank in the presentation of key studies and capacity building activities. Furthermore, the
GIRM was appreciative of the continuous technical advice provided by the World Bank
throughout project implementation in complex areas of reform in the transport sector.
Finally, the World Bank’s ability to convene worldwide expertise on transport sector
reform/institutional issues was key to ensure the implementation of all project activities.

85.    Project implementation progress was adequately reported and legal covenants
were monitored and enforced. Furthermore, key implementation issues were identified,
assessed and resolved in a timely manner. The MTR was a positive milestone, as it gave a




                                            15
new impulse to the project which by then had adopted an action plan aimed at recovering
most of its initial implementation lag.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

86.     Rating is satisfactory for the following reasons.

87.     Despite the major delays in project effectiveness due to ‘force majeure’ causes, all
of the project activities were completed by the original closing date of the project. That is
the combined result of good project design, proactive implementation support by the
project team and strong ownership by GIRM. Furthermore, the project achieved its
envisaged objective of improving the management of the transport sector. Finally, during
preparation, the World Bank proactively advised the GIRM to tackle sector institutional
issues in the form of dedicated TA prior to engaging in large investment operations.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

88.     Rating is satisfactory for the following reasons.

89.     The GIRM’s performance during the identification and preparation phases of the
project was satisfactory. The sector diagnosis was extensive and the envisaged policies
and reforms were adequate and consistent with international best-practice.

90.     GIRM’s commitment to the implementation of the project was sustained and the
coordination and partnership with stakeholders, donors and the World Bank was
excellent. After the lifting of suspension, the GIRM was proactive in meeting the
conditions of effectiveness of the FA within the 90-day effectiveness deadline.
Furthermore, the GIRM complied with all the covenants/commitments of the FA. By
project closing, all legal, regulatory, and technical documents were duly approved and
enacted at the relevant level either by the council of ministries or by parliament. This is
the direct result of the high-level follow up on the approval process of key reforms and
codes by the GIRM.

91.     The GIRM contributed significantly more funds to the project than was initially
agreed in the FA. By project closing, GIRM’s actual counterpart funding that was
estimated at US$4.1 million, largely exceeded 6 its initial commitment of US$1.0 million.
Furthermore, the GIRM has expressed its commitment to pursue project activities beyond
the closing date.


6
  The equipment of Nouakchott’s main intersections in traffic signals and lights by the GIRM was an
agreement in the FA of the project. GIRM has made an investment greater than what was agreed in the FA
by equipping more intersections than expected on the basis of a partnership with an operator who is
authorized to charge a small fee on car insurance bills.



                                                 16
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

92.    Rating is satisfactory for the following reasons.

93.    As the project coordination unit, the DEPC worked closely with the Government
and the Bank team to push the project forward and to resolve the issues that arose
throughout the life of the project. It strived to maintain good relations with other agencies
and exercised acceptable fiduciary management, as well as, sound reporting.

94.     The other agencies involved in project implementation, such as DGTT, DMM,
CECAM, and ANAC, after making use of the training, equipment and technical advisory
services and studies provided by the project were able to take on and execute their
mandates.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

95.    Rating is satisfactory for the following reasons.

96.     The Borrower’s commitment to the reform agenda of the transport sector
remained unchanged despite the interruption in project implementation. The dialogue
between the GIRM and the World Bank was smooth and constructive throughout the
implementation of the project. At the project level, the GIRM maintained an adequate
staffing of DEPC and fostered ownership of the reform agenda by the MET and the
executing agencies.

6. Lessons Learned

97.     Early identification of reform champions within Government structures. Early
involvement, since project preparation, and effective participation of staff from both
central government and decentralized structures was essential to project ownership and
an engine for success of project implementation. At the same time, it has laid the ground
for sustainability of the projects achievements.

98.     Realistic project objectives. The project objectives were realistic and based on
sectoral objectives that were clearly identified through prior analytical sector work. This
resulted in a good project design, including a clear results framework and ownership by
the beneficiaries. In addition, the appropriate assessment of the project resulted in
optimally defined components/activities within limited available resources.

99.   Setting up adequate structures to ensure both momentum and sustainability of
reform agenda. In order to ensure sustainability and consolidation of knowledge
improvement and capacity strengthening in urban transport, the establishment of an




                                             17
institution 7 tasked with the coordination of urban transport policies in Nouakchott should
be considered. The new institution would feature representatives from central and local
government, as well as, representatives of the private sector.

100. Strong government ownership of reform agenda in the transport sector. The
fact that counterpart funds provided by GIRM exceeded by far what was initially agreed,
largely contributed to the successful implementation of the project. This is a clear sign of
GIRM’s strong ownership of the project and its commitment to sustaining the reforms of
the transport sector.

101. Strong cooperation with EU/development partners to ensure alignment and
synergies in the transport sector. Strong cooperation between the Bank and the EU, the
two main development partners involved in the transport sector in Mauritania, have been
important factors in achieving the intended outcome of TSIDTAP. The EU and the Bank
remained jointly committed to the reform agenda that emerged from the sector diagnostic
studies and strategies performed between 2004 and 2007 which framed the design of the
project. Furthermore, through its support of the transport sector as a whole, the EU
remained actively involved in the capacity strengthening of the sector in a way that is
perfectly complementary with the interventions of TSIDTAP.

102. Adequate implementation time frame for all activities to absorb ‘force majeure’
events. The risk of ‘force majeure’ events must be taken into account while allocating the
projects implementation time frame, especially in fragile areas.

103. When conditions are right, standalone TA loans should be considered to
modernize/reform the transport sector before engaging in major investment lending.
At the initial stage of a sector-wide reform, standalone TA operations are the best suited
alternative compared to more complex projects combining reforms and investments. The
complexity of sub-sector issues alone is a challenge to newly established/re-organized
entities. Once the new approaches to their mandate have been assimilated, those entities
are better poised to manage large projects.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



7
  This approach has proved to be effective in neighboring Senegal where the Conseil Exécutif des
Transport Urbains de Dakar (CETUD) was established to coordinate and regulate urban transport in the
city of Dakar.



                                                  18
                           Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
           Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                                    Appraisal
                                                         millions)
Institutional Support and Capacity
Building for the Land Transport             1.73              4.35                        251 8
Sub-sector
Support to Institutional and
Technical Capacity Building for
                                            1.12              0.91                         81
the Maritime Transport Sub-
sector
Support to Air Transport System
Reorganization and Technical                0.72              0.60                         83
Capacity building
Support to the Ministry's
Coordination role and Project               1.58              1.80                        114 9
Activities Coordination
              Total Baseline Cost           5.15              7.66                         149
Price Contingencies                         0.35              0.00                          0
               Total Project Costs          5.50              7.66                         139
Front-end fee PPF                            -                 -                            -
      Total Financing Required              5.50              7.66                         139


(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                           millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                     1.00        4.10        410
International Development
                                                              4.50            3.56              79
Association (IDA)




8
  GIRM’s actual counterpart funding for components 1 and 4 is estimated at US$4.1 million which largely
exceeds its initial commitment of US$1.0.

9
    Idem.




                                                  19
                                    Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Institutional Support and                                         Outputs
Capacity-Building for Land Transport Sub-
sector
(i) Update of the National Road Safety Strategy.          (i) A modern Road Safety Strategy (RSS),
                                                          consistent with international standards and best
                                                          practices was defined further to broad consultations
                                                          with all relevant stakeholders. The strategy was
                                                          approved     by     the   National    transportation
                                                          Commission on May 30, 2012 and adopted by the
                                                          council of ministers on August 04, 2012.

(ii) Organization of a Road Safety awareness campaign (ii) A Road Safety awareness campaign was held in
in Nouakchott.                                        Nouakchott between April and June 2012, under the
                                                      leadership of the Directorate of Road Safety (DSR)
                                                      with the support of an international consultant, and
                                                      NGOs.

(iii) Situation assessment and implementation of a road (iii) Study completed. A road accident database is
safety management system, including a pilot M&E available and the road accident analysis system is
system for accidents in Nouakchott.                     functional.

(iv) Preparation and printing of a Road Safety Manual (iv) An illustrated road safety manual for children
for the introduction of Road Prevention in Schools.   has been produced and 10,000 copies printed. The
                                                      manual has been introduced as a pilot initiative of
                                                      the Ministry of Education (ME) in 8 primary
                                                      schools in Nouakchott and 3 schools in Nouadhibou
                                                      for the 2012-13 academic year.

(v) Construction of a road education track for            (v) Works are financed by the GIRM and are
elementary school students.                               ongoing.

(vi) Installation of road signs and traffic signals for main (vi) Completed. All main intersections have been
intersections in the city of Nouakchott.                     equipped with signage and traffic light which are
                                                             functional.

(vii) Editing and dissemination of the updated highway (vii) Highway code updated for the first time in 40
code.                                                  years. It has been edited and disseminated. This has
                                                       resulted in significant improvement of drivers’
                                                       license and vehicle registration operations.

(viii) Study on the cost of externalities of Nouakchott (viii) Study is satisfactorily completed. The main
Urban Transport.                                        externalities of the Urban Transport System have
                                                        been evaluated.
Component 2: Support to Institutional and                                     Outputs
Technical Capacity-Building for the Maritime
Transport Sub-sector
(i) Update of the Merchant Shipping Code and (i) The revised maritime code as per IMO
Regulations.                                 standards was adopted by the council of


                                                     20
                                                              ministers on November 29, 2012.

(ii) Support to the reorganization and capacity building
of DMM
(a) Capacity building for the enforcement of (a) The project has financed the training of 16
international conventions.                               DMM staff in key specialized areas such as the
                                                         enforcement of IMO and ISPS codes and standards.

(b) Master’s degree in the area of management of (b) Two DMM staff were awarded a Master’s
maritime affairs for two DMM staff.              degree in Management of Maritime Affairs. They
                                                 are currently working at DMM.

(c) Capacity building on maritime areas and seafarers.        (c) Not completed due to a lack of responses to the
                                                              tender.

(iii) Development of an information system for the Port (iii) Study completed.
of Nouadhibou.

(iv) Support to the Maritime Investigation Office (MIO) (iv) Office has been rehabilitated by GIRM.
within DMM.                                             Computer and technical equipment (electronic
                                                        navigational chart) purchased by the project and
                                                        functional.
Component 3: Support to Air Transport System                                 Outputs
Reorganization and Technical Capacity-
Building
(i) Support to the revision of the outdated civil aviation (i) Study Completed. The legislative part of the
code.                                                      revised code was adopted on February 27, 2011 by
                                                           law no 20-2011 while the regulatory part was
                                                           adopted by the council of ministers on March 31,
                                                           2011 by decree no 092-2011.

(ii) Study on Nouakchott Airport Development (ii) Master plan for the development of Mauritanian
perspectives and master plan for Mauritanian airports. Airports completed, including a detailed
                                                       development plan for the Nouakchott international
                                                       airport.
Component 4: Support to the Ministry’s                                     Outputs
Coordination Role and Project Activities
Coordination
(i) Support for the preparation of a Transport Sector (i) Study completed. TSS and LSP finalized. The
Strategy and a Letter of Sector Policy.               LSP was approved by the council of Ministers on
                                                      September 13, 2012.

(ii) Development of price indexes and series to provide (ii) Study completed.
references for price revision in road construction.

(iii) Technical Assistance for the design and (iii) DEPC has been equipped with a sector-wide
implementation of a results-monitoring framework. M&E tool which is updated and utilized on a regular
                                                  basis.

(iv) Financial audits.                                        (iv) Completed.


                                                         21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


                 (NA)




                  22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Ibou Diouf                 Sr Transport. Spec.              AFTTR            TTL
Jean-Francois Marteau      Sr Transport. Spec.               ECSS5
Brahim Ould Abdelwedoud    Sr Urban Spec.                   AFTU2
Demba Balde                Senior Social Development Spec   AFTCS
L. Rodrigue Djahlin        Operations Officer               CAFSB
Felly Akiiki Kaboyo        Operations Analyst               AFTTR
Alain L. Labeau            Consultant                        SASFP
Francois Lavoue            Temporary                        AFTTR
Jean-Francois Marteau      Sr Transport. Spec.               ECSS5
Moustapha Ould El Bechir   Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPE
Pierre A. Pozzo di Borgo   Principal Investment Officer      CN2SI
Seynabou Thiaw Seye        Program Assistant                 AFCF1
Ntombie Z. Siwale          Senior Program Assistant         AFTTR
Maimouna Toure             Team Assistant                   AFMMR
Supervision/ICR
Ibou Diouf                 Sr Transport. Spec.              AFTTR          TTL
Papa Mamadou Fall          Transport Specialist             AFTTR      ICR TL/Author
Brahim Ould Abdelwedoud    Sr Urban Spec.                   AFTU2
Saidou Diop                Sr Financial Management Spec.    AFTMW
Maimouna Mbow Fam          Sr Financial Management Spec.    AFTMW
Maimouna Toure             Team Assistant                   AFMMR
Felly Akiiki Kaboyo        Operations Analyst               AFTTR
Alain L. Labeau            Consultant                        SASFP
Jean-Francois Marteau      Sr Transport. Spec.               ECSS5
Moustapha Ould El Bechir   Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPE
Mohamed El H. Hendah       Procurement Specialist           AFTPE
Ntombie Z. Siwale          Senior Program Assistant         AFTTR

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                                                  53.17
  FY06                                                                  19.83
  FY07                                                                  62.20
  FY08                                                                 126.35
                           Total:                                      261.55



                                          23
Supervision/ICR
 FY09                            16.16
 FY10                            35.59
 FY11                            71.99
 FY12                            47.75
 FY13                            14.61
                  Total:        186.10




                           24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


               (NA)




                25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


                      (NA)




                      26
         Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Project execution

1.      The Financing Agreement was signed one year after project approval on October
1, 2009. It became effective on December 29, 2009. This slippage is explained by the
fact that the country was passing through a transition period following the institutional
change of August, 6 2008. Hence, the initial implementation timeframe was shortened
from 3.5 to 2.9 years. The main factors that positively influenced the implementation of
the project were:

     •    The realization of the different conditions required in the Loan Agreement in the
          stipulated time frame for its implementation,
     •    The participative approach during the preparation of the Project that enabled the
          Executing Agencies to own their components,
     •    The improvement of the sector knowledge, thanks to the reviews realized under
          WB and EU financing,
     •    The training of 31 executives from road, air and sea sub-sectors,
     •    The establishment of an M&E framework of the sector at DEPC level,
     •    The clarity and accuracy of indicators to measure project performance.

2.        The weaknesses identified relate to:

     •    The one year delay in the implementation of the project due to the country’s
          specific context,
     •    The delays in the procurement process,
     •    Delays in the treatment of reports by the Executing Agencies,
     •    The institutional instability of the maritime sub-sector,
     •    The lack of experience of the structures responsible for the physical execution of
          the project.

Results and performances

3.        The most significant impacts of the Project are given below:

4.     Declaration of sector policy. The objective of the LSP was to promote a suitable
environment for the improvement of infrastructures and services quality and to reinforce
the support the sector brings to the rest of the economy.

5.      Road safety strategy. Besides the elaboration of the National Road Safety
Strategy, the project has: (i) carried out education, prevention and awareness campaign
for road users, (ii) put in place a system for road accidents data collection and processing,
(iii) integrated road prevention program in the school curriculum thanks to the
elaboration of school manual edited and printed in 10,000 copies and (iv) defined the
arrangement and equipment works of an education track.



                                                 27
6.      Moreover, the Project has printed the Road Code in 5,000 copies which were
distributed in driving schools. It is important that the drivers be sensitized on the Code
and mostly trained adequately so that they develop safe and respectful driving attitude
towards other road users.

7.      Urban transport strategy. The rapid spatial extension of Nouakchott and the
growth of its population create mobility problems which are more and more acute. The
creation of the Public Transports Company (mixed Economy Company) has brought a
great relief to the inhabitants of the city of Nouakchott. The setup of this company is an
anticipation of the urban transport strategy which will encourage private sector
involvement in an area which is perceived as risky.

8.      Sea transport Code and regulations. Until recently, the activities related to
Merchant Marine were governed by law n° 95 - 009 of January 31st, 1995. For the
enforcement of this law, many decrees were taken by different departments in charge of
the sub-sector; hence a dispersion prejudicial to a good enforcement of maritime
regulation. The revised Merchant Marine Code has resolved this situation by adopting a
modern legal and regulatory framework.

9.     Civil Aviation Code. The new Civil Aviation Code is consistent with the
provisions of the Chicago Convention and its Appendices. It has allowed to correct the
numerous defaults revealed by ICAO audits carried out in Mauritania. Moreover, this
Code allowed the certification of the Mauritania Airlines Company.

Sustainability of Results

10.     The participative approach implemented by TSIDTAP represents in itself a
sustainability factor. It encouraged involvement of beneficiaries in the implementation of
the project and ensured alignment of project objectives with the needs of the beneficiaries
in terms of institutional support.

11.     The best guarantee for the sustainability of the project’s results is the highest
priority given by the Government to promote the transport sector as an instrument for
economic growth and for poverty alleviation. This is fully reflected in the various
medium and long terms strategies and particularly the CSLP for the period 2011 - 2015.

Performances of the Bank, the Borrower and the Executing Agencies

Performances of the Bank

12.    Since the normalization of the institutional life with the election of the President
on 18th July 2009, a multidisciplinary mission of the Bank visited Mauritania from 27th
September to 02nd October 2009, to reengage the dialogue with the Government and to
agree on a time table for signing the Loan Agreement of TSIDTAP.




                                            28
13.     The financing of the project by the Bank is timely, for it supported the
Government in its strategy for the sector, through institutional capacities building of the
structures responsible for road, sea and air transport.

14.     The support of the Bank is globally satisfactory. The time frames for non-
objection notices were about one week. At least 10 supervision missions were organized,
that is an average of at least 3 missions per year, throughout the life of the project.
Considering the multidisciplinary character of the project, the composition of the
supervision missions in terms of profiles was adequate.

15.      According to the Executing Agencies, the constructive recommendations and
counsels given by the Bank’s supervision missions allowed the reformulation of some
activities in order to ensure a successful implementation of the project.

16.    The constructive recommendations of the missions and the permanent contact
between the project team and the bank enabled to improve notably the project
performance.

17.    In conclusion, the performance of the Bank is considered satisfactory.

Performances of the Borrower

18.     The Borrower met the conditions of effectiveness within the 90 days limit at the
satisfaction of the bank: (i) the adoption of the Project Execution Manual, (ii) the
recruitment of the Project Coordinating Team, and (iii) the opening of an account for the
project and the payment into said account of the initial deposit of an amount equal to the
exchange value of US$100,000.

19.     In accordance with appendix 2 «project execution» of the Loan Agreement,
within the MET, the Permanent Secretary took charge of the strategic orientation and the
supervision of the whole project. To this effect, the Permanent Secretary met with the
Project Coordinating Team and the Executing Agencies at least once per semester to
review the progress of the project execution.

20.     During the execution of the project, there was a good stability at the level of the
Project Coordinator. However, the presence of enough personnel was not fully respected
since three months after the enforcement of the Loan Agreement, the position of
Administration and Finance Officer remained vacant until September 2011.

21.    The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was fruitful and without
clashes. The Borrower paid special attention to all project components and activities
which were globally executed despite the delays incurred.

Performances of Executing Agencies




                                            29
22.     The DEPC played its role of monitoring and coordination of the project activities
without interfering in the tasks of the Executing Agencies despite the reduced number of
staff. Generally, one can assert that DEPC and the Executing Agencies played their role
in a satisfactory way in the management of the various components of the project.
ANAC’s performance was especially satisfactory.

Lessons derived

23.     The objectives of the project were realistic and based upon clearly identified
global sector objectives. This resulted in an optimal formulation of the project which was
results oriented, and was owned by the beneficiaries. In addition, the project benefitted
from a pertinent assessment that enabled to define the project components and activities
in an optimal way. The major lessons derived are the following:

   •   The effective and pro-active participation of central and decentralized structures
       of the sector in project implementation is the driving force for the project success
       and durability,
   •   The availability of a manual of procedures and the strengthening of the capacities
       of project management staff at the startup of a project speeds up the
       implementation of the project activities and facilitates the audit of accounts,
   •   Slowness of administrative procedures for appropriating legislative and regulatory
       laws.




                                           30
      Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Results and performances

1. The project was pertinent and the indicators have been achieved. The inter-donor
dialogue is continuous and has proven effective in the past in pushing the Government
towards reform; the respective projects of the World Bank and the EU in the transport
sector are complementary and synergistic.

Sustainability of Results

2. In view of the current situation in the administration, the impact and the durability of
the project could be compromised. To illustrate this point, here's a few examples:
- Letter of sector policy: the document is very well drafted and has been approved; it
addresses the key issues that the administration must focus on to develop the sector.
However, to this day, it seems that the Ministry of transportation has not used it as a
strategic document to plan their activity, and significant problems with short deadlines
have yet to be tackled with. For instance, the road maintenance resources will be reduced
by half by 2015 (end of SYSMIN funding) and no realistic alternative has been set up as
of January 2013. Other actions have been taken that were not included in the letter of
sector policy, such as the creation of the regulation authority, and a national public
transportation company.
- Merchant shipping code: the code has been approved by the Council of Ministers and
has yet to be approved by the Parliament to be applied. It is uncertain to what extent the
government has the capacity to enforce its application, and there's a clear window of
opportunity to take advantage of the legal void that has been used- in Nouadhibou, 17
new wrecks have appeared in June 2012.
- Capacity building in the administration: the changes of human resources in management
positions and the lack of a strong middle management generation, weakens the durability
of these interventions.

3. The EU has one project that is in its implementation phase and another one in the
pipeline, and these address some of the durability issues. For instance, a few activities
follow on the work done on road safety, and will use the statistics set up by the PATRIST.
However, the technical partnership of the WB-EU in the sectoral dialogue must be
continued and strengthened to allow true appropriation of these results. A continued
involvement of the WB in the sector would be welcomed by the EU.




                                            31
                 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.    Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, FY08-11), Report No. 39532-MR, June
      14, 2007
2.    Financing Agreement (TSIDTAP), May 13, 2009
3.    Mid-Term Review Report
4.    Harmonized Evaluation Criteria for ICR and OED Evaluations
5.    Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit for Mauritania for a
      Transport Sector Institutional Development and Technical Assistance Project,
      July 08, 2008
6.    PATRIST: Rapport d’achèvement du Gouvernement, Septembre 2012
7.    Cadre Stratégique de Lutte contre la Pauvreté-seconde version (CSLP-2)
      (Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper)
8.    Mauritania Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-2, 2006-10)
9.    Multimodal Transport Strategy study report (February 2007)
10.   National Road Safety Strategy and Action Plan for 2006-10 (Ministry of
      Equipment and Road Transport Strategy Study report (February 2007)
11.   Aide-memoires and Progress Reports




                                     32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33445R


                                                                                       M A U R I TA N I A
                                                          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                             MAIN ROADS

                                                          REGION CAPITALS                                                                                       RAILROADS

                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                      REGION BOUNDARIES

                                                          RIVERS                                                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                                              15W                                                                                       10W                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                     MO RO CCO
                                                                                                                                                                                          0       50    100      150    200 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                           o
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                         indout
                                                                                                                                                                        Tindout
                                                                                                                                                                                          0            50         100       150 Miles
                               MAURITANIA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                ALGERIA
                                                                                                                                                 Aïn
                                                                                                                                                 Aïn
                                                                                                                                                                            i
                                                                                                                                                                        t t
                                                                                                                                                     Tili
                                                                                                                                                 Ben Tili

                                                                                       To
                                                                                        o
                                                                                                                                                                    e
                                                                                     Bu Craa
                                                                                                                                                                Y
                                                                                                                    Moghreï
                                                                                                                Bir Moghreïn
                                                                                                                    Moghreïn
25N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           25N
                                                         WESTERN
                                                                                                                                          TIRIS
                                                         SAHARA
      AT LAN T IC                                                                                                                       ZEMMOUR
       OC E AN                                                                                                                i
                                                                                                                     a m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 aoudenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Taoudenni
                                                                                                                 m
                                                                                                         m
                                                                                               H
                                                                                                    a                      S a h a r a
                                                                                         Zouérat
                                                                                         Zoué
                                                                                         Zouérat
                                                                         Fderik
                                                                                     Kediet Ijill                             D e s e r t
                                                                                      (915 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                              f
             To
              o                                                                                                                                                                           u
         Bir Gandús
             Gand
                                                                                                                                  El Moue
                                                                                                                                     Moueï
                                                                                                                                     Moueïla
                                                                                                                                         ïla                                        j o
                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                         l                                                  MALI
                                                 i                            Choum                                                                                 E
                                              tou
          Nouadhibou
                                                                                                                         n e
                                          A




                                                                                                                Oudâ
                                                                                                                Oudâne
                                                                                                                Oudâne
                                    Khatt




         DAKHLET                                                       Atar                                        u r aA D               RAR
                                                                                            Chinguetti           O
      NOUADHIBOU
                               Châmi
                               Châ
                               Châmi                                                                                                                                         E l
20N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20N
                              INCHIRI                                                                                                                                                  M r
                                                          Akjoujt                                                                                                                          e y
                                                                                                                                                                                               y
                                                                                                                                                                                                            é
                              Bôu
                              B   Rje
                                  Rjeïmât
                                     ïmât
                               ôu Rjeï

                                                                                                                         TA G A N T                                             HODH ECH
                                                                                                                  Tidjikdja
                                                                                                                  Tidjikdja                        Tichit
                                                                                                                                                   Tichit
                                                     a
                                            r
                                                z                                                                                                                               CHARGUI
      NOUAKCHOTT                        a       TRARZA
                                    r                                   Moudj
                                                                        Moudjé
                                                                             éria
                                                                        Moudjéria
                                T       Boutilimit
               Tiguent                                       BRAKNA                                                               Tamchaket
                                                                                                                                  Tamchaket                                                       Qualâta
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Qualâta
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Qualâ
                                                                Aleg
                                                                                                                                                 Ayo
                                                                                                                                                   yoû
                                                                                                                                                 Ayoûnûn                                                                    o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                  Rosso
                                                                                      ASSABA                                                     el ’Atroûs
                                                                                                                                                     Atroû
                                                                                                                                                    ’Atroûs                                                              ombouctou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tombouctou
                                                           Bogué
                                                           Bogué                                    Kiffa
                                                                                                    Kiffa                                                                                     Nema
                                                                                                                              HODH EL
                       To
                        o
                                                                       Kaedi         Mbout                                                                  Timbédra
                                                                                                                                                             imbé
                                                                                                                                                            Timb édra
                      Dakar                                                                                                   GHARBI
                                                                                                                Kankossa                  u                                                       Bassikounou
                                                                                                                                        do
                                                         GORGOL
                                                                                                                                    a




                                                                                   Maghama
                                                                                                                                  Ou




                                                                                    Sélibaby
                                                                                    Sélibaby
                                                                         Sé




                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                  o                                   o
                                                                                                                                                     To                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                       To                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                    r a k ora
                                                                              né




                                                                               al                               Kayes                                                                 Nara                             Nampala
15N
              SENEGAL                                                                                                                          Nioro du Sahel                                                                                 15N
                                                                              g




                                                           GUIDIMAKA                  To
                                                                                       o
                                                                                     Nayé
                                                                                     Nay
                                                                                                    Ka
                                                                                                                                                                    MALI
                                              15W                                                                                       10W                                                                                  5W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AUGUST 2012
