Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2412-UNI
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
September 10, 1979
Urban Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =  NO.65
N1.00          =  US$1.54
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  =    3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km)             =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)               =    10,000 square meters (sq. m.)
1 hectare (ha)               =    2.47 acres (a)
1 liter (1)     3            =    0.26 US gallon (gal)
1 cubic meter (m )           =    1,000 liters of 264 US gallons
1 lcd                        =     1 liter per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS /ACRONYMS
BSG       -    Bauchi State Government
BSDB      -    Bauchi State Development Board
BSWB      -    Bauchi State Water Board
CBN       -    Central Bank of Nigeria
CDC       -    Commonwealth Development Corporation
FHA       -    Federal Housing Authority
FMG       -    Federal Military Government
FMF       -    Federal Ministry of Finance
FMHUDE    -    Federal Ministry of Housing, Urban Development
and Environment
FMWH      -    Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
FMBN      -    Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
FESTAC    -    Festival of Black Arts and Culture
LGA       -    Local Government Authority
MOH       -    Ministry of Health
NBS       -    Nigeria Building Society
NEPA      -    Nigerian Electric Power Authority
PDD       -    Project Development Department
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND .............................................                    1
A.  Urbanization Trends  ......................................                   1
B.  Urban Services and Employment ................ .          ........            1
C.  Managing Urban Growth ....................................                    4
D.  The Search for Solutions ......            .....................              9
E.  The Project Towns:   Bauchi and Gombe .....................                  11
II. THE PROJECT..12
I. TEPOET..................................................                         1
A.  Objectives  .*......... .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. ... .. . . *. .. .. .. ..  .  12
B.  Main Features .............................................                  13
C.  Detailed Description ......................... .......... .                  14
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .....................              . ..........    25
A.  Cost Estimates ......        ..................      ..................      25
B.  Financing Plan ....... ..............              .....................     28
C.  Procurement and Disbursements ............          ..      ..............   32
D.  Accounts, Audit, and Reporting Requirements ..o                 ...........    33
IV.  COST RECOVERY AND FINANCIAL IMPACT ........   o   ................                34
A.  Cost Recovery and Pricing ......... ...........  .............               34
B.  Financial Impact on FMBN ....................  ...........                   38
C.  Affordability and Urban Poverty Impact                ................ oo.    39
V.  ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION .......              ..... o......    ......    40
A.   Institutional Responsibilities for Project Execution    .....    40
B.  Federal Ministry of Works and Housing  .......     oo .........    41
C.  Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria .....              ....................     41
D.  Bauchi State Development Board ..o               .......... o    .............  42
E.   Bauchi Local Government Authority .....             ...................    43
F.  Gombe Local Government Authority                 ........................    44
G.   Implementation .......................... o........... o..                  44
H.  Monitoring .... oo           ...................    ...................      45
I.  Supervision ...................            ...     ...................       45
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Nigeria in
December 1978. Mission members included Michael A. Cohen (Mission Leader),
Wouter A. Meijer, and Maurice Mould (World Bank), Lawrence Casazza, Chandra
Godavitarne, Leon Ploegaerts, and Gautam Sengupta (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                         Page No.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .................. ............   47
A.  Economic Evaluation ..............  ................ ....... .    47
B.    Project  Risks   .......... . ......  .. ........  ..  .  ..  .  ..  ..    .  49
VII. RECONMENDATIONS ......................................... *....    51
ANNEXES
1. Detailed Cost Estimates
2. Technical Assistance
3. Economic Evaluation: Cost and Benefit Streams
4. Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria:
Table 1:  Forecast Balance Sheets as at March 31, 1979-85
Table 2:  Financial Ratios and Other Indicators
Table 3:  Forecast Statements of Capital Operations
and Funds from 1979/80 Through 1984/85
Table 4:  Forecast Operations Statements 1979/80 Through 1984/85
Table 5:  Funds Flow -. Bauchi Branch
Table 6:  Bauchi State Development Board
Figure 1: Government Controls over Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
5. Affordability:
Figure 1: Bauchi Income Distribution of Project Beneficiaries
Table 1:  Affordability, Charges and Plot Options -
Sites and Services and Infill Areas
Table 2:  Affordability, Loan Options and Charges -
Upgrading Area
6. Plot Options:
Table 1:  Sites and Services Plot Options
Table 2:  Plot Development in Upgrading and Infill
7. Summary of Land Use
8. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
PHOTOGRAPHS
1. Typical Conditions in Makama (Bauchi)
2.  Typical Conditions in Bolari (Gombe)
MAPS
1.  IBRD 14154 - Location of Project Towns in Nigeria
2.  IBRD 14155 - Bauchi:  Location of Project Area; Infrastructure
3.  IBRD 14247 - Bauchi:  Residential Development
4.  IBRD 14219 - Bauchi:  Social Service Facilities; Roads
5.  IBRD 14156 - Bauchi:  Industrial Estate
6.  IBRD 14157 - Gombe:   Bolari Environmental Sanitation
SKETCH: Typical Basic Shelter



NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Urbanization Trends
1.01      Nigeria has the largest urban population in Africa, with an esti-
mated 24 million people living in towns with a population over 20,000, out
of a national population of about 80 million in 1978. Roughly a third of the
urban population, about 8 million persons, live in the 20 largest cities and
towns, including the Federal capital of Lagos with a population estimated to
be 3.5 million in 1976. The remaining two-thirds live in some 200 urban
centers with a population over 20,000 which are found throughout the country.
Despite the unreliability of most demographic statistics and the uncertainty
of the 1973 census findings, it is possible, however, to estimate population
growth on the basis of sample surveys conducted for other purposes. In con-
trast to an estimated annual national population growth rate of 2.5%, the
urban sector increased at an annual rate of about 7% between 1970 and 1975,
with existing large centers continuing to grow, and many previously small
centers rapidly doubling and tripling their size since 1975. The creation of
a Federal system of 12 states following the civil war and the 1976 addition
of 7 new states has stimulated the dispersion of urban population into the
new state capitals as well as to secondary centers within states (see IBRD
Map No. 14154).
1.02      Despite the recent rapid growth of urban centers, Nigeria has a
long history of urbanization with a well-developed system of cities resem-
bling that found in middle- and upper-income countries. Many towns in the
western and northern regions of the country were originally settled as early
as the seventeenth century. These towns, including well-known centers such
as Ibadan, Ife, and Kano were established as trading centers and headquarters
of tribal rulers. They became quite large, with Ibadan now reaching about
three million persons, but did not develop manufacturing activities before
this century. The resulting Nigeria urban population therefore includes not
only migrants attracted by employment opportunities, but many generations of
long-time urban residents. This is reflected in the large number of women
and children in the towns and a correspondingly high rate of natural increase.
Successive waves of migrants are easily absorbed into well-established urban
patterns of social and economic activity.
B. Urban Services and Employment
1.03      The rapid growth of urban employment opportunities throughout
Nigeria, resulting from the 1970-76 period of high oil revenues and massive
public expenditures, has led to high urban income levels relative to returns
to agriculture and continuing large-scale migration to towns of all sizes.
High urban wages, resulting from a short supply of skilled labor in many



-2-
sectors, particularly construction, have been powerful incentives for poten-
tial migrants. Some 70% of the growth of newer centers, such as Lagos, is
attributable to migration and similarly high proportions of migration to
natural increase are found in other regions, particularly in the oil-producing
southern states. While the absolute size and relative proportions of the
formal and informal sectors within Nigerian towns has not been well docu-
mented, it is nonetheless clear that the industrial and commercial sectors,
both formal and informal, have until recently been expanding rapidly despite
supply constraints.
1.04      This high level of urban employment stands in marked contrast to
the urban employment situations elsewhere in Africa. While much of the
industrial and commercial growth has been concentrated in Lagos, this growth
is also found in cities and towns throughout the country. Western and
eastern cities house many small-scale enterprises and have rapidly absorbed
the increasing migrant population. A 1972 survey indicated that some 90,000
SSEs existed in the country, using a definition of under 10 workers. This
number has increased rapidly since 1972 as a result of multipliers generated
by oil revenues and expenditures on large public works projects. The dyna-
mism of the SSE sector has faced several constraints, including credit,
infrastructure, raw materials, training, and, for some products, markets.
The size of the Nigeria market, however, should be able to absorb easily
the production of the sector, subject to particular sectoral and regional
bottlenecks.
1.05      These growth trends have been significantly affected by large
deficits in the Government budget, substantial reduction of public expendi-
tures, import restrictions and resulting signs of increasing unemployment.
The growth patterns that took place during the described oil-boom period, in
spite of their urban impact, did not bring about a commensurate increase in
the provision of urban services. Nigerian towns have vast slum areas, uncon-
nected to existing infrastructure networks, including piped water, stormwater
drainage, sewage disposal, roads or transportation. The demand for housing
at all income levels is extreme, with landlords able to require five years
of annual rent before occupancy and to recover quickly their total capital
investment. The private construction sector has been largely occupied with
major public projects and most available building materials, whether imported
or local, have been devoted to major infrastructure works such as roads. The
capacity of the sector to expand has been constrained by its dependence on
foreign materials. Private individuals have used a variety of construction
and financing methods to build housing of different types, but these efforts
have fallen far short of demand in towns of all sizes throughout the country.
1.06      Housing conditions are well illustrated by a survey conducted in
1970-71 presented in Table I below:



-3-
Table I-1: HOUSING CONDITIONS IN SELECTED NIGERIAN TOWNS
% of       Average        % of         % of          % of
Households    No. of        Houses       Houses        Houses
Town          occupying      persons     with tap   with flush   with elec-
one room     per room       water       toilet        tricity
Lagos                 72.5          3.8          71.7         43.5          93.2
Port Harcourt         51.5          2.4          75.0         18.6          81.4
Benin                 48.0          2.2          24.9          4.0          59.3
Warri                 59.9          2.6          62.4         10.9          89.7
Kaduna                63.9          2.1          40.3         14.1          53.3
Kano                  69.1          2.4          26.1          1.8          69.1
Ilorin                23.9          1.6          30.7         10.3          28.4
Ibadan                47.3          2.1          33.4         25.2          56.1
Source:  Federal Republic of Nigeria, Federal Ministry of Economic Development,
Third National Development Plan 1975-80, p. 307.
These conditions can be expected to have deteriorated substantially since
1970-71 as a result of urban population increases and the lack of large-scale
public programs to improve service provision.
1.07      These problems are most acute in the case of Lagos, where urban
living conditions have deteriorated as the population increase has been
served on existing infrastructure networks and housing stock. The average
density of Metropolitan Lagos is 450 persons per hectare, with some 2,800
persons per hectare on parts of Lagos Island.  Less than 50% of the popula-
tion is now served by piped water.  Eighty-three percent of the population
is housed in "rooming houses" in neighborhoods where the average density is
600 persons per hectare.  Average traffic speed was less than 5 km per hour
on Lagos Island prior to recent openings of expressways. Vehicle use is
nonetheless still restricted to alternating days.  These conditions represent
extremely serious health hazards, including unsanitary conditions, low water
consumption, poor waste disposal, air and water pollution, and widespread
fires which cannot be reached by fire-fighting vehicles caught in traffic.
The productivity of the private sector and the Federal Government is signi-
ficantly reduced by these conditions, which include extended journeys to work,
poor communications, and fuel shortages. Improvements in these conditions
are urgent, yet have been deferred by the Federal Military Government (FMG)
until the Master Plan for the Metropolitan area is prepared and approved
during 1979-80. In the interim, efforts have gone ahead for the planning and
development of a new Federal capital at Abuja in the center of the country.
1.08      The greatest impact of these shortages of urban services and housing
is felt by the urban poor. The 1978 World Bank estimated relative urban
poverty threshold is N196 or US$302 annual income per capita, implying monthly
incomes of N16 or US$25 per capita. This is above the per capita income of



- 4 -
Nll or US$16.94 for a household of six persons earning the minimum monthly
wage of N65 or US$100 for a laborer in the Nigerian public sector. This
minimum public wage, while usually serving as an indicator of the median
of urb-a income distributions in most West African cities, does not serve
this function in Nigeria, where the high cost of living leaves a household
of six persons earning N65 per month below the urban poverty threshold of
N98 (US$151). While reliable urban income distribution data is lacking in
Nigeria, partial data for some regions indicates that there are substantial
differences in regional income levels. A 1977 survey in Imo State indicated
that 83% of all households in the state earned below N65 per month. In
Bauchi town, with a labor shortage, only 20% of the population earned below
N65 per month in 1978 (see para. 4.13).
C. Managing Urban Growth
Federal Level
1.09      Responsibility for the management of national urban growth lies
with the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH). Prior to 1976, the
former Federal Ministry of Works-supervised the activities of the Federal
Housing Authority and was empowered to formulate policy in the urban sector.
The administrative resources for this task in a large, already heavily
urbanized country such as Nigeria, were then considered to be inadequate,
leading in 1977 to the creation of the Federal Ministry of Housing, Urban
Development and Environment (FMUHDE). The latter Ministry began to take
hold of the many urban development tasks assigned to it under the Third
National Development Plan, but eventually was obliged to devote the majority
of its attention to the construction of residential accommodation for the
Festival of Black Arts and Culture (FESTAC), which was held in Lagos in 1977.
In December 1977, as part of a financial austerity policy of the Federal
Military Council, the Ministry was abolished and its functions returned to
the Federal Ministry of Works, which became the Federal Ministry of Works
and Housing (FMWH).
1.10      FMWH now combines responsibilities for the Federal Works Program,
including the Federal Highway Program and many other projects, as well as
for supervision of the much smaller Federal housing and urban development
programs. The Housing, Urban Development, and Lands Division of FMWH is
responsible for the formulation of Federal policy in the urban sector and
for the supervision of Federal projects, such as new towns as well as for the
supervision of the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) and the Federal Mortgage
Bank of Nigeria (FMBN). This Division is the core of the former FMHUDE
and is staffed by a small group of architects and urban planners with limited
project experience. The Division does not have the technical capacity con-
sistent with its workload, but can be expected to develop as it becomes
increasingly involved in the monitoring of existing projects and contributes
to the preparation of future projects.



- 5 -
1.11      The two major operational arms of the Federal Ministry of Works
and Housing in the urban sector are the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) and
the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN). FHA is responsible for the
construction and supervision of housing for public employees throughout the
country. It was responsible for the construction of FESTAC Village, which
consisted of many high standard housing units costing from N26,000 to N126,000
(US$40,000-US$194,000). Its performance in FESTAC Village has received in-
creasing criticism from the Federal Military Government and consequently,
its operations have been curtailed quite substantially since 1977. FRA will
probably continue to build housing for Federal civil servants, but its over-
all operations will be reduced in the future. The Federal Mortgage Bank of
Nigeria was created in July 1977 to take over the functions of the declining
Nigeria Building Society (NBS) and to expand mortgage finance activities
throughout the country. It has focused its lending on middle- and upper-
income clients, mostly in Lagos. Recently, FMBN has begun to expand its
lending to lower income groups and is expected to develop into the premier
lending institution in the sector. The following section provides information
on the institutional framework and financial condition of the FMBN.
The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN)
1.   Institutional Framework
1.12      The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria was created in 1977 under
Decree 7 of the Federal Military Government to take over and expand the
activities and portfolio of the Nigeria Building Society (NBS). NBS had been
created in 1956 under the joint ownership of the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC) and the Federation of Nigeria in order to develop public
mortgage finance activities. NBS developed slowly until the period 1971-75,
when the FMG acquired the 60% CDC interest in NBS, provided additional lend-
able funds, and reduced interest rates. This activity depended heavily on
Federal capital inputs and interest subsidies, which declined sharply after
1976, creating a situation in which NBS faced severe financial problems at
a time when the demand for mortgage finance was increasing. FMBN was then
created to resolve NBS's problems while at the same time quickly expanding
operations to become the major mortgage finance institution in the country.
FMBN was given broad authority to finance construction and/or improvements
of residential, commercial, and industrial property. Its clients could be
individuals, public, and private institutions, including state housing cor-
porations. In fulfilling its mandate as a national institution, it was
charged to establish branches in each of the 19 states and to expand lending,
subject only to the demand and availability of funds.
1.13      Under the Decree, FMBN was placed under the responsibility of FMWH
and other government agencies. These arrangements, presented in Annex 4,
Figure 1, were not formally established during the first 18 months of FMBN's
existence, largely due to uncertainties associated with the return to civilian



-6-
rule in Nigeria. The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria operated without a
Board of Directors and consequently without adequate supervision from other
financial institutions such as the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Central
Bank. Following the appraisal mission's recommendations, a permanent Board
has been appointed and was inaugurated in June 1979. The creation of this
Board which consists of members representing Government and private sector,
and particularly the increased involvement of the Central Bank is expected
to provide needed support to the management of FMBN.
1.14      In order to quickly start up FMBN operations in 1977, the FMG
appointed an expatriate management consulting firm to manage the transition
from the NBS period through the first three years of FMBN operations. This
firm has provided a six-man team which is now managing the operational depart-
ments of FMBN as well as providing overall institutional management through
an expatriate managing director. The team has faced major constraints in
developing the FMBN into a rapidly expanding institution. Its first problem
has been its inheritance from NBS which includes a ten-month backlog of
accounting and bookkeeping, inadequate financial records, gross errors in
accounting information, a high proportion of delinquent mortgage accounts and
a lack of middle-management personnel to operate the institution on a daily
basis. Determining the financial status of FMBN was the first priority for
the team which has now developed a clear picture of the financial situation.
Other problems included severe communications problems between headquarters
in Lagos and branch offices and a lack of a minimum of office facilities to
permit effective operations. These difficulties were compounded by the
requirement that branch offices open in all 19 states and thus prematurely
decentralize a young institution. While the branch offices are required
by the Decree, they have not been financially justified in terms of the
demand for mortgage finance and have thus added administrative costs without
contributing new resources to FMBN.
1.15      The management of FMBN is aware of these problems and has made
efforts to overcome them during the institution's first 18 months. The
preappraisal and appraisal missions have had extensive discussions with
FMBN management concerning these problems and have agreed on a recommended
set of measures to reduce the impact of these problems on current operations
(see para. 1.18 and Annex 4). These were also discussed with FMWH, the
Central Bank and the Federal Ministry of Finance, and represent an agreed
approach towards short-term strengthening of FMBN. At negotiations, FMBN
management submitted a work program for the next 18 months, including a
statement of policies and procedures to be followed to guide future operations.
These include decentralization policies, accounting procedures, staff training,
Nigerianization of management, and information systems. FMBN has agreed to
submit a report incorporating the Bank's comments during negotiations by
October 30, 1979. The report will provide the basis for determining how
technical assistance for FMBN operations, financed under the loan, should be
deployed after June 30, 1980.



-7-
2.   Financial Condition
1.16      Added to the institutional problems of FMBN have been a series
of financial constraints which weakened the institution during its first 18
months. These included: (1) a limited capital base of some N12 2 million
in lendable funds, compared to outstanding mortgage commitments of about N68
million as of September 1978; (2) interest rate ceilings set by the FMG as low
as 3% for private mortgages from 1975-77 (currently 6%); (3) a Central Bank
prohibition against issuing discountable debt securities in private capital
markets; and (4) high administrative costs arising from unnecessarily cumber-
some procedures (para. 1.14). These constraints weighed heavily on the
financial condition of FMBN for whom mortgage assets represented some 96%
of total assets as of March 31, 1978. While the liquidity position of FMBN
improved slightly in 1978, the essential financial problem facing the insti-
tution was a serious overcommitment on the basis of an inadequate capital
structure.
1.17      To address this capitalization problem, FMG approved a proposal
developed in 1978 by the Central Bank responding to an initial proposal by
FMBN management, which would increase the capital base of FMBN to N150 million
in which FMG and CBN would be 60% and 40% shareholders, respectively. This
proposal includes an equity contribution of N60 million from the Central Bank
to FMBN, the conversion of N72.5 million in FMG loans to equity, and an
increase in FMG equity to N90 million. In order to further improve FMBN's
capital structure, FMG also agreed to two additional measures: (a) a N20
million loan in 1979  effective June 1979 (at an interest rate of 5% p.a. over
15 years with a 3-year grace period); and (b) provision through CBN of housing
funds accrued by commercial banks which fall short of the minimum of 5%
lending for housing. Through this scheme, a first tranche of N3.9 million
will be made available in 1979.
1.18      While the above plan will help FMBN meet its outstanding commit-
ments, the amount of new lendable funds through 1984/85 will not permit the
institution to continue undertaking new commitments at the present rate. It
will consequently be necessary for FNBN to reduce the rate of growth of its
conventional lending portfolio and consolidate its financial position (para.
4.12). This consolidation strategy has been developed in consultation with
FNBN, the Central Bank, the Federal Ministry of Finance, and the FMWH and
involves the following principles:
(a) Existing commitments should be fulfilled.
(b) A reduced rate of growth of FMBN's conventional mortgage
portfolio is required to match commitments with the avail-
ability of lendable funds.
(c) Improved collection of receivables, including revised
computation and collection of arrears, is required to
improve FMBN's cash flow and ability to undertake new
mortgage commitments.



-8-
(d) Shortened terms for mortgages for rental housing, in which
capital investments are often recovered by borrowers in
two years, are justified to improve FMBN's cash flow.
(e) Low-income lending on a self-financing, full cost recovery
basis, should be developed to meet a growing portion of the
demand for mortgage finance.
(f) Improved savings performance is necessary to generate
non-public funds for use in mortgage finance.
(g) Administrative expenditures should be restricted to
reduce erosion of FMBN capital.
The effect of consolidation is demonstrated in Annex 4, Table 3. While the
impact of consolidation will be significant for FMBN, its effects will be
marginal on the amount of housing investment in the country over the next
few years, given the fact that FMBN funds currently represent only a small
share of total annual investment in the housing sector.
1.19      Data on the Nigerian housing sector, its resources for housing
finance, and the relative place -of the FMBN, are generally inadequate.
FMBN's yearly growth in mortgage assets has roughly been averaging N20
million, compared with total Federal investments in housing up to N262
million in 1976, N222 million in 1977 (budgeted) and N85 million in 1979
(budgeted). It should be noted that the Federal Government, since about
1977, has been increasingly delegating public housing investment activities
to the states, about which no data are available. Furthermore, available
data exclude all private housing lending activities by commercial banks and
large companies for employee lending. While the current position of FMBN
in the sector is modest, its long-term objective, however, is to become the
primary lender for the sector. This can be achieved by the end of the 1980s,
providing a sound institution is developed in the period through 1985.
State Level
1.20      One of the results of the Federal budgetary constraints has been
the decentralization of responsibility for housing and urban development from
the Federal level to the 19 states. This decision was announced in April
1978 and is reflected in the curtailing of Federal expenditures for housing
projects in the states. Responsibility for these activities has thus fallen
onto the state ministries of works and housing and their affiliate institu-
tions, such as the state housing corporations and state development boards.
While Federal guidelines exist for the use of Federal funds for housing and
urban development projects, these guidelines no longer apply where the state
governments have become both the funding and executing agencies. This decen-
tralization, coupled with the creation of seven new states in August has
strained the technical capacity in the state ministries of works and housing,
which have few staff experienced in this field. The result is a dependence
on consultants for preparation and supervision of projects in most states.



-9-
Local Level
1.21      The creation of a system of Local Government Authorities (LGA) in
1976 resurrected the old system of local government which had existed during
the colonial rule, but had been abolished by the Federal Military Government
in 1966. The LGAs are intended to play an increasing role in local adminis-
tration, maintenance, and revenue collection within Nigeria's urban centers.
At the present time, however, they have limited capital and are unable to
undertake significant housing and urban development projects, which usually
have been managed by their respective state governments. The exceptions to
these arrangements have been in the larger cities such as Lagos, Kano, and
some of the new state capitals, where city development boards were created
to manage the development of the cities. This has been relatively successful
in towns such as Kano, but in most cases, the rapid growth of population and
the demand for urban services has outstripped the financial and institutional
capacity of these bodies to provide the needed management control and services.
D. The Search for Solutions
1.22      Both the Federal and state governments have recognized the widen-
ing gap between the supply and demand for housing and urban infrastructure.
During the years of increasing oil revenues, the Federal Military Government
announced the ambitious objective of financing the construction of some
202,000 housing units within the period 1976-80 as part of the Third National
Development Plan. This objective was to be achieved through the sharing of
construction costs between the Federal and state governments and the imple-
mentation efforts of state agencies, within the guidelines of the Federal
Housing Housing Authority. By late 1977, only some 10,000 units had been
built, mostly in Lagos, and several state programs had been prepared, but
not implemented. The slow start and eventual failure of this program has led
to criticism of the FRA and the state housing corporations and the growing
recognition that alternative, low-cost housing and infrastructure solutions
had to be found. While most of this attention has focused on housing, it has
also been understood that urban infrastructure must be linked to residential
development. The search for new solutions has consequently been directed at
housing, infrastructure, and employment promotion measures.
1.23      Several efforts in this direction have occurred in the housing
sector. The FMBN was directed by FMWH in 1978 to develop a specific policy
for lending to low-income clients for low-cost housing. In response, FMBN
developed a low-income lending policy which was submitted to the Ministry
in August 1978. This policy and related institutional and financial changes
are reflected in the proposed project (see paras 4.10-4.12). Simultaneously,
FMWH established a section to coordinate research on the use of local building
materials in order to develop a policy and guidelines in this area. The issue
of housing policy has also been raised by the Central Planning Office of the
Federal Ministry of Economic Development which is financing a housing policy
study to be carried out in 1979 to develop recommendations for the Fourth
National Development Plan.



- 10 -
1.24      While these activities are related to infrastructure, additional
efforts are underway in this sector. As in the case of housing, the Third
National Development Plan established ambitious investment targets for urb-'
infrastructure. These have not been met because of constraints on finance
and execution capacity. The Federal Ministry of Natural Resources, however,
has sought to lower costs in urban water supply projects by reviewing stan-
dards and the impact of distribution systems. Efforts to reduce the costs of
urban roads, however, have not yet been reflected in the design of road net-
works in the major towns.
1.25      On the employment side, the Industrial Development Centers (IDCs)
financed by the Federal Ministry of Industries have not met original expecta-
tions concerning their effectiveness. The three centers in Owerri, Zaria,
and Oshogbo were supposed to promote small-scale enterprises and to train
managers for these enterprises. The centers have been costly, and less
productive than expected. The Federal Military Government intends to con-
tinue to establish IDC's on a national basis, but, in view of the costs
involved, recently decided for a more gradual implementation.
1.26      The request for World Bank assistance in the urban sector developed
out of this context and was presented in terms of finding new low-cost solu-
tions to Nigeria's urban problems. These solutions were to be initially
evaluated by the FMG in the context of pilot projects in the hope of later
extending them throughout the country as part of a national program. This
program would then seek to achieve the targets of the Third National Develop-
ment Plan as well as some additional investment to be included in the Fourth
National Development Plan. An urban project identification mission visited
Nigeria in October 1977 and was requested by the then Federal Ministry of
Housing, Urban Development, and Environment to visit Bauchi and Imo States,
both new states created in 1976 and experiencing rapid urban growth. The
mission was asked to examine the feasibility of developing pilot low-cost
urban development projects in these states to serve as models for national
housing programs. The design of these projects was to emphasize low costs
and standards, adaptability to different states, financial affordability
for low-income households, and replicability.
1.27      It was agreed at that time that both states should conduct feasi-
bility studies to prepare projects for consideration for World Bank financing.
While the states do not have the most urgent large-scale urban problems in
Nigeria, the conditions in those states are representative of much of the
sector. The strong interest of the state governments also suggested that the
states would be good locations for evaluating low-cost solutions in small
pilot projects. Consequently, Bauchi State Government carried out a feasi-
bility study during 1978 and prepared the proposed pilot project. 1/ Imo
State, however, was eventually unable to finance its feasibility study in
time for inclusion under this project. 2/ The proposed project as presented
below includes, therefore, a single pilot project in Bauchi State.
1/   This study was carried out by Dar-al-Handasah, Consultants, London.
2/   The Imo feasibility study was initiated in July 1979.



- 11 -
E. The Project Towns: Bauchi and Gombe
1.28      Bauchi State was previously a part of the North-eastern State whose
headquarters was located in Maiduguri. The establishment of the new state
and the designation of Bauchi town as the new state capital has led to rapid
growth since 1976. While historically a traditional center in the north,
going back to the nineteenth century, Bauchi town was an agricultural market-
ing center prior to 1976. Its population had grown from 38,000 in 1963 to
about 69,000 in 1974. This population had approximately doubled to about
140,000 in 1978, largely resulting from migration to the new state capital
which has offered many employment possibilities.
1.29      The rapid growth of Bauchi is stimulated by the creation of the
administrative infrastructure for the new capital, including many public
buildings, roads, and other facilities, as well as private sector activity.
Much of the budget of the first two years of the new Bauchi State Government
has been devoted to expenditures with multiplier effects for Bauchi town.
These have in turn attracted small-and medium-scale enterprises covering the
full range of goods and services. In addition, several major industrial
projects have been initiated, including a truck assembly plant and an asbes-
tos cement factory. A cement factory nearby is expected to supply needed
materials, thus avoiding the traditional cement bottleneck found elsewhere
in Nigeria. Taken together, employment opportunities have grown so rapidly
in Bauchi that there is now a labor shortage in the town. This has led to
increased in-migration by workers from the southern states to meet the demand.
1.30      Despite its relative prosperity, Bauchi town remains poorly ser-
viced, with many people unable to find housing and clean water supply. Con-
struction has focused on large public projects, leaving little activity in
the housing sector. The Bauchi State Housing Corporation has constructed a
limited number of so-called low-cost units, but the cheapest of these costs
N26,000 (US$40,000) and is affordable only to the highest ranking officials
of the State Government. The majority of the population lives within the
traditional walled areas of the town, in mud houses, often inhabited by
2 or 3 families. These neighborhoods lack water, roads, drainage, and social
facilities. Improvements in the new middle-income and Government residential
areas of Bauchi have by-passed these populated neighborhoods, despite the
fact that most of the population growth of the town has been absorbed within
the wall (see Map No. 14155).
1.31      These conditions are well-illustrated in the Makama neighborhood of
Bauchi where the proposed project will be located (see para. 2.08). About
52% of the Bauchi town population does not have a clean water source within
their compounds. This is worse in Makama where about 81% of the residents
rely on wells for water supply. Their consumption of about 21 lcd is of
polluted water sources whose bacteriological content makes them unhealthy for
human consumption. About 94% of the households use pit latrines for waste
disposal and this method pollutes the groundwater supplies for the wells.
Despite the predominance of this problem, about 80% of the women surveyed in



- 12 -
Makama were unaware that water supply can be linked to personal health. Of
the small percentage of people who obtained water from public taps, some
20% must walk about 30 minutes from their houses to the taps. The public
neglect of these settlements is further reflected by the fact that only 9%
of the households in Makama are served by the public refuse collection system.
1.32      In contrast to the recent growth of Bauchi, the town of Gombe is
an older agricultural center which has enjoyed some prosperity for several
decades. Gombe is the headquarters for the World Bank-financed Gombe Agri-
cultural Development Project and the successful performance of that project
has benefited the town substantially. With a population of about 100,000
persons, Gombe is an active commercial center serving the eastern part of
Bauchi State. Prior to 1976, the town was relatively better served than
Bauchi in terms of schools, health facilities, and infrastructure. It has
a smaller share of public investment since that time as basic infrastructure
networks had to be installed in Bauchi town. Gombe is included in this
project in the interests of maintaining some balance in living conditions
between the two towns. Gombe's older residential neighborhoods are somewhat
better served than their counterparts in Bauchi, with the exception of water
supply and sanitation which both need improvements.
1.33      The Bolari neighborhood in Gombe, housing some 15,000 persons on
75 hectares, is in greatest need of these improvements (see para. 2.33).
Some 82% of the households lack water supply and are thus dependent on com-
mercial water sellers. The Bolari population pays about N25 or about one-
third of monthly income, per household per month for water, at consumption
levels of 16 lcd. Its density of 200 persons per hectare is roughly
equivalent to Makama in Bauchi, but the existence of open space community
facilities and areas with serious erosion problems results in much denser
settlement patterns. The consequent problems of environmental sanitation
and drainage are thus exacerbated.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.01      The major objective of the first urban development project in
Nigeria is to lay the foundations for a national low-cost housing program
and a broader urban lending program in the future. The project is designed
to develop the institutional and financial framework for the implementation
of a national low-cost housing policy. This policy would promote the con-
struction of low-cost, affordable housing and related infrastructure services
throughout Nigeria. The short-term objective of this project is to demon-
strate the applicability of sites and services and upgrading programs to
Nigeria, thereby permitting a future expansion of the program on a larger
scale.



- 13 -
B. Main Features
2.02      Four instruments are proposed to achieve the above objectives:
Table II-1
Component                           ___     _-Cost                  % of Project Cost
(N '000)         (US$ '000)
1. Technical Assistance -
FMBN Operations                     474.2             730.3              2
2.  Assistance to the Project
Development Department of
the Federal Mortgage Bank
of Nigeria                        1,414.7           2,178.6             6
3   Seven Project Preparation
Studies for Projects in
Urbanized States                  2,585.8           3,982.3             11
4.  Strengthening of Housing,
Urban Development, and
Lands Division of FMWH
through coordination and
monitoring of program               ---                      a/        ---
5.  Pilot Urban Development
Project in Bauchi State:
Sites and Services                1,484.0           2 ,285.4            6
Upgrading                         2,292.5           3,530.4             10
Off-Site Infrastructure           1,036.6           1,596.4              4
Construction Loans                9,074.5          13,974.7            38
Social Services                   2,865.4           4,1412.7           12
Technical Assistance              1,091.2           1,680.4              5
Industrial Estate                   279.7             430.7              1
Assistance to Bauchi Local
Government Authority              162.1             249.6             1
Environmental Sanitation - Gombe  304.5               468.9              1
Assistance to Gombe Local
Government Authority              126.7             195.1             1
Health Center - Gombe               118.3              182.2             -
Project Preparation Study           450.0             693.0              2
Total                           23,760.0          36,590.6            100
a/   Costs included in annual budget of FMWH.



- 14 -
C. Detailed Description
Assistance to the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (US$2.9 million)
2.03      The strengthening of FMBN is the centerpiece of this project in
order to establish a viable financial institution which can finance and
recover the costs of housing and urban development investment in Nigeria.
The project includes support to FMBN to improve its existing operations while
expanding its lending to low-income borrowers. The proposed improvements were
designed during project preparation and discussed with the Federal Military
Government and the Central Bank of Nigeria.
2.04      The project includes the financing of four man-years of interna-
tionally recruited technical assistance to the Project Development Department
(PDD), which will supervise all low-income lending operations and supervise
the five project preparation studies. This assistance will include a senior
accountant responsible for establishing the accounts and procedures of the
PDD and the FMBN branch in Bauchi and a housing/infrastructure expert to train
Nigerian staff in the PDD in the supervision of the five project preparation
studies. The senior accountant would spend about half of his two-year
assignment in Bauchi and the remainder in the headquarters office in Lagos
in order to develop the accounting procedures required for low-income lending
operations. These procedures will be extended to branches in other states as
low-income lending operations are developed in the next phase of projects.
The housing and infrastructure expert would finalize the terms of reference
for the project preparation studies and work with the six Nigerian technical
staff in the PDD in supervising the studies in order to prepare projects
suitable for appraisal. This project also includes financing of the start-up
costs of the Project Development Unit for a period of two years to establish
the PDD as a self-contained window for low-income lending operations. In
addition to the above, the project includes four man-years of technical
assistance for FMBN operations to strengthen, inter alia, mortgage operations,
accounting and systems management.
2.05      Total technical assistance in FMBN would thus involve some 96
man-months of expatriate expertise costing about US$11,550 per man-month,
reflecting the high cost of living in Lagos (see Annex 2 on technical
assistance).
Project Preparation Studies (US$4.0 million)
2.06      The project includes seven project preparation studies for the
preparation of urban development programs in other states. These studies
would be carried out by consultants to the respective state ministries of
works and housing and are expected to take about eight months each to com-
plete. At the time of appraisal, it was agreed that one of the states would
be Imo State, whose study had been delayed as a result of a lack of funds.
In response to the declared priorities of the Government, it was agreed that
the seven feasibility studies to be financed under the project would relate
to newly established states and to Lagos. It was also agreed to phase the



- 15 -
studies so as to make the task more manageable. Studies relating to Imo,
Lagos, Ogun, and Benue States would be undertaken in the period from September
1979 to September 1980. Studies relating to Ondo, Niger, and Gongola States
would be undertaken in the period from September 1980 to September 1981.
Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (No financial outlay)
2.07      While the project does not include expenditures for FMWH, it does
specify important functions to be performed by the Housing, Urban Develop-
ment, and Lands Division. These functions are described in para. 5.03 of
Chapter V on Organization and Implementation. Furthermore, this project
will provide a basis for strengthening FMWH's capabilities in developing
low income housing policies and programs.
Bauchi State Pilot Project (US$29.7 million)
Bauchi Town
2.08      The Bauchi town shelter component located in Makama is within the
bounds of the old town and constitutes a total area of 333 hectares. It
occupies one-third of the area within the town walls and is located in the
southwestern part of the town. The component comprises sites and services
in 120 hectares of the vacant land, upgrading of the adjacent 140 hectares
of the built-up area and the infilling of a large number of pockets of vacant
land occupying 73 hectares and interspersed within the area to be upgraded.
Two existing through roads, Jahun and Nassarawa Roads, presently in poor
condition, divide the project site into three parts. The project site
of Makama is ideally located in the developed area of Bauchi town and is
adjacent to its employment and administrative center. (See Map 14155.)
A.   Sites and Services (US$2.3 million)
2.09      The 2,100 plots would be laid out in the largely vacant area of 120
hectares. This includes 12 hectares already built upon and these developments
would be incorporated into the proposed layouts. Cost-effective cluster-type
layouts would be incorporated in a series of modules, each 4.4 hectares in
area.2 Each module would have 109 plots of three sizes, namely 200, 270, and
375 m in the proportions of 60%, 20% and 20%, respectively. A service lane
within the module would provide vehicular access to most of the plots. How-
ever, 25% of plots in each module would have only pedestrian access. A central
open space would be incorporated in each module for community uses, including
prayers in this predominantly moslem town.
2.10      Plot options are indicated in Table 1, Annex 6.  Through differential
pricing, the plots with no vehicular access would be affordable to 25% of the
target population. Based on prevailing household sizes, the proposed plots
would accommodate 16,800 persons. It is expected that the population of Makama
would grow from 27,500 to 59,100 during the project period and to 80,000 by
1990. Annex 7 represents the land use distribution for the Makama sites and
services component.



- 16 -
2.11      The plots would be provided with roads, stormwater drainage, water
supply, pit latrines, on-plot soakaways for waste water disposal, electricity,
and refuse collection. Pit latrines are already prevailing in Bauchi. Ground
conditions are suitable for soakaways.
(a) The existing through roads, Jahun and Nassarawa, which
connect the whole of Makama to the rest of the town and
beyond, would be improved, and a new through road would
provide access to the industrial estate to the south
of the site. District roads would provide pedestrian and
vehicular circulation within Makama. The service lanes and
pedestrianways provide for circulation within the modules.
Specifications of road categories are set out below:
Road Type       R.O.W.  Road Width   Construction         Surface
Through Road    20 m         6 m      Laterite base   Bit. spray & chip
District Road   20 m         4 m      Laterite base   No surfacing
Service Lane    12 m         4 m      Shaped earth    No surfacing
Pedestrianway    6 m         4 m      Graded           No surfacing
(b)  Open earth drains would be provided along all roads and
they would be connected to the main drainage outfalls
located on site.
(c) Two public standpipes per module would provide water to the 109
plots initially. However, distribution networks for a design
consumption of 80 lcd would be installed to facilitate 100%
connections eventually. Eventual connection costs will be
minimal. Twelve millimeter pipe spurs would be laid to plot
boundaries, but would be left plugged underground. With the
planned improvements to the town water supply, beneficiaries
are expected to hook up connections when they could afford the
service. Individual water connections rank high in priority in
Makama, and are thus expected in the short- to medium- term.
(d) The 11 kv electricity supply, available on the edge of the
site would be extended to transformer substations located
750 meters from all plots. The low tension distribution
system, not included in the project, would be installed by
NEPA in stages when justified by demand.
(e) Refuse collection points would be provided within each module,
consisting of a cluster of empty oil drums. Collection points
would be located on roads with vehicular access to facilitate
collection by refuse vehicles. Open space would be reserved
for planting of shade trees.



- 17-
(f) Sanitation would be provided through the construction of
a pit latrine on each plot. In an effort to counter the
ill-effects of discharge of domestic waste water into the
circulation areas, soakaways would also be provided on each
lot. Construction of these two components would be by small
contractors or the beneficiary and would be deferred until
the beneficiary has planned the location of his shelter.
(g)  Material loans would be 2vailable for the construction of a
two-room shelter of 18 m according to household income and
plot sizes (see para. 2.19).
B.   Upgrading and Infill (US$3.5 million)
2.12      The area selected for upgrading contains 1,900 compound houses
accommodating 27,500 people in an area of 140 hectares, which is all of
currently populated Makama. Apart from the existing Jahun and Nassarawa
through roads, few roads exist. The majority of the population depend on
wells, often contaminated by pit latrines. Combined with lack of drainage
and refuse collection, existing conditions pose health hazards to residents.
Traditional compound houses 2are built with enclosed courtyards and are on
plots of average size 300 m . Under the upgrading proposals, existing large
plots would be limited to an area of 500 m by a redistribution of land.
Both on-site and off-site infrastructure works will be carried out in such
a manner that minimal demolition of existing shelter will be necessary. An
estimated 5% of the 1,900 structures will be affected. Displaced households
will be given priority in the selection procedures for sites and services and
infill shelter (para 2.18). In addition, they will receive an average com-
pensation of N500 from BSDB.
2.13      Interspersed amongst2the compound houses are numerous pockets of
vacant land ranging from 200 m to 4 hectares, totalling 73 hectares. All the
vacant land would be laid out in infill plots, depending on size and location
to achieve maximum utilization and density into three plot sizes of 200,270
and 375 m in an overall distribution of 60%, 20% and 20%, respectively. These
new 1,850 infill plots would generally have pedestrian access only and would
have the same level of servicing as the rest of the upgrading area. Based on
prevailing household sizes, the proposed plots would accommodate 14,800 persons.
2.14      Plot options and land-use distribution are indicated in Annexes 6
and 7.
(a) Apart from the improvements to Jahun and Nassarawa Roads,
common to upgrading and sites and services, new and X
improved vehicular and pedestrian access would be provided
with vehicular access to within 150 meters of all dwellings.
Roads would be unsurfaced but with a compacted laterite base.
Open earth drainage channels would be provided along all roads
and other locations as appropriate and would be connected
to the outfall drains on site.



- 18 -
(b) Water supply would be by standpipe initially, provided at
the rate of one per 400 persons. However, distribution
networks designed for a consumption of 80 lcd would be
installed for an eventual individual or shared connection
to all plots.
(c) The 11 kv electricity network would be extended to cover
all areas to be improved and would terminate at transformer
stations located no further than 750 m from any dwelling.
The distribution network would be extended to cover the
upgrading and infill areas.
(d) A refuse collection service would be provided under the
project. Collection points would be located along vehicular
routes and would be within 150 meters of all dwellings.
Open spaces would be developed with the planting of shade
trees.
(e) Provision would be made for a pit latrine and soakaway on
the 1,850 new infill plots. As in the case of sites and
services, their construction would be deferred until plot
development by beneficiaries.
(f) Material loans would be available for the new infill plots
for the construction of a two-room shelter of 18 m . Home
improvement loans would also be available for the upgrading
area (see para. 2.19).
C.   Off-site Infrastructure  (US$1.6 million)
2.15   ' The Bauchi town component comprising sites and services and up-
grading, including infill, is in one contiguous area and improvements to the
area infrastructure is a prerequisite. The cost of such infrastructure would
be apportioned between the beneficiaries of sites and services and upgrading
and Bauchi State Government, as appropriate. Infrastructure falling under
this category is described below:
(a) Roads. Jahun and Nassarawa Roads that exist divide the
project site into three parts. These two roads provide
through access to the rest of the town and beyond and are
presently in a poor condition. The layouts also provide
for a new through road, off Nassarawa Road, towards the
south to serve the industrial area near the railway. The
three roads, 4.6 km in length, would have a 6-meter wide
bitumen surface.
(b) Drainage. Three natural drainage outfalls cross Makama
from east to west, with the catchment area extending
beyond Makama. The flood plains occupy large tracts of
land within the site and encourages breeding of mosquitoes.
The project provides for the canalizing of these three
outfalls, 3.6 km in length; and would improve the environ-
ment and reclaim land for other uses.



- 19 -
(c)  Water.  A contingency provision would be made for connecting
11 unutilized boreholes, located south of the industrial
site, to the pumping main leading to the Kobi Hill reservoir.
This involves the laying of 11,400 meters of mains and
ancillary works costing N260,000.  Provision is also mrIe to
strengthen some of the distribution networks serving the site.
The State Water Board is currently engaged in the construction of Gubi Dam,
10 km from town, estimated to provide 1.5 mgd to alleviate the critical water
shortage that presently necessitates a restricted distribution. The works
consist of the dam, treatment works, supply main and storage. Although the
works are scheduled for completion in 1980, various difficulties are expected
to delay completion until 1982. The distribution network to be laid under the
contingency plan will form part of the long-term distribution network.
(d) Electricity. The 11 kv electrical supply, available in the
eastern periphery of Makama would be extended to serve the
sites and services and upgrading component. This supply would
be available at nine transformer substation of 100, 200, 315
kva capacity and will be located so that secondary distribution
could be made to all parts of the site.
Land Transfer and Use
2.16      The land in Makama is presently occupied by households having
traditional occupancy permits granted by the Emir of Bauchi. Under the
Federal Land Use Decree of 1978, all urban land is presently owned by the
state governments in Nigeria. Vacant land is formally transferred to the
state governments from holders of customary occupancy rights through the
payment of compensation determined by the land division of the state minis-
tries of works, housing, lands and survey. This sum has been fixed at a
maximum of N2,000 per hectare for Bauchi town. Occupied land continues to
be occupied by present inhabitants who pay a minimal registration fee. Where
the state government desires to use occupied land for other purposes, it can
expropriate that land using the same procedures and compensation rates as
above. The Makama area will thus be transferred from traditional to state
ownership through the evaluation of current occupancy patterns and payment of
compensation at the above rate where required. BSDB is presently initiating
the procedures for land transfer for the sites and services area in Makama
and expects the process (including the upgrading and infill areas) to take
about six months, until June 1979. The mission recommends that completion
of this process be a condition for Board presentation (para. 7.03).
2.17      Households in the neighborhood would be granted occupancy permits
by the Local Government Authority with the approval of the land division of
the state ministry of works, housing, lands, and survey. These permits would
be transferable by sale by households after a period of five years, unless
the households failed to meet mortgage obligations, in which case the plots
and houses would be taken over by BSDB for sale to another eligible household.



- 20 -
Selection Criteria
2.18      Households would be selected for the new plots in both the sites
and services and infill areas according to the following criteria: monthly
household income between N65 and N141, one year residence in Bauchi town, and
a lack of ownership of another house elsewhere. Priority shall be given to
residents displaced because of upgrading operations. Individual households
would be chosen by a lottery stratified according to income. Plots would then
be allocated according to different plot options. Plot options and afford-
ability factors are presented in Annex 5, Table 1. (See para. 4.13 for a
discussion of affordability.) The selection process would be managed by a
committee including representatives of BSDB, the Bauchi LGA, FMBN, and the
State Government (see para 5.10).
(D) Home Construction and Improvement Loans (US$14.0 million)
2.19      Loans for the construction and improvement of shelter would be
provided through a loan scheme to be operated by the Bauchi Branch of the
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria. The loan amounts would be N1,100 or N1,350,
depending on household income and plot size, and would be adequate for the
construction of a minimum two-room shelter of 18 sq m. It is assumed that
100% of households occupying new-plots would take these loans. The basic
traditional shelter would consist of concrete foundations, mud floor, mud or
concrete block walls, galvanized corrugated iron roof sheeting on azara timber
roof and wooden window and door frames, and would cost between N58 and N71
per sq m. These design options were developed through discussions with local
construction firms and artisans. The basic N1,100 unit contrasts to the
N26,000 cost of the cheapest unit now being built by the Bauchi State Housing
Corporation and is similarly cheaper than any housing now being built by a
public agency in Nigeria. A sketch of this unit is presented as Sketch I.
In addition, provision has been made for home improvement loans of N500 or
N1,000 for 50% of the existing households in the upgrading area. (See
para 4.16.)
(E) Social Services (US$4.4 million)
1.   Primary Schools
2.20      Land would be reserved in Makama for seven primary schools, each to
be located on a 1.5 hectare site. Five primary schools would be constructed
assuming an increase from the present 52% in 1978 to about 65% school attend-
ance by 1983, based on current enrollment rates, availability of teachers and
classroom sizes. Space standards adopted of 1.25 sq m per pupil of 50 per
class conform to Federal Government standards currently used in Nigeria.
The schools would consist of five, six-classroom buildings costing N227,000
(US$350,000) in 1979 base prices, and would be operated under the jurisdiction
of the Bauchi State Local Government Authority and the Bauchi State Ministry
of Education.



- 21 -
2.   Health
2.21      Poor health conditions in Bauchi and Gombe reflect the rapid growth
of the towns, the inadequacy of existing centralized facilities, the lack
of health education, and the strictly curative orientation of existing health
programs. Each town has a single overcrowded hospital, but lacks decentral-
ized health services. It is therefore proposed to provide a mix of preventive
and curative services within the health component. Surveys conducted during
project preparation indicate that 70% of the families had at least one severe-
ly ill child during the preceding year. Malaria and measles are the most
frequent diseases, with an alarming number of measles cases resulting in
death. Infant mortality among the surveyed population was 170/1,000 live
births, with the women population averaging 25 years in age having had 3.9
pregnancies and desiring an additional four children per family. Eighty
percent of the women had no knowledge of contraception. Giver. the high
incidence of disease whose major causes include unsafe water supply, it is
expected that improved and expanded water supply distribution will result
in a reduction of diseases within the Makama neighborhood.
2.22      The health component consists of the construction, equipment,
vehicles, training and staffing of five health clinics (1 per 10,000 popula-
tion) in Bauchi town, and one maternal child welfare center with 10 beds
in Gombe. This program will be carried out in 3-1/2.years starting in
mid-1979. Three of the clinics will be located in the area for upgrading
and two in the sites and services area. The rationale for these facilities
is twofold: first, they will decentralize the provision of care from the
existing health facilities, and second, they will serve as needed field
service areas for the Bauchi State Schools of Community Midwifery and Health
Technology. The services to be provided include:
(a) pre- and post-natal care of women, including deliveries;
(b)  well child care;
(c)  health and nutrition education;
(d)  family planning motivation and supplies;
(e)  primary care for all sick adults and children in the
project neighborhoods;
(f)  referral of cases to hospital when needed; and
(g)  a regular program of household insecticide spraying to
control malaria.
2.23      It is unreasonable to expect significant improvements in the health
status of the target population during the short project period. But as a
first exercise, the Ministry of Health will establish quantifiable perform-
ance targets to be achieved annually by the facilities. Moreover, the faci-
lities will provide much needed training sites for the new School of Health
Technology and the School of Community Midwifery. Faculty of both schools
look to them as operational testing areas for their curricula.



- 22 -
2.24      The staffing for all facilities will be provided by the Ministry
of Health which guarantees to meet all recurrent costs. For each clinic the
staff includes: one community midwife, two health assistants, two health
aides, one clerk, two laborers, two watchmen, and one supervising community
health officer for all five clinics. The maternal child welfare center will
have a similar staffing pattern with the addition of a second midwife and one
supervising health assistant to replace the community health officer. The
annual outputs of the two schools assure that adequate staff will be avail-
able when the facilities are ready to open. In both towns, the local hospital
will be the referral point for cases needing more skilled medical management.
2.25      In addition to the above, a large number of existing disused clay
borrow pits within the walled area will be filled to prevent breeding of
mosquitoes. These areas will be reclaimed for use as open spaces. Excavated
material from the construction works will be used as landfill, after leaving
adequate amounts of suitable materials for housing construction. Measures
will be taken by the LGA to prevent further extraction of clay from these
pits in order to avoid creation of new malaria breeding grounds.
(F) Assistance to Bauchi Local Government Authority (US$.25 million)
2.26      An inadequate refuse collection system is presently operated by the
State Medical Officer of the Ministry of Health for the low density residential
area and another by the Bauchi Local Government Authority for the area within
the town walls. The former service is to be handed over to the Bauchi State
Development Board in the near future.  Since the LGA will play an increasing
role in the medium-term in providing municipal services, the project provides
two man-months of technical assistance of a solid waste expert starting in
August 1979 to study and develop systems for the improved refuse collection
and disposal service for Bauchi. The cost of technical assistance would be
N3,250 (US$5,005) per man-month. The efforts of the LGA would be supplemented
by the provision of three side-loader refuse vehicles including spares and
start-up costs, which would be purchased in April 1979. Expenditures for this
component and others such as technical assistance to BSDB and detailed engi-
neering, made prior to signature of the World Bank loan, would be incurred
by Bauchi State Government under this project. No disbursements are required
from the proceeds of the World Bank loan, but come from the local counterpart
financing for the project. The procurement of goods and services for these
elements will conform to the procurement guidelines applying to the project as
a whole. (See para. 3.11).
2.27      The cleaning of roadside drains and maintenance of roads has thus
far received inadequate attention by the LGA. The provision of an improved
refuse collection service and the cleaning of drainage channels would achieve
a significant improvement in the environmental conditions of the town. To
achieve this objective, provision would be made for 12 man-months of local
technical assistance starting in April 1979 to reinforce and improve the
Bauchi LGA maintenance operations department. The cost of local technical
assistance is N700 (US$1,078) per man-month.



- 23 -
(G) Employment (US$.43 million)
2.28      As noted in para. 1.08, there is presently a labor shortage in
Bauchi and no major employment problem exists. This situation, however,
is not expected to continue. The small-scale enterprise sector is dynamic,
yet faces major constraints if it is to expand in the medium-term. There
is a shortage of serviced sites for industrial development and the general
lack of infrastructure in the town reduces the efficiency of individual
enterprises. The constraints of infrastructure, credit, and training will
become increasingly severe, given the sizable demand for the goods and ser-
vices produced by this sector. The project proposes to respond to the first
of these contraints, infrastructure, while leaving the others to a proposed
IDF project which would assist small-scale enterprises in Nigeria. This
approach permits BSDB to expand its provision of infrastructure in the
industrial zone of the town, but does not involve other institutions, such
as the State Ministry of Trade and Industry, which may be involved in the
proposed IDF project. This project therefore would include three employment-
oriented components: a small-scale industry estate, plots for informal sector
enterprises within the sites and services area and technical assistance to
small building contractors.
2.29      The small-scale industry site would cover seven hectares and would
be located outside the city walls in an adjacent area reserved for industries.
(See Map No. 14156.) Fifty-one plots would be created within the site and
would be fully serviced with bituminous surfaced roads, stormwater drainage,
water supply, and electricity. Plots would be sized from 400 to 1,200 sq m
to cater for a range of small-scale industries, which are expected to employ
a maximum of 30 persons per plot. The average size of these enterprises is
based on a survey of existing enterprises in the town.
2.30      Corner plots in the residential module for sites and services,
fronting district and through roads, would be designated mixed-use plots
and would be reserved for informal sector enterprises. About 35 such plots
conforming to the largest plot size of 375 sq m would be distributed through
the sites and services area at the rate of two per residential module. The
plots would be serviced to the same standard as other plots in the sites
and services area.
2.31      Technical assistance would be provided to small building contractors
through three man-years of a building expert who would be assigned to the
Bauchi State Development Board. Contractors would be assisted in the organiza-
tion and management of building works, preparation of contracts, demonstration
and use of cheaper alternative building materials, techniques and equipment.
(H) Technical Assistance to Bauchi State Development Board (US$1.7 million)
2.32      Twelve and a half man-years of technical assistance would be pro-
vided to the Bauchi State Development Board for project execution. This would
include three man-years of the specialist for training of small building con-
tractors, three and a half man-years for a project manager, two man-years



- 24 -
of a civil engineer to coordinate project preparation, bidding documents
and contract awards, one man-year of a planner to assist in the preparation
of final layout plans, and three man-years for a senior accountant to super-
vise project finances. Terms of reference for these positions were agreed
upon with BSDB during the appraisal mission. The cost per man-month of
technical assistance in Bauchi is N2,500 (US$3,850) in 1978 prices (see
Annex 2). The project also provides for the start-up costs of the project
unit in BSDB and counterpart staff, including a civil engineer, planner and
a socioeconomist. The project unit would be established in April 1979 (see
para. 5.08).
Gombe Town
(A) Environmental Sanitation - Bolari (US$.47 million)
2.33      Bolari is a 75 hectare densely developed settlement in Gombe,
situated 156 kilometers east of Bauchi.  (See Map No. 14157.)   Some 15,000
people live in the neighborhood under poor environmental conditions. Refuse
litters the neighborhood and clogs the few drainage channels. The discharge
of domestic waste water to accessways and to drainage channels are main con-
tributors to the poor sanitary conditions. The problems are compounded by the
general erosion problems arising out of poor soil conditions, steep slopes and
lack of vegetation cover. There is a severe shortage of water and steps are
currently being taken by the Bauchi State Water Board to boost the supply by
a program of drilling boreholes.
2.34      In order to improve the poor sanitary conditions, the project would
provide a package of minimal but impact-intensive programs in environmental
sanitation. The programs would include the following improvements to
infrastructure:
Roads. Three roads to district-road standards to the area
totaling 2.32 km would be provided with a 4 meter laterite
surface, giving vehicular access to within 150 meters of
all compounds.
Drainage.  The roads would be provided with earth drainage
channels on both sides. As an experiment, and in an
effort to minimize the ill-effects of the discharge of
domestic waste water, some roads would be dished and
provided with a central drain. In order to reduce erosion
and improve unsanitary conditions resulting from poor
drainage, in the areas with steepest gradients, 17 concrete
drop structures would be constructed in collector drains
to reduce the speed of flows. Existing drainage channels,
1.6 kilometers long, would be cleaned out and trimmed to
adequate slope and levels. The network of drainage
channels would be linked up and culverts provided to
effect improved flows. The above improvements would be
confined to the developed areas of Bolari.



- 25 -
Water. Water would be provided by standpipe at the rate
of one per 400 persons. The two existing boreholes would
be connected to a distribution main to serve the standpipe
supply. A contingency provision would be made for connect-
ing an additional borehole already drilled, to the network.
Refuse Collection and Landscaping. Refuse collection
points would be provided along vehicular routes for
collection by refuse vehicles. Each point would consist
of a cluster of empty oil drums within a distance of
150 meters of all areas. Substantial environmental
improvement would result from an improved collection and
disposal service. The main north-south road in the center
of Bolari, presently serving as the commercial area, would
be planted with shade trees to form the main pedestrian
dominated area. Other open areas would be developed by
planting additional shade trees.
(B) Assistance to Gombe Local Government Authority (US$.2 million)
2.35      Two man-months of technical assistance of a solid wastes expert
would be provided to study and develop systems for an improved refuse col-
lection and disposal service for Gombe. This assistance would cost N3,250
(US$5,005) per man-month (see Annex 2). The existing two refuse vehicles
would be supplemented by the provision of an additional three side-loader
refuse trucks including spares and start-up costs.
2.36      Twelve man-months of local technical assistance starting in July
1979 would be provided to assist the LGA to improve the existing maintenance
services in Gombe. Regular cleaning of drainage channels, maintenance of
roads and demonstration of simple and appropriate means of drainage and waste
water disposal would constitute the main features of this assistance. Local
technical assistance costs would be N700 (US$1,078) per man-month.
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      The estimated total cost' of the project is N23.76 million (US$36.59
million), of which US$12.16 million or 33% is foreign exchange, including
physical and price contingencies. Excluding taxes and duties estimated at
-NO.66 million (US$1.0 million), project costs equal N23.10 million (US$35.59
million). Project costs in dollar terms would be affected by a change in
exchange rate policy. In the event of a 25% devaluation, the local component
of project costs would be lower when expressed in dollar terms. Under this
assumption, the local component would amount to US$19.5 million compared with



- 26 -
the US$24.4 million estimated on the basis of the present exchange rate.
Total project cost would then amount to only US$31.6 million compared with
US$36.6 million estimated on the basis of the present exchange rate. It is
expected that the project would be executed during the period 1980-82, with
final design and detailed engineering starting in the first half of 1979.
Table III-1 presents a breakdown of costs for each component and includes
estimated physical and price contingencies for the execution period. The cost
of land to be transferred from customary to legal occupancy in Makama, amount-
ing to a maximum of N350,000 (US$539,000) is not included in total project
cost estimates. It was agreed during the appraisal mission that current
occupants of project sites would be compensated by Bauchi State Government
prior to the presentation of the project to the Board. The expenditures
covering these land costs will take place before project execution begins
and are therefore not to be included in the project cost table. They will,
however, be included in the charges to the project beneficiaries (para 2.16).
3.02      Cost estimates for the project are based on preliminary engineering
studies prepared by the consultants to the Bauchi State Development Board.
Costs and standards developed for the civil works represent a reduction from
previous practices and result from discussions between the consultants, the
Bauchi State Development Board, and Bank missions. The standards have been
endorsed by the Bauchi State Government Steering Committee. Base costs have
been updated to April 1, 1979. The rates for civil works currently in progress
supply and shelter construction have been obtained from contractors in Bauchi
and Gombe. Worksheets for quantities of individual components have been
prepared by the consultants and have been developed in the standard form for.
bills of quantities. These worksheets cover sites and services, upgrading,
the industrial estate, and off-site works for Bauchi, and Gombe environmental
sanitation.
3.03      Contingencies for the project are based on allowances of about 15%
for physical contingencies for civil works. Price contingencies are based on
the projected average inflation rates for Nigeria through the project period
1979-82. The following annual rates have been applied to April 1979 prices as
constant through the project period:
Local labor                        13%
Local materials                    20%
Foreign materials and labor         7%



_ 27 -
NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table III-1: SUMKARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES*
(April 1979 Priees)
Percent
Percent      of
W'OOO                            USS '000              Foreign    Total
Local     Foreign   Total         Local     Foreikn   Total      Exchange   Cost
FEDERAL LEVEL: Federal Mortgage
Bank of Nigeria
197.5     189.4      386.9       304.2      291.7      595.8     49.0       2.2
I. AR*iRtance FMBN Operations
II.  Assistance Project Development Dept.         897.3      307.9   1,205.1      1,381.8      474.2   1,855.9      25.6       6.7
III.  Project Feasibility Studies                1,152.4   1,105.1   2,257.5       1,774.7   1,701.9   3,476.6       49.0      12.9
Subtotal Federal Level Base Cost           2,247.2   1,602.4   3,849.5       3,460.7   2,467.8   5,928.3      41.6      22.0
BAUCHI STATE:
IV.  Sites and Services                           602.0      413.0   1,015.0        927.1      636.0   1,563.1      40.7       5.8
V.  Upgrading                                    827.2      739.8   1,566.9      1,273.9   1,139.3   2,413.0       47.2      8.9
VI.  Off-site Infrastructure                       352.3     365.9      718.0       542.5      563.5   1,105.7      51.0       4.1
VII.  Construction Loans                         4,524.8   1,739.4   6,264.1       6.968.2   2,678.7   9,646.7       27.8      35.7
VIII.  Employment:  Industrial Estate                 83.9     120.1      204.0       129.2      185.0      314.2     58.9       1.2
IX.  Social Services                            1,177.2      741.5   1,918.7      1,812.9   1,141.9   2,954.8       38.6     10.9
X.  Local Government Authority                    78.4       58.9      137.3       120.7       90.7     211.4      42.9      0.8
Assistance Bauchi Town
XI.  Technical Assistance Bauchi State
Development Board                          599.8      304.4     904.3        923.7     468.8   1,392.6       33.7      5.2
XII.  Environmental Sanitation Gombe                143.4      69.1      212.5        220.8     106.4      327.3     32.5       1.2
[III. Local Government Authority
Assistance Gombe                             50.7       58.9     109.7         78.1       90.7     168.9      53.7      0.6
XIV.  Health Center Gombe                            57.1      37.7       94.7         87.9      58.1      145.8     39.8       0.5
XV.  Project Preparation Study                     225.0     225.0      450.0        346.5     346.5      693.0     50.0       2.6
Subtotal Bauchi State Base Cost            8,721.8   4,873.7  13,595.2    13,431.6   7,505.6  20,936.5         35.8     7S.0
Subtotal Project Base Cost                10,969.0   6,476.1  17,444.7    16.892.3   9,973.4  26,864.8        37.1    100.0
XVI.  Physical Contingencies                        457.8     352.8      810.8        705.0     543.3   1,248.6      43.5       -
M  I.  Price Contingencies                        4,435.3   1,069.2   5,504.5       6,830.4   1,646.6   8,476.9       22.5      -
Subtotal Contingencies                     4,893.1   1,422.0   6,315.3       7,535.4   2,189.9   9,725.5
IOTAL PROJECT COST                        15,862.1   7,898.1  23,760.0    24,427.7  12,163.3  36.590.3         33.2      -
*Any inconsistencies are due to rounding.



- 28 -
B. Financing Plan
3.04      The financing plan for the project is based on agreements between
the Federal Military Government, Bauchi State Government, and the FMBN,
whereby the costs would be shared according to the following formula:
World Bank                         50%
BSG                                30%
FMBN                               20%
The World Bank share would cover 100% of the foreign costs (N7.90 million),
and 23% of local costs (N3.66 million).   Retroactive financing, to cover
expenditures for project components for which implementation will start prior
to loan effectiveness, is estimated to amount to approximately US$300,000.
Retroactive financing may take place for expenditures for the Project Develop-
ment Department of the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria, project feasibility
studies, and detailed engineering and design.
3.05      The appraisal mission recommends that the Federal Ministry of
Finance be the borrower and make the proceeds of the World Bank loan available
to FMBN at an interest rate of 6% for 20 years, with a grace period of 5 years.
It is not considered feasible to propose an increase of the rate of interest
in 1979 (para 4.06). However, since this on-lending rate of interest is a
subsidized one, it was also agreed that, in the event that the interest rate
prescribed for residential housing by the competent monetary authorities
should be raised to more than 10 percent, the FMBN would adjust its service
charge in such a way that the effective interest rate (including service
charges) to the beneficiaries under this project would be no less than the
interest rate officially prescribed for residential housing. It was agreed
that a provision to this effect would be included in the subsidiary loan
agreement between the FMBN and the BSDB. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations concerning this on-lending arrangement (para. 7.02). FMBN would
pass on the funds to its Bauchi branch which would on-lend funds amounting
to N2.89 million (US$4.45 million), covering sites and services and the World
Bank share of upgrading costs (see Table III-3), to the Bauchi State Develop-
ment Board. The loan to BSDB would be for 5 years, at an effective rate of
interest of 10% (para 4.06), payable by a one time charge on each of the
individual loans to households for the amount of plot charge applicable in
each case. Thus BSDB payments on the loan are made contingent on the pay-
ments by the beneficiaries. Mortgage payments, collected by FMBN, will be
written off from BSDB debt servicing. It was agreed at negotiations that
the signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to the Bank between FMG
and FMBN and FMBN and BSDB would be a condition of effectiveness (see paras.
7.03-7.04). Funds amounting to N9.07 million (US$13.97 million) would be
lent directly by the Bauchi branch of FMBN to participating households in
Bauchi for home construction and improvement loans. The terms of individual
mortgages would be for 15 years with the nominal rate of interest at 6% plus
an administrative service charge, increasing the effective rate of interest
to about 10%, as described in para 4.06.



- 29 -
3.06      Non-recoverable project costs amounting to N6.41 million (US$9.87
million) and an additional N.89 million (US$1.37 million) for upgrading will
be financed directly by Bauchi State Government through annual budgetary
allocations as indicated in Table III-3. These amount together to 30% of
total project costs. These sums vary between 1 and 2% per year of the 1978
BSG annual capital budget and less than 1% of the total 1978 annual BSG
budget. They are thus not expected to create major financial problems for
the state during the project period. The BSDB would serve as the executing
agency for Bauchi State Government and be responsible for project expenditures.
Special arrangements to assure the scheduled availability of counterpart
funds will be made at negotiations and be included in the Loan and Project
Agreements (see para. 7.02). Financing under this plan would require the
following annual allocations by each funding institution:
Table III-2
ANNUAL ALLOCATIONS BY FUNDING SOURCE
(N '000)
% of Total
1979     1980      1981     1982.    Total   Project Cost
Federal Level
World Bank         1,018.5  2,165.8  1,239.8      50.7  4,474.8        19
Bauchi Project
World Bank            83.9  1,053.2  3,740.7  2,205.8  7,083.6         30
BSG                1,053.7  2,166.5  2,720.7  1,380.1  7,321.0        31
FMBN                 110.4    437.1  2,386.6  1,946.5  4,880.6         20
Subtotal        1,248.0  3,656.8  8,848.0  5,532.4 19,285.2        81
TOTAL           2,266.5  5,822.6 10,087.8  5,583.1 23,760.0        100
3.07      Table III-3 presents the'summary financing plan for the project.



- 30 -
NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE III-3   SUMhARY FINANCING PLAN
N '000                                        US$ '000
BSG       FMBN         WB       TOTAL          BSG              FMBN         WB        TOTAL
FEDERAL LEVEL: FHBN
Technical Assistance FMBN Operations  -             -            474.2     474.2        -                 -            730.3       730.3
Assistance Project Development Unit   -            -          1,414.7   1,414.7         -                -          2,178.6    2,178.6
Project Feasibility Studies              -                    2.585.8   2.585.8         -                 -         3,982.3    3,982.3
Subtotal Federal Level                -          -          4,474.8   4,474.8         -                -          6,891.2    6,891.2
BAUCHI STATE:
Sites and Services                       -                    1,484.0   1,484.0         -                -          2,285.4    2,285.4
Upgrading                                886.7     -          1,405.7   2,292.4        1,365.5            -         2,164.8    3,530.3
Off-site Infrastructure                1,036.6     -           -         1,036.6       1,596.4            -          -          1,596.4
Construction Loans                       -       4,880.6      4,193.8   9,074.5         -               7,516.2     6,458.5   13,974.7
Industrial Estate                        279.7     -           -           279.7         430.7           -           -            430.7
Social Services                       2,865.4      -           -         2,865.4       4,412.7            -          -          4,412.7
Local Government Authority
Assistance Bauchi                     162.1      -           -           162.1         249.6           -           -            249.6
Technical Assistance to Bauchi
State Development Board             1,091.2      -           -         1,091.2       1,680.4           -           -          1,680.4
Environmental Sanitation Gombe           304.4     -           -           304.4         468.8           -           -            468.8
Local Government Authority
* Assistance Gombe                       126.7      -          -           126.7         195.1            -           -            195.1
Health Center Gombe                      118.3     -           -           118.3         182.2           -           -            182.2
Project Preparation Study                450.0     -           -           450.0         693.0           -           -            693.0
Subtotal Bauchi State               7,321.0   4,880.6       7.083.6  19.285.3       11.274.4         7,516.2    10,908.8   29,699.4
TOTAL                                  7.321.0   4,880.6    11.558.4  23 760.1        11,274.4         7.516.2    17,800.0   36.590 6
Total Taxed                                                                655.2                                                1,009.0
GRAND TOTAL (Net of Taxes)                                              23,104.9                                               35.581 6



- 31 -
3.08      In order to assure that BSG and FMBN have the necessary funds during
the project period, the mission obtained assurances (1) from the Bauchi State
Commissioner of Finance that the BSG would include the requisite sums in the
1979-80 budget and 1980-85 State Development Plan, and (2) from the FMBN
Managing Director that FMBN would provide for funds within its cash reserves
and projected cash flow.
3.09      Flow of Funds:  The flow of funds is presented below:
FIGURE -ll-1: FLOW OF FUNDS
Recoverable            Non-Recoverable
(Schools, clinics.
World Bank             and off-site infra-
structure)
| Federai Military Gov_mnt 
Bauchi Branch FMBN      Bauchi State Development Board  Bauchi State Government
(Shelter Loans)                Contractors           n3tr
On-Site Infrasturcture
3E gages  --                Househdds
World Bank - 20164



- 32 -
3.10      Statements of the sources and application of funds for FMBN the
Bauchi branch of FMBN, and BSDB are presented in Annex 4. The financial
impact of the project on FMBN is analyzed in paras. 4.10-4.12.
C. Procurement and Disbursements
3.11      Contracts for the procurement of refuse collection vehicles and
spares (totalling N105,000 or about US$160,000) will be let on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with World Bank guidelines.
Domestic manufacturers will be given a preference margin of 15% or the appli-
cable customs duty, whichever is lower, in accordance with World Bank guide-
lines.
3.12      Contracts for civil and building works for a total value estimated
at N7.9 million (US$12.2 million) are likely to be individually small and so
phased that they are not expected to attract any foreign contractors. They
will thus be let on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures which
were reviewed by the mission and found acceptable to the World Bank. If,
however, contracts exceed US$500,000, such contracts will be let on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with World Bank guidelines.
Local bidders are expected to win all contracts.
3.13      Consultants and advisory services for detailed engineering under
the technical assistance component will be procured individually on terms
and conditions acceptable to the World Bank.
3.14      Small contracts for US$50,000 or less for items of equipment
materials or supplies to be compatible with existing equipment, or items
which, because of their specialized nature and for reasons of economy are
normally provided without international competition bidding, will be awarded
after obtaining price quotations from at least three suppliers. Contracts
of less than US$100,000 but over US$50,000 will be subject to local competi-
tive bidding.
3.15      Bids for works will be invited from prequalified contractors.  BSWB
and NEPA may be able to undertake certain work components by force account
but would in any case be expected to submit bids to BSDB to ensure that the
most economic and efficient means be employed. The BSDB will coordinate
with BSWB, NEPA and the Ministries of Education and Health in evaluating
bids to ensure that contractors meet required standards. Bidding and award
of contracts will conform to World Bank guidelines for procurement.
3.16      Disbursement of the proceeds of the World Bank loan would be made on
the following basis:
(a)  100% of expenditures for project feasibility studies;
(b) 100% of expenditures for (i) consultancy services and
establishment expenses of PDD; (ii) technical assistance
(FMBN operations); and (iii) final engineering and super-
vision of on-site civil works;



- 33 -
(c) 75% of expenditures for on-site civil works for sites
and services and upgrading; and
(d) 45% of expenditures by FMBN for home construction and
improvement loans, in amounts per category.
3.17      Disbursements for expenditures under (a) and (c) will be made
against contracts; under (b) and (d) against fully documented statements of
expenditures by the executing agencies who will maintain records for review
of supervision missions. A schedule of estimated disbursements of the World
Bank loan is presented in Table III-4. Any undisbursed balance at the end of
project implementation would be cancelled.
D. Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements
3.18      FMBN and BSDB would keep separate accounts for project components
under their respective responsibility. Government would cause the accounts of
FMBN and BSDB to be audited by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank,
and audited accounts together with the auditors' report would be submitted
to the Bank within nine months of the close of each financial year. In addi-
tion, Government would make arrangements, satisfacto-ry to the Bank, for the
independent audit of expenditures covering disbursements under the IBRD Loan.
The auditors' opinion would cover that: (i) goods and services have been
procured from Bank member countries and Switzerland; (ii) goods have been
received or work performed; (iii) payments have been made; and (iv) the goods
and services are eligible for financing under the Loan Agreement and have been
used for the purpose of the project.   In the case of FMBN, assurances will be
obtained at negotiations that an audit covering the 1979 financial year would
be provided to the World Bank by December 31, 1980. Assurances on these
matters were obtained from Government during negotiations.



- 34 -
Table III-4
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Bank Fiscal Year
Amount                             x
Quarter       Date           Disbursed   Cumulative  Cumulative  Disbursed
FY80       2     Dec. 31, 1979           1.2           1.2                  7
3     March 30, 1980           .9           2.1                 12
4     June 30, 1980            .9           3.0                 17
FY81       1     Sept. 30, 1980          1.5           4.5                 25
2     Dec. 31, 1980           1.2           5.7                32
3     March 30, 1981         1.2            6.9                39
4     June 30, 1981          1.0            7.9                44
FY82       1     Sept. 30, 1981          1.6           9.5                 53
2     Dec. 31, 1981          1.6           11.1                62
3     March 30, 1982         1.6           12.7                71
4     June 30, 1982          1.5           14.2                80
FY83       1     Sept. 30, 1982           .9          15.1                 85
2     Dec. 31, 1982            .9          16.0                90
3     March 30, 1983           .9          16.9                95
4     June 30, 1983            .9          17.8               100
IV. COST RECOVERY AND FINANCIAL IMPACT
A. Cost Recovery and Pricing
4.01       Cost recovery sources for project elements are as follows:



- 35 -
Cost Items                                  Recovery Source
Federal Level
1.  Technical Assistance - FMBN Operations       Not recovered
2.  Assistance to PDD                            Half recovered through
administrative charges to
State Governments
3.  Project Feasibility Studies                  State Governments
Bauchi State
1.  Land                                         Plot Charges
2. On-Site Infrastructure
Roads
Drainage
Water
Electricity
Sanitation
Foul Drainage
Site Works
Refuse Bins and Landscaping
3. Off-Site Infrastructure
Water                                      Water Tariffs
Electricity                                Electricity Tariffs
Roads                                      Not Recovered
Drainage
4.  Detailed Engineering and Supervision         Plot Charges
5.  Construction Loans                           Loan Repayments by Beneficiaries
6. Shelter Improvement Loans
7. Infrastructure Cost for
Industrial Estate                            Plot Sales
8.  Schools, Clinics and Health Center           Not Recovered
9.  Assistance to Municipalities
10. Technical Assistance
11. Gombe Environmental Sanitation                    "



- 36 -
Using the above recovery sources, 100% of allocable 1/ costs are recovered
directly from households participating in the Bauchi project. For the whole
project, including both the Federal and Bauchi components, some 70% of total
costs are recovered directly from beneficiaries.
Sites and Services and Infill
4.02      Land, on-site investments such as roads, drainage, the water dis-
tribution system, soakaways, pit latrines, design and engineering, and super-
vision will be charged to individual plot holders. The recovery of these
costs represents a major step forward in northern Nigeria where such costs
are usually not charged in layouts provided by the public sector. The cost
of water consumed through public standpipes will not, however, be recovered
in the project. The State Government has recently created a State Water Board
which is developing a state-wide approach to investment and recovery in the
sector.
4.03      Annex 5, Table 1 presents the monthly charges for households accord-
ing to plot options and construction loan amounts. Annex 5, Table 1 refleats
the use of differential pricing among the four types of plots, in the sites
and services area. Recipients of 40% of Plot A types, which will be given
less desirable locations, will pay only 25% of the infrastructure development
cost. The remainder will be distributed in ratio of 1:3 on plot types B and
C. The differential pricing formula reduces the cost of the smaller plots
within the sites and services area to levels which are affordable by house-
holds earning N65 per month. This differential pricing policy was approved
by the Steering Committee of the Bauchi State Government which voted to
incorporate this type of differential pricing in order to reach lower in the
income distribution.  While application of differential pricing is new in
northern Nigeria, the proposed scheme is relatively simple and is not expected
to create problems in implementation.
4.04      By applying the above approach to a distribution of plot types with
25%, 35%, 20%, and 20%, respectively, and assuming household size of eight
persons, approximately 85% of the project households in the sites and services
area would have incomes below the 1978 World Bank urban poverty threshold of
US$302 per capita per year (see paras. 4.13-4.17).
4.05      The cost recovery system for sites and services and infill areas
will be administered by the Bauchi branch of FMBN (see para. 5.05). Partici-
pating households, to demonstrate their ability to pay, will establish savings
accounts with FMBN and deposit sums equal to the subsequent total monthly
mortgage and service charges (see para 4.06) for 10 months, starting not less
than 10 months prior to the allocation of plots and the granting of loans.
These sums will then be applied as downpayments to the cost of plots. The
remainder will be recovered through monthly mortgage payments over 15 years.
1/   Allocable costs include land, on-site infrastructure, final design and
engineering, supervision, and a proportion of off-site infrastructure
benefiting participating households.



- 37 -
4.06      The interest rate charged to beneficiaries in sites and services,
upgrading, and infill areas for both plot development costs and home construc-
tion and improvement loans will be 6% for 15 years. This rate is substan-
tially below the projected annual inflation rate of about 20% and is therefore
negative. The rate is fixed each year by the Monetary Circular of the Central
Bank of Nigeria after discussions with the Federal Executive Council and
could not be changed in the context of this project. This rate was increased
from 3% to 6% in 1978 and it is not feasible to propose an increase in 1979.
However, in order to recover project related administrative costs, F`dBN will
impose additional service charges. These charges will recover costs of loan
origination and disbursement, costs of routine processing and overheads and
include a default provision and loan yield. The disbursement costs are
estimated at 8 man-hours per loan, the routine processing costs at 3 man-hours
per loan per year and the overheads are estimated at 100%. Approximately 10%
of the service charge is reserved as default provision and loan yield. The
charges amount to a flat premium of 3% on the full original loan, during its
life, for all mortgagees, with the exception of holders of the A plot type
(Annex 6, Table 1). As a measure of price differentiation, the administrative
costs for the latter category will be recovered from the remaining mortgagees.
Thus, the overall service charge on all loans combined, amounts to approxi-
mately 2.75%. This flat premium, on the full loan, during its life, is
equivalent to about 4 percentage points interest, above the nominal rate of
6%, on the basis of the decreasing balance computation. As a result, the
effective rate of interest will be 10%. The appraisal mission obtained
agreement on principle and procedure of added service charges and the higher
effective rate of interest with FMBN, CBN and the Federal Ministry of Finance.
It is included in a separate schedule to the project agreement with FMBN which
will define the method for computation of monthly charges in the project. It
should be noted, however, that it is standard practice in Nigeria to adjust
all the interest rates on outstanding mortgage loans each time the interest
rate is increased. Any subsequent increase therefore would be applied retro-
actively to loans made under this project as well.
4.07      Any failure to pay mortgage charges for either plot development
costs or for home construction and improvement loans will be remedied by the
eviction of the defaulting borrower from the property and the repurchase of
the occupancy permit and house by the Bauchi State Development Board. This
procedure is already well established in Bauchi and has been carried out
through the joint efforts of the State Ministry of Works, Housing, Lands,
and Survey and the State Ministry of Justice. The repurchased plot would
then be resold by BSDB to an eligible household. The Bauchi State Government
has agreed to guarantee the recovery of all loans made by FMBN and therefore
will have a strong incentive to carry out the above procedures.
Upgrading
4.08      The recovery of investment costs for the upgrading scheme will
include the same components as in the sites and services scheme: land, roads,
drainage, water distribution system, soakaways, pit latrines, design, engineer-
ing, and supervision. The costs of these improvements, however, will be less



- 38 -
on a per plot basis. In addition, 50% of households in the upgrading area
will be offered N500 or N1,000 optional home improvement loans in cash
(see para 4.16). Loans for plot development costs and home improvement
combined will be at 6% per year for 15 years. Mortgage service charges are
additional. Loan terms as well as service charges are similar as for mort-
gages in the sites and servcies and infill categories, as described in para
4.06.
4.09      The cost recovery system for upgrading will be administered by the
Bauchi Local Government Authority (see para. 5.11). This system was strongly
recommended by the Bauchi State Government because the Bauchi LGA was the
institution in daily contact with the Makama community and could therefore
use traditional authorities to ensure that the upgrading charges were col-
lected from the community. The project includes the costs of additional
community development personnel for this purpose. The LGA would turn over
its monthly collections to the Bauchi branch of FMBN which credit the funds
against the FMBN loan to BSDB.
B.   Financial Impact on FMBN
4.10      The establishment of the above cost recovery system emphasizes
the financial role of FMBN in the project and seeks to demonstrate how FMBN
should organize its operations throughout the country. The financial impact
of this system on FMBN is thus extremely important in terms of the financial
replicability of similar state-level operations elsewhere in Nigeria. The
system reflects three principles which should also be applied to other FMBN
operations:
(1) increased cash generation through improved receivables
collection;
(2) control of operating expenditures; and
(3) control of portfolio growth.
The recoverable parts of the Bauchi pilot project, which are financed by
FMBN, are intended to be entirely self-financing, with mortgage payments from
beneficiaries covering the cost of capital to FMBN, and administrative costs,
creating a positive yield for FMBN. Within the overall FMBN cash flow for
the period 1979-1984, the pilot project pays for itself.
4.11      In addition to this positive result of the pilot project, the
implementation of the consolidation strategy described in para. 1.18 is
expected to significantly improve the financial condition of FMBN. Improved
collections from the present 88% up to 95% are expected to generate an addi-
tional N450,000 per month for the next 24 months if delinquent accounts
are properly computed, monitored and collected. Similarly, the adoption by
FMBN management of a restrictive administrative expenditure budget for the
period 1979-84 will improve the overall cash position. These two measures,
which will reverse erosion of FMBN capital, will complement a reduced rate
of portfolio growth for conventional lending for middle-income housing.



- 39 -
4.12      A period of consolidation is required before further expansion
can be undertaken on a sound financial basis. The concurrent reduction
in the rate of growth of conventional mortgage lending by FMBN for the
project is based on available internal financing only from 1981-82. This
action is intended to encourage the maximum collection of mortage receivables
to enable FMBN to meet new mortgage commitments. The improvements resulting
from this strategy are illustrated by improved financial ratios presented in
Annex 4, Table 2.
C. Affordability and Urban Poverty Impact
4.13      As noted in para. 1.08, approximately 20% of the Bauchi town popula-
tion have incomes below the minimum public wage of N65 (US$100) per month for
a household of six, which is below the Nigeria relative urban poverty thres-
hold. This proportion also applies to the Makama neighborhood in which
upgrading programs will occur. The average household size in Makama being
eight persons, the corresponding relative poverty threshold is N131 (US$201).
Some 48% of the Makama population has incomes below this threshold. The
project provides shelter and infrastructure for households between the 20th
and the 53rd percentile of the Makama income distribution. The project is
designed in such a way that 90% of the households in the upgrading area and
85% of the households eligible for both the sites and services area and the
infill area would have incomes below the relative urban poverty threshold.
Of the 5,850 plots in the three areas combined, about 5,070 plots or 87% would
be affordable by households with incomes below this threshold. The remaining
13% would range from the 48th to the 53rd percentile of the income distribution.
4.14      Given the above, the sites and services and infill components of
the project are designed to provide shelter for households at the N65 or 20th
percentile level, as well as for income groups up to N141 or the 53rd percen-
tile of the Bauchi town income distribution. The upgrading component will
improve conditions for everyone presently residing in Makama. Annex 5,
Figure 1 presents the income distribution of the town as well as that of the
Makama neighborhood in which the project will be located.
4.15      Annex 5, Tables 1 and 2 present the costs and monthly charges of the
sites and services, infill, and upgrading programs respectively, as well as
the inicome groups for which the program is affordable. The number of plots
offered for each type was calculated on the basis of the estimated demand by
households at each income level.
4.16      On the basis of the information contained in Annex 5, it is esti-
mated that 80% of the cost of the Bauchi pilot project would serve households
below the urban poverty threshold. This represents 69% of total project costs
for the first project.



- 40 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Institutional Responsibilities for Project Execution
5.01      The proposed project would be executed jointly by the Federal
and state governments. The Federal Ministry of Finance would be the borrower,
with FMBN as the intermediary for both FMBN and World Bank funds in the
project.  Responsibilities for project execution would be shared and are
presented below in Figure V-1.
Figure V-1: INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PROJECT EXECUTION
Function                                      Agency Responsible
Federal Level
Policy Formulation                                 FNWH
Program Coordination                               FMWH
Project Monitoring                                 FMWH/FMBN
Supervision of Project Feasibility Studies         FMBN/FMWH
Supervision of Bauchi Branch of FMBN               FMBN
Bauchi State
Project Coordination                               BSDB
Land Transfer                                      BSDB (with State Ministry
of Works, Housing, Lands,
and Survey and Bauchi Local
Government Authority)
Preparation of Final Design, Bidding
Documents, Evaluation of Bids, Preparation
of Contracts                                       BSDB
Supervision of Construction Works for all
Infrastructure, Housing, and Social Services       BSDB
Monitoring                                         BSDB
Household Selection                                Bauchi LGA/BSDB/FMBN-Bauchi
Provision of Construction/Improvement Loans
(Sites and Services/Infill)                        FMBN-Bauchi
Recovery of Plot Charges and Mortgage Payments   FMBN-Bauchi
Recovery of Upgrading Charges                      Bauchi LGA
Maintenance                                        Bauchi and Gombe LGAs
Refuse Collection                                  Bauchi and Gombe LGAs
Community Information and Participation            Bauchi and Gombe LGAs



- 41 -
B. Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
5.02      As noted in paragraphs 1.09 and 1.10, the Federal Ministry of
Works and Housing has overall responsibility for policy in housing and urban
development in Nigeria. Its Housing, Lands, and Urban Development Division
is the unit within FMWH which has daily operational jurisdiction over the
urban sector and determines whether and how external resources are to be used
for urban development programs. Despite its potentially wide-ranging policy
functions, the Division has only recently been able to recruit and expand its
staff. The combination of previously separate responsibilities into this
Division in late 1978 offers an opportunity to strengthen its policy and
coordination role within the sector.
5.03      Within the proposed project, the Division would have responsibility
for the monitoring of the Bauchi pilot project to determine its applicability
to other states in Nigeria. The Division would make recommendations on the
choice of states for the five project preparation studies, review the terms
of reference for the studies, and then together with the Project Development
Department of FMBN, supervise the studies. While these activities do not
require expenditures to be made under the project, it is intended that
they will provide needed experience to the young staff of the Division and
familiarize them with project preparation and issues.concerning low-cost
housing and infrastructure. As project preparation studies eventually become
projects, it is expected that the Division would play an increasing coordina-
tion function.
C. Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
5.04      The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria will perform several essential
functions in the project, at both the Federal and state levels. At the
Federal level, FMBN will provide 20% of the financing of total project costs
out of its own resources.  It will act as the intermediary for the proceeds
of the World Bank loan, on-lending it to the Bauchi State Development Board
(see para. 3.05). Simultaneously, it will finance and supervise the project
preparation studies in seven additional states through its Project Development
Department (PDD) to be created by April 1979. The PDD wil also supervise the
activities of the Bauchi branch of FMBNn
5.05      At the state level, the Bauchi branch of FMBN will carry out the
following responsibilities. It will provide mortgage loans covering plot
development costs in the sites and services and infill areas and home construc-
tion and improvement loans to households in sites and services, infill, and
upgrading areas. The project-related costs to the Bauchi branch will be
recovered from the project beneficiaries through administrative charges added
to mortgage payments. These have been projected in detail by FMBN management,
including personnel required for processing loan applications and recovery
and registration of mortgage payments. FMWB will thus be the primary cost
recovery agent for on-site infrastructure and housing improvements, with the



- 42 -
exception of upgrading costs (see paras. 4.09 and 5.11). The Bauchi branch
will maintain separate accounts for all project loans and beneficiaries (see
para.3.18). It will be staffed by a Nigerian branch manager, an interna-
tionally recruited technical assistant serving as senior accountant to estab-
lish the accounting system for the project, and several clerical staff.
5.06      As noted in paras. 1.12-1.19, FMBN has numerous institutional and
financial problems which are in the process of remedy. The project prepara-
tion process has permitted the appraisal team to identify issues and recommend
short- and medium-term actions to strengthen FMBN operations. Despite its
difficulties, FMBN has made significant progress in improving its operations,
including completing and evaluating audits, adopting new accounting proce-
dures, redeploying staff, and seeking to establish a sounder financial base.
It is expected that progress over the past six months will be accelerated
with the recent approval of the capitalization proposal for FMBN, the creation
of the PDD, and involvement in this project.  The management of FMBN is
enthusiastic about its involvement in the project. On the basis of the above,
the appraisal mission considers FMBN to be sufficiently strong to effectively
carry out its responsibilities within the project. Prudently, the project
design isolates the major problems of FMBN from the specific execution of
the Bauchi project and the creation of the PDD. Both the Bauchi branch of
FMBN and the PDD will operate as independent entities, with separate accounts,
and thereby diminish the risk of poor performance at FMBN headquarters affect-
ing the first urban development project.
D. Bauchi State Development Board
5.07      The Bauchi State Development Board is the primary executing agency
for the project at the state level. BSDB has supervised the preparation of
the project by consultants, has organized the Steering Committee of Bauchi
State Government to review the numerous reports produced during project
preparation, and has been designated as the coordinating agency by the
Bauchi State Government. To date, the BSDB has carried out its functions
under the project quite effectively. BSDB will be responsible for the
following activities: land transfer (with the State Ministry of Works,
Housing, Lands, and Survey), supervision of consultants' preparation of
detailed engineering, final design, and bidding documents, evaluation of
bids, preparation of contracts, supervision of all construction works for
all infrastructure, housing, and social services, and project coordination.
All of these activities have been performed by BSDB in the past and do not
present major institutional problems.
5.08      A project unit was established in BSDB in May 1979, to carry out the
above activities. This unit will be staffed by an experienced internationally
recruited project manager (three and a half years) and include the following
technical assistants: civil engineer (two years), architect-planner (one
year), senior accountant (three years), and an expert in building materials
and construction techniques (three years). These technical assistants will
work with and train Nigerian counterparts, including a civil engineer,



- 43 -
architect-planner, socio-economist, and an accountant. The unit will also
recruit two assistant works superintendents to provide on-site supervision
of construction works. All of this staff, with the exception of the senior
accountant, building materials expert, and the latter two assistant works
superintendents joined the unit in May 1979, with the others starting work
in January 1980. Many of the staff have already been recruited.
5.09      This unit is responsible for coordination with the other agencies
particularly the Bauchi and Gombe Local Government Authorities, which will
work directly with the existing population in the area to be upgraded and
participate in the process by which new households will be selected for plots
in the sites and services and infill areas (see paras. 2.18 and 5.10). It
will also coordinate with the State Ministry of Health and the Health Manage-
ment Board in the construction of the clinics and maternal-child welfare
center. All designs will be provided by the Ministry of Health (MOH) whose
Principal Medical Officer (MOH) will coordinate the staffing and initial
equipping of the facilities with the civil works implementation schedules.
On completion, the buildings will be commissioned by the Bauchi State Health
Management Board, the body responsible for operational administration of all
health facilities. In turn, the MOH will be responsible for future planning,
staffing and budgeting requirements as dictated by the utilization patterns.
Similar arrangements will apply to primary schools in which the State Ministry
of Education will be responsible for staffing the schools and advising BSDB on
design and construction. Maintenance will be the responsibility of the Bauchi
Local Government Authority. BSDB will also work with the State Ministry of
Trade and Industry for the construction and administration of the industrial
estate.
E. Bauchi Local Government Authority
5.10      The Bauchi Local Government Authority will have several different
responsibilities under the project. Its most important function will be
in communication with the population of Makama, informing the population
of upgrading procedures and assuring that the disruption caused by infra-
structure improvements will be minimal. The community development section of
the LGA will be enlarged for this purpose. Funds are allocated for additional
personnel under the project. The Bauchi LGA will also participate in the
household selection process for the sites and services and infill areas.
A committee of ward leaders throughout the town will be created under the
authority of the LGA to screen households meeting selection criteria: dis-
placed households in upgrading area, income, residence in Bauchi town, and no
ownership of other dwellings (see para. 2.18). Final selection would be made
by lottery managed by a committee including members of the BSDB, the Bauchi
LGA, the FMBN Branch Manager, and a representative of the State Ministry of
Works and Housing. The LGA will thus have contact with every household
included in the sites and services, infill, and upgrading areas.



- 44 -
5.11      As noted in para. 4.09, the Bauchi LGA will also act as the collec-
tion agent for the upgrading scheme, using its contacts with the traditional
leaders in Makama to assure that upgrading charges are collected in an effec-
tive and equitable manner. The LGA, or its predecessor, the local government
council, has a long history of collecting charges from the community.
5.12      In addition to the above, the Bauchi LGA will also participate
in the project through the reinforcement of their refuse collection systems.
This will be achieved through short-term technical assistance to develop an
effective refuse collection system for Bauchi and the purchase of three addi-
tional refuse vehicles to supplement the existing fleet of trucks. The LGA
will also recruit local technical assistance to improve its maintenance
programs for roads and drainage ditches in the town.
5.13      While the Bauchi LGA was only recently created in 1976, its assigned
functions under this project will be as those performed by local governments
in Nigeria since the colonial period. It is expected that the LGA can effec-
tively perform its important, but limited, tasks in the project.
F. Gombe Local Government Authority
5.14      The Gombe LGA will perform several functions within the project.
Most importantly, it will communicate with the residents of Bolari concerning
the implementation of the environmental sanitation program. A comirunity
development officer will be assigned to this task and serve as the liaison
between the Gombe LGA and the BSDB which will be supervising the construction
works. The Gombe LGA will also be responsible for maintenance in Bolari and
refuse collection in the town as a whole. These activities will be reinforced
by local technical assistance and short-term internationally recruited tech-
nical assistance to develop more effective systems for maintenance and refuse
collection.
G. Implementation
5.15      Implementation of the project is expected to start in 1979, with
the completion of final design and engineering, the creation of the project
unit in BSDB, and the establishment of the PDD within FMBN. Final design and
engineering was completed in September 1979, and some construction work could
start by the beginning of calendar year 1980. This activity would be completed
in parallel with the completion of land transfer and compensation procedures
by September 1979. The accelerated pace of project implementation was proposed
by the Bauchi State Government, which recommended that project activities be
well-underway prior to the anticipated change of government in October 1979,
thereby reducing the chances of major delays in the last quarter of 1979. It
is expected that the project will be implemented over a period of three and a
half years, including necessary lapses in construction during the rainy season.
Figure V-2 presents the proposed implementation schedule for the project.



- 45 -
H. Monitoring
5.16      The monitoring and evaluation of the project will occur at both
the Federal and state levels. The Housing, Lands, and Urban Development
Division of FMWH will monitor the performance of the project in terms of its
applicability to other states. It is expected that reports on the project
will be reviewed by FMWH for incorporation of their findings into national
policy and programs for housing and urban development. At the same time,
the PDD within FMBN will evaluate the project, particularly in terms of
the rate of housing construction and cost recovery. These findings will
then be used in the design of projects in other states.
5.17      Both of the above activities will, however, depend on the monitoring
activities of the project unit within BSDB. This unit will prepare quarterly
progress reports on the major aspects of project implementation, including
the rate of construction of civil works, housing, social services, the
selection process, and cost recovery. Financial reporting on the project
will be carried out by the senior accountant in the unit.
I. Supervision
5.18      Bank supervision of the first urban development project in Nigeria
will require about 90 man-weeks over three and a half years of project execu-
tion. This high level of supervision is necessary in view of the supervision
required for the seven project feasibility studies during the first two years.
It is thus anticipated that some 30 man-weeks will be required for each of
the first two years, declining thereafter to 20 and 10 man-weeks, respectively
for the last year and a half.



- 46 -
NIGERIA - URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FIGURE V-2: IMPLMENTATION SCHEDULE
1979                    1980                    1981                     1982
PROJECT ELEMENT
1     2     3    4      1     2    3j4           1    24 4 1             1    2     3      4
FEDERAL LEVEL                                  -
FMBNi                                                            -                                  -.- 
Project Development t-eft                        __                  _1.         W
Feasibility Studies                                -     -    -    -  I                 F T:                                      -
BAUCHI STATE
SITES AND SERVICES - Makams
Survey/Detailed Design
Preparation of Tender Documents
Bidding Evaluetion and Award
Construction _ i  21! 
Home Construction Loans                                                                                                       -    -      -
UPGRADING - INFILL - Makama
SurveI/Communitt Consultation
Detailed De sign
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding Evaluation and Award                                     _
Construction                                                                           M                              a_il
Home Improment Loans                                                                                                       
OFF-SITE INfRASTRUCTUREn-Mekara 
Survey/Detaiied Design
Preparation o Bidding Documents                                                                                
Bidding Evaluetion and Award   C_its
Construction l_   
BAUCHI~~ ~ ~ LI ASSISTANCEI                                                                                          , 
SOCIAL SERVICES -Makama                                                                1 17           71l      l| |  
Schools R       T                                                                I _
Clinics     D           + Ceo-_                                                                                -
Staff Training                                                                                                 i
fill Brrow Pits - Anti-Malariate
Ambulance + Vehiclesi  Startup Costs|
BAUCHI LGA ASSISTANCEi                                  ii                                         i                 j     II
Purchase Refuse Trucks                    *                             i                          1        
Communitv Development + Collection ||~fw
Staff
EMPLOYMENT -Industrial Estate                                                                                  !           I 
Survey/Detaiied Design                                                    j      j     j           j     I                       i     I
Preparation of Tender Documents
Bidding Evaluation and Award                                                           I
Construction
GOMBE TOWN
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION - Bolari
Survey/Community Consultation
Detailed Design
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding Evaluation and Award
Construction
GOMBE - Maternal Child Welfare Center                            -    -      -        _
GOMBE LGA ASSISTANCE
Purchase of Refuse Vehicles                                                 _                             ___
Community Development Staff
CONSULTANT AND ADVISORY SERVICES                                                                          _    _      ________
Project Manager -BSDB                            ~_                  t'       t     a     r      <       r
Building Construction - BSDB                                           -           -                      --
Civil Engineering -BSDB_     I
Planning -BSDB                                      _                                               
Accounting -BSB S                                       i                                                               -    -    -       -
Counterparts - Engineer BSDBI                                   - _
Planner (BSDBI                             -     _         _           I                             a        -
Socio-Economist iBSCBI|                       _              $)-
Solid Wastes Expert - LGA, Bauchi
and Gombe
Maintenance - LGA, Bauchi (Local)        i                       _           __                                                     _
Maintenance - LGA. Gombe iLocal)                  |                  - _
World Bank -20166



- 4/ -
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.01      The proposed project would represent the first low-cost urban
development project in Nigeria not requiring significant public subsidies.
While its immediate impact is limited in view of the scale of the country's
urban problems, its demonstration effects should create the foundation for
large-scale future projects throughout the Federation. The project would
demonstrate the benefits and replicability of a low-cost approach to housing
and infrastructure through the introduction of cost recovery in sites and
services and upgrading programs. The project provides affordable shelter
to low-income households, who are presently unable to afford housing pro-
duced by the public sectors at a small fraction of the cost of present
public programs. As part of its longer-term objectives, the project empha-
sizes the strengthening of the policy and institutional framework in the
urban sector and particularly support for the Federal Mortgage Bank of
Nigeria. It is expected that FMBN wi:Ll play an increasing financial role
in the sector, supporting the policy and programs of the Federal Ministry
of Works and Housing.
6.02      The Bauchi State pilot project will directly improve the living
conditions of some 5,850 households or about 59,100 people, about 42% of the
population of Bauchi town. These households will benefit from the sites and
services, upgrading, and infill programs in the Makama neighborhood of the
town. Together these programs will significantly increase access of the
population to needed urban services through the provision of essential infra-
structure, the supply of credit for plot development and house construction
or improvement, and social services. It is expected that these services,
together with security of land tenure, will stimulate investment in housing
and generate substantial benefits for individuals and the community. In
Gombe, the 15,000 residents of the Bolari neighborhood, or 15% of the town's
population, would benefit from the proposed environmental sanitation program
which is designed to reduce health hazards in the community.
A. Economic Evaluation
6.03      Economic rates of return were calculated for upgrading, infill,
and sites and services areas, by analyzing the present and expected market
values for housing and infrastructural improvement, by evaluating imputed
rental values. Property values provide a simplified, though measurable,
indicator of project benefits. Other effects, such as improved health and
education, are expected to have a substantially favorable impact on morbidity,
mortality, and labor productivity which would be only partly reflected in
property value in the area. The calculated rates of return indicate only
the basic economic benefits of the project. In addition, present assumptions
and calculations are made on the basis of one household per plot. It is
anticipated, however, that two households will eventually occupy each plot.
Current rates of return are thus under-estimated.



- 48 -
6.04      The following project costs were included in the analyses (all in
1978 prices):
(a) Land cost and plot development costs, including siteworks,
detailed design, construction supervision and physical
contingencies.
(b) An allocated share of off-site infrastructure, included
in the plot development costs which will be recovered
from the project beneficiaries.
(c) Building materials and labor costs for housing construc-
tion or improvement.
(d) Compensation for relocation costs for displaced residents.
(e) Allocated proportions of technical assistance to BSDB, to
each of the schemes.
(f) Annual maintenance costs, estimated at 4% of total develop-
ment and construction, excluding land and administration.
Community facilities to be built in project areas will serve the whole town,
and were not included in the analysis.
6.05      The evaluation of benefits is based on estimates of imputed rental
values for housing in the Makama neighborhood, as obtained by surveys con-
ducted during the project preparation study, and one carried out by the
appraisal mission. The following estimates were made:
Imputed Rental Values in Makama, Bauchi
(N/room/month; at 1978 prices)
Without         With
Project       Project
1.  Sites and Services and Infill Areas
a.  Shelter types As and A                                             15
b.  Shelter types B and C                                              18
2. Upgrading Area: Households taking up
Home Improvement Loans
a.  Existing rooms                                      10            15
b.  Additional rooms                                    -              15
c. Increased rental value due to
improved infrastructure                            10             12
3, Upgrading Area: Households not taking
up Home Improvement Loans
Increased rental value due to improved
infrastructure                                         10             12



- 45 -
6.06      The sites and services, infill and upgrading components combined
(accounting for about 51% of total project cost) would yield an aggregated
rate of return of 17% (Annex 3),  The individual rates of return are:
Sites and Services Scheme       :          14%
Upgrading Scheme                :          23%
Infill Scheme                              16%
The rates of return would be affected by a change in exchange rate pdlicy.
If, for example, there were to be a 25% devaluation, all foreign exchange
costs were to be adjusted by a shadow exchange rate of 0.8 times the official
rate (shadow exchange rate N1.00:US$1.23) (see para 3.01), In that case, the
aggregated rate of return of the three schemes combined would be 13%. The
individual rates of return would be:
Sites and Services Scheme      :           13%
Upgrading Scheme                .          20%
Infill Scheme                   :          14%
6.07      Sensitivity analyses indicate that an increase of 10% in benefits
or a decrease of 10% in costs, increases the rate of return by 2.1, 2.6, and
2.3 percentage points for sites and services, upgrading and infill, respec-
tively. Similarly, a 10% decrease in benefits or' increase in costs, decreases
the rate of return by approximately the same percentage points. The sensi-
tivity of the aggregate rate of return to an equivalent 10% change is 2.3
percentage points.
Employment
6.08      About 1,530 jobs are expected to be generated by the (fully re-
covered) sale of 51 plots for 30 persons each on a small-scale industry
site.
6.09      In addition; an average of 2,450 temporary construction jobs per
year for 3.5 years will be created through the execution of the pilot project,
thereby increasing the demand for local construction labor by 45%. This is
not expected to create an excessive burden on local labor resources, due to
the large number of construction firms in the state, estimated at over 2,000,
and to the considerable mobility of construction workers throughout the state.
B. Project Risks
6.10      The first urban development project in a complex country such as
Nigeria inevitably involves risks. The urban lending strategy reflected in
this project is designed to reduce those risks by starting with a small pilot
project to demonstrate the applicability of the low-cost approach to the pro-
vision of urban services, while simultaneously strengthening institutions
required for larger projects over the long-term. The project design seeks



- 50 -
to insulate the pilot effort from the risks of institution-building at the
federal level. Nevertheless, there are several risks at both the federal
and state levels.
6.11      At the federal level, there are risks associated with the proposed
strengthening the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria. FMBN is an institution
in transition: it has survived a busy period of rapid growth following
its creation in 1977 and is preparing for future expansion. Its management
has identified major institutional and financial problems which have arisen
during its first 18 months of operations (see paras. 1.12-1.19) and is
seeking to remedy them. The World Bank project preparation team has sup-
ported these efforts to find appropriate remedies and, for critical issues,
such as management control and capital structure, has recommended that prog-
ress on these problems be conditions of negotiations for this project (para.
7.01). Significant steps have already been taken by the FMG since the
appraisal mission. It is hoped that this progress will provide sufficient
momentum for FMBN to continue its strengthening many aspects of its operat-
ions. It is expected that, with improvements in areas such as management
control, capital structure, accounting procedures, and staff training, FMBN
will be able to effectively perform its assigned functions as the primary
housing finance institution in Nigeria. In order to assure that FMBN continue
its strengthening program it is recommended that supervision missions closely
monitor FMBN operations and discuss their findings with the Federal Military
Government and the Central Bank on a regular basis. These consultations
have already been agreed to by these institutions.
6.12      Despite these efforts, it is possible that the new Nigerian Board
of Directors of FMBN may wish to reorient FMBN policy in alternative direc-
tions. This uncertainty would have to be addressed promptly. In order
to reduce the effects of this uncertainty on the project, the designation of
the Chairman or a member of the Board as participants in the negotiations for
this project was made a condition of negotiations (see para. 7.01).
6.13      In view of possible difficulties at the Federal level, the Bauchi
pilot project has been insulated to the greatest extent possible. Its opera-
tions have been centralized within the Bauchi State Development Board which
should have few problems in the execution of the infrastructure components.
The social aspects of execution, such as household selection and community
participation, will be handled by the Bauchi LGA which is experienced in
community relations and is regarded as equitable and just by the local popula-
tion. The financial risks at the state level concern possible problems with
cost recovery from participating households, While cost recovery is new in
northern Nigeria, and may meet some resistance, both the state and local
authorities felt that cost recovery was necessary and could be made justifi-
able to the local population0 The Bauchi branch of FMBN will be established
to handle this operation, using accounts separate from conventional FMBN
operations.



- 51 -
6.14      Taken together, the proposed project does not appear to involve
excessive risks for either the executing agencies or the World Bank. Its
potential return is great in view of the longer term benefits to be generated
from the successful introduction of low-cost housing and infrastructure
solutions in Nigeria. This perspective is shared by the present governments
at both the Federal and state levels and should permit the project to expe-
rience a reasonably efficient start-up period during 1979 and then carry this
momentum into the construction period of 1980-82.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Prior to negotiations, the following actions were completed:
(a)  the Board of Directors of FMBN was nominated and
appointed (para. 1.13);
(b)  two members of the Board attended negotiations (para. 6.12);
(c)  the preparation of the second Progress Report by the
managing consultants of FMBN (para. 1.15) (fulfilled
February 15, 1979);
(d)  the preparation of a report by the managing consultants
proposing a work program and operational procedures for
FMBN and submission to the World Bank (para. 1.15)
(fulfilled, March 1979); and
(e)  the capitalization proposal for FMBN and a plan for its
implementation was approved by the Federal Military
Government (para. 1.17).
7.02      During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a)  detailed engineering and designs for all construction works
will be completed and in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the World Bank (paras. 2.08-2.15);
(b)  land transfer and tenure procedures will be carried out in
accordance with the Federal Land Use Decree of 1978 and in
a manner satisfactory to the World Bank (paras. 2.16 and 2.17);
(c)  household selection for sites and services and infill areas
will be made according to procedures and criteria satisfactory
to the World Bank (para. 2.18);
(d)  adequate budgetary and personnel resources will be made
available for social services facilities financed by the
project (paras. 2.20 - 2.24);



- 52 -
(e)  the recommendations of technical assistance concerning
refuse collection systems for Bauchi and Gombe will be
adopted by the respective Local Government Authorities
after discussion with the World Bank (paras. 2.26 and
2.35);
(f)  the proceeds of the loan will be on-lent from the Federal
Ministry of Finance to FMBN on terms satisfactory to the
World Bank (para. 3.05);
(g)  funds will be on-lent from FMBN to BSDB on terms satisfactory
to the World Bank (para. 3.05);
(h)  funds will be allocated in the annual state budgets for
1979-82 by Bauchi State Government to meet financial
obligations under this project (para. 3.06);
(i)  separate projects accounts will be maintained by the Bauchi
branch of FMBN, by the Project Development Department in
FMBN, and by BSDB and these accounts will be audited by
auditors acceptable to the World Bank (para. 3.18);
(j)  the terms and conditions of cost recovery will be organized
and implemented in a manner acceptable to the World Bank,
including:
(1) the savings scheme of FMBN (para. 4.05);
(2) the calculation and collection of monthly mortgage
payments for plot development charges (paras. 4.02-4.08);
(3) the calculation, disbursement, and collection of mortgage
payments for home construction and improvement loans
(paras. 4.06-4.07); and
(4) the calculation and collection of monthly charges for
upgrading (paras. 4.08-4.09);
(k)  the Project Development Department has been established
within FMBN (para. 5.04);
(1)  the Project Unit in BSDB'has been established (para. 5.08); and
(m)  FMWH would choose the 7 states for the feasibility studies
from a list of 8-10 states satisfactory to the World Bank
(para. 2.06).
7.03      The mission recommends that the transfer of project sites be a
condition of Board presentation (para. 2.16).



- 53 -
7.04      The mission recommends that the signing of the two Subsidiary Loan
Agreements acceptable to the Bank be a condition of effectiveness of the
Project.
7.05      Subject to the above assurances, the project is suitable for a
World Bank loan of US$17.8 million.



NIGERIA URbAN DEVELOAi4ENT PROJECT
Table I Det1llot Coat etaae
(e '000)
Peedr-lI Level
L-
1979                                              1980                                      1991                                    1992                             TOTAL
L-cI    F ...l8a      Tt.1                          local    7-reig      ThEe)                  Local    F-ig8       Tt.1                Locl   F-Ieg.  To..eI           LoreI  P ..lg.   Tore)
TeheMIe-l Aa-lt ... . 3488 Opec-alo.                            -         -                                         9 92.6      88.8       181.4                  86.4      82.9     169.3               18.5      17.7     36.2          197.5    189.4      386.9
S,prtr for PeeJca D-evelojeeer U8i1
.TaoTechiel AA.i.t-c                                            69.1      66.3         135.5                        98.8        94.7       193.5                  29.6      28.4      58.1                                                1 -  -  697.6    189.5  387.0.
.CoorlerpePE Profrealorol laaU                                 115.2       -           113.2                       164.6         -         164.6                 49.4         -       49.4                      -           -             329.3               329.3
-Op-etIeg Pepe...e                                              57.6      18.4          76.0                       156.4        50.91      206.4                 156.4      S0.9     206.4                -                 -             378.4    618.4      488.8
PeeJeca Feaibllity Std..                                       329,3     315.7         645.0                       576.2       552.6    1,1298d                  246,9     236 8     483.7                -                  -          1.152.4  1I15.I   2,257,5
S.bt.ltl                                            571.2    400.4          971.7                     1,088.6       786.1    1.874.7                  568.7     396.1     966.9               18.5      17.7      36.2       2.247.0  1,602.4   36849.5
PrIce Colteeaelee                                               32.5       14.3         46.8                       210.8        80,3       291.1                 199.2      74.7     272.9              9.,         4.7    14.5          451.3    174.3      625.3
t ..l                                               603.7    414.7        1.018.5                     1.299.4       866.4    2,165.8                  766.9     472.8   1,239.8               28.3      22.4      S0.7       2,698.3  1,776.4   4,474.8
9A.y                 t.ea.teaole  fn Teblee I th...6h 12 are doe to rounditg
Table 2: DETAILED COST 9ESTI7T712E
(w ii-ooo ) 
Meke - Sitoc  -,d Berv-i-c
197                                        1990                                       1901,                                       1990                                       TMFAL
Local       Local9                         Local       Local                           oal..ol    Locl                                        Loca :  L l     Loc-i                       Loc..I
MaterIale   Lobor  Forelgo   Total          -atariele   Lebor  Foreign   Total        Ft-eri.lo   Labor   Foreign   Total          oterile   Labor   Fore-ig    Tot-l        Mater.lee   Lbor   Forelg.   T,,tal
Ro..                                                                                 40          18:3      3r.0      96.8       55.7          26.6    50.9      133.2        5.1         2.4     4.6       12.1         101.2      48.3       92.6     242.1
Dirair. ge                                                                           11.4          ,2       7.0      36.6       15.7         25.0      9.6       5o.4        i.4         2.3     0.9       4.6           28.6      45.5       17.5      91.5
Water                                                                                1 _  _  7.2  27.5    91.1    3.33.8         9.9          37.9   136.2      184.0        0.9         3. 4    12.4      6.7           18.0      68.9      247.6     334.5
Secitatioc                       ..                    . -  -                         5.6        18.8      2.6       27.0        7.7          25.9     3.5       37.1        0.7         2.4     0.3       3.4           14.1      47.0        6.4      67.5
Foul Dr.lcag                                           _        _           _        21.7        29.6      8.5       59.9       29.9         40.7    11.7        82.4        2.7         3.7     1.1       7.5           54.3      74.1       21.3     149.7
Site W-rka                                                      _           _         -          23.0      -         23.0        -           31.7      -         31.7        _           2.9     -         2.9            -        57.6        -        57.6
R0f..0 Collection & taad-capiEg           _           _         _          -          0.9         1.1      0.2        2.2        1.3           1.5     0.3       3.1        0.1          0.1     0.0       .3                      2.7        0.5       5.6
cbItota1                              -           -         -          -        87.4       137.6    154.4      379.5      120.2         189.3   212.3      521.7       10.9        17.2    19.3      47.4          218.6     344.1      386.o     948.6
De-iga                                    6.6         10.3     11.6       28.5        -           -        -          -          -            -        -          -          -           -       -         -              6.6      10.3       11.6      28.5
Sperveio                                                                              3.5         5.5       6.2      15.2        4.8           7.6     8.5       20.9        0.4         0.7     0.8        1.9           8.7      13.7       15.4      37.9
Physical Coatiageaclei   - W.rke          -            -        -          -         13.1        20.6     23.2       56.9       18.0         28.4    31.8        78.3        1.6         2.6     2.9       7.1           32.8      51.6       57.9     142.3
Phyialcl Cortige-ci.t -
D.riga cd Sopervlslc                   0.7          1.0      1.2        2.8        0.4         0.6      0.6        1.5        0.5           0.8     0.8        2.1        0.0         0.1     0.1       0.2            1.5       2.4        2.7       6.6
Subtaclt                             7.2         li.4     12.7       31.3      104.4       164.3    184.3    453.1        143.5        226.0   253.5       623.0       13.1        20.5    23.0      56.6          268.2     422.2      473.6   1,1G4.o
Price Coctige-ci..                       o.6          o.6      0.5        1.7       31.9        31.8     18.8       82.1-      81.1         78.8    47.6       207.4       11.5        10.9     6.2 1      8.4         125.0     122.1       72.9     320.0
Total                                7.8         12.0     13.2        33.0     136.1       196.2    203.2      535.5      724.6         3O4.7   301.0       830.4      24.5        31.4   29.1       05.1          393.1     544.3      54. 5   1,484.0o
OQ i
(Dc
-                           .                                 ae~~~~~~



80,4,                          ..                 -            (1~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.5  MI3  2.  94.4  62.0.     29.6   56.       i4A8.4        42.3       I,.     5.       21.0         602.8      51.O   7,03.2    269.9
-  -    -                     0~~~ ~~~~~~~4.4  22.9  6.       0          12.6       35      I 3.tl    72.           12'.1     6.9      2*9     6.            41.                29..    lsI.4
-   -             -           ~~~~       ~~~~~~~9-1  37.  p.6.a   183.'I  15.       3 9.4  205.                     4. .3    5~8               52.5          293Zs..            2.5    'f21
802,11.2000          ..         -       -         -           ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~         ~~~~~.1  26.9  2.3    e4.3  3.0  26.  3.6   38.2          0.4       41,                .           14.9 85:  
5Ito uorkts                             -                                                                                                                                                        4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0. 
0.9         41.~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                 0.90  0
I1.0                                      9.         4.      07        ..           -5        .5.0     -H      -'                        I        -         -            -         ..       -        -99                    1.
ft:144 !1w-                                     - ttp6,s=.4                                        10.Ao.-69.    15.20                        32.2          1.        6.      2.9      e             0.1.9    1.         9
8.11.101,1               9.8       ~~~~~~~~13.1   22-1    ;J.3   1.276.     L9.M   201L0    f12,            096.6      543.9   WI5.1    161.7                                I .  94472.3       360.6    9e7.31-    94A   1,196.0
Tots'                    19.6      ~~~~~~~~~~~6.6   a5  1.       144        27.               yq7.7         605.6      1242.   515.3   1~6                         4 ~541.2   '74.6                                  3tl  P1.2W.11
T~bl. I,: 0121011.0D 122* %3TR1141
1979                 1~~~~~~~~~                                            _____                               .                                  908~~~~~~~1M  OTL
-  -    -         -           *Iq~~~~~~~~2.6  11.7  22.5    5d.9         33.8       66.6   31.0       00. 9         3.1       1.5      9.       .4           60.9      2943    94.       01.
010020 03.                                                                                    37.3    14.3    75.1            32:3       51.3   19.7    10 3.2           2:9       ".        .      945.7                   9.       35.5    181.
0   22.8    80.1~.   42o.q           8.         1.4   242.9    132.5           0.         .g9    ;0.3   03.9            65.0     V,%   90.1         Ii.
glectIcLoity                              -                  -         -4.                      .2     i.8      2.64   5                                                 1.6       &32   ...L    .1                LA       .44 &4 2
80btat.2             -          -       -         -           38~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.6  (3.1   ijfi..    2o.34  00.6  90. 5   28L11.0o    369.6       1        ?'      4.    33.6            446.5    450.7   fl-         OP1.6
0.0191                        ~~~~       ~~~~ ~~4.4  5.5   10.3  20. I                            -                  -         -        -        ..-                                      -             4.4       I.Q193            20.2
2o~~.rv1.000  -   -       -         -            0.3        2.9       5.5    13.1            3.2       4.0    7.~~~~~~~    24.8       0.3       0.4      0.1     1.3            5.9       1.3     33.7 026.a826.
I.0M    cm2o010- o,                              -          -                     8.8       11.0    20.5    a*.              11        2.    18.2        59..    4                                  a .  .  .   &.O004.                     jG.
I8t.tcn1 omt1a.5"0108 -
to.01a 024 80p"Id0oa           .        4 2.              1.0       2.0           02,        0-j     115       1.1            -I        0.4     0.0      -j0.0                   0.0      0.1    0.1             1.0       24       3       ,4 
0obt~~~~~t*1 ~~~4.8                   6.0   12.3       22.1          70.0       9t. 3    263.3  J3'q.3          06.2      460.9  22e4.3    "4..      7              La2.~ V   .4    40.4           719.?    2il    04 4495       A,
Fri" w.Lp.ct                             0.4                0.2.      1.2                              lb369 *-.1    54.9     54.4       42.8   42.1      aj4              ~                 a1   18.9J.                   6a48      64.6    a1.
T.L.1                     ~~5.3       6.4   11.        23.4          91.3      104.1g   282.0   3715.4         050.6      162,,4    6..6    5,(9.0        ,6.4      66.1    25.8   58.5            21.       M45*4   .4644
GN



6874                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~198190                                                                          9892361
Lorel  leanl  10001     10009  -                       LOcal        lose]                             lanaI         1.061                             SinaI        8.osa6~~~~~~~~~~W-t  -.1  t  L-
(Str. M        SaOnir-  r.A loiltI           -                                                                                         94.7        643.8    301.6  1,440.3           486.7        443.6    361.8  1.4W..3           969.       1,287.3    603,7  23U,88.
lo.nc I -oto     - Type a
(Ire. ad 9-d-ra  aMd 10111f                               -         -  t-                                                             184.0        264.8    194.4    $18.7           184.0        204.6    1981.      38.0           8.           9.       392.8  8,278.3
c .. nrtSL-e. - Typo C
lO1Irae ne   n906e4  . lOUIS)                .                                            -            -         .        -            6.          204.8    190.0      565.2         I"0.         204.6    196A       389.2         367.8        609.      392.9  6,178.3
8ooa P__ lonrnt-Loo. (84r-4686              32.8         36.3      35S.O    104.3        16.           127.7    172.5   364 9          124.7        827a 7     22.9    340.9           _636          730       76.8    2M.            377.8       2d l9    35.   I9843
Sobrorol                     ~~~~ ~ ~~~~37.6  36.5   39.0    104.7         114.7        127.7    122.5   364.9           877.3      1,181.2    817.2  2,8777            926.2      0,128.4    764.?  2,88.3          2,653.6       2,478.8  1,739.4  6,264.8
loire Cootta1.nrioa  ~ ~~~~~2.                 2j        1 .2.   _. 2L         34-9         747       1        71.1         452.4        411.6    153,3  1,117.3           813.2        997.9    1     _16  LiI51...    960.         1,036.3      W.?,   2 61_4
Total                        ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~33.8  38.6  36.2    110.4        149.8        132.5    139.0   037.1         I.629.7      1 .592.6    878.9  i..093.1       134.41       6,724.3    966.3  4.1.33.9         3.450.)     3.,706.8  2,178.1  9,874.3
Table 6i 18.168.1 OUT 601166T60
1929                                         6986                                        186                                             662                                               L_______
lna8o                                                                                     23.2          611      21 2    3:5              7.          3.7      7.       630.9                                                                       14.8    26.9    14.4
0.          4.       6. 3     1.4                                                             I.            .       1.0 I     .
6eeer                                         .                     3.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:   11.   41.   388  .8       4.0  1. 7.3                       .                                               48          1.83.   I7.3
6leoOnlrlty              .           .         .       .            ~~~~        ~~~~      ~~~~~ ~~~~        ~    ~~4.9  J,4  19.3    21.1  1.6  9.4  6.4  6.3    - 5                                             6.6         ..Z       lr    ad.
Solleral             .            .         .       -           32~~ ~ ~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~       ~~.3  '26.3  84.2   643.6  03.8  6.6    28.1    43.1                                                 43.3         35.6   112.2   190.7
DtInall                                       1 .3         1.1      3.4      5.7                                                                                                                                                        1                   .3  1.1  3.4  $.7
S6pe6njolao          -           .         .        -            6.3           1.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   3.  5.7  . 0.4   0.4       .1      18 9                                                             .            .        .        .
l47nlra  Coaalnrrel.n    40r4~       -         .       .            4.9           3'.9     62.6    21.            1.6           1.3     4.:.3                                                                     .513                6.        01
8476110 C..tt160e..cI..-
8Oalo ao -t     0.alo                        L            Li       0-       2-             gj                    0.3      0.6           0.0           8.0     9J.      6.2                                                             0-                   0 -      .1a
2ob-lr.                                   6.4         1.2       3.7      8.3      . 38.6           11.4    106.5   170.7            12.9, *       0.9    33.3    36.9              .                               .3.2                         49.1   i7.7   234.0
iSiro Coaorngo6rina               ~~~~       ~~L. LI              L            L A i-  ia  _. L_j 0.          209            73           .7L.     6.       7.                          .-.2                                             9.8    16-7    4_93
T0..1L6.6                                             1.2       3.8      6.6          50.6         37.4    It6.8   158.9            76.7          14.1    40.0    14.2                                                             7 . . .22.6  52.9   634.4   279.7
lb4



NIC.ERIA-URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 7:   DETAILED COST FSTIMATES
(N '000)
Soci-l Strvice-
1979                                        1980                                        1981                                           1982                                         TOTAL
Local       Local                           Local          i0Lo                         Lol L        Local                             Local        Loc i                            Local        L.OAL
.t-erlal      Labor   For-ig.  To-1E       H terl-ls    Labor   For-ig.  Total          Matrl.l.    Labor  FYreign   T.t,l            Materlo       Labor   Foraig.  Total          Hotirll   Labor   Itor-igr   Tota1
Prlt.ry School,                               -            .                 -           60.0        114.5    109.8   284.2           100.0      206.0    197.6       511.6         72.0        137.4    131.7   341.1           239.9         457.9   439.1   1,136.9
Clliotr                                      3.7          7.0      6.7    17.4           14.7         28.1      26.9    69.6           14.7       28.1      2b.9       69.8          3.7          7.0       6.7    17.4            36.8          70.2    67.4      174.4
Aabl toot tad Ochiolo,                        -            -         -       -             -           2.6      22.7    25.4            -                               -                         -                  -              -             2.6    22.7       20.4
Start-p Cota - D-rg                           -            -        - -      -                         -        31.6    31.6                  -         -          -           -            -          -        -                   -             -      31.6       31.6
MHdlo-l Staff Tr-linBo                                   28.6      3.1    31.7             -          33.4       3.6    36.9            -         33.4       3.6       36.9          -            -         -        -                           95.3    10.2      105.5
Barrota PIt Fi11 - Malaria Praveation        -                                           41.4         19.8      37.9    99.0           82.8       39.5      75.8      198.1         13.8         6.6       12.6    33.0           138.0          65.9   126.3      330.2
Snbtatal                               3.7         35.6       9.8    49.1         116.1         198.3    232.5   546.9          205.5       307.0    303.9      816.4          89.4        131.0    151.1   391.5           414.7         691.9   697.2   1,803.8
D-aia                                      12.4         17.8     19.0    49.2             -                     .        -             - _                  - _                     -            -         -        -             12.4          17.9    19.0       49.2
Sopatvlaaan                                  0.1          0.3      0.3      0.7           4.6          6.5       7.0    18.1            8.2       10.9      12.0       31.2          3.6          6.0       6.0    15.7            16.6          23.8    29.3       65 7
Phyaicol COOtlirencltr  - ..okt              0.6          1.1      1.0      2.6          17.4         24.3      26.2    60.0           30.8       41.0      45.0      116.9         13.4         22.6      22.7    58.7           62.2          89.1    94.9       246.2
PRyalcal Carontaneniot -
Doalg. tad Supervilona                     1.3          0.8      1.9      3.0           0.5          0.7       0.7      1.8           0.0         1.1      1.2        3.1          0.4          0.6       0.6      1.6            2.9          4,2   4.4          11.5
Subtatrl                              18.1         56.6      32.0   106.6         138.6         229.6    266.3   634.0          245,3       360.1    362.1      967.6         106.8        180.3    138.4   467.5           508.8         826.7   840.9   2,176.4
Dolor Caotlagorrioa                        .J.1.6         I,2     1.1       59,          42.2         44.5      27.2   113.9          138.7      125.5      67.9      332.1         93.8         95.7      47.6   237,1           276.2         268.9   143.8      689.0
Talal                                 19.7         59.8      33.1   112.6          180.8        274.3    293.6   748.7          384.0       485.6    430.1   1,299.7          200.6        275.9    228.0   704.5           785.0       1,095.6   984.7   2,865.4           ,n
Tabla 8:   DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(8 -000)
.au.hi Local Go.er..aa.t Auth-rlty Aaolanc
-  1979                                       1980                                        1981.                                          1982                                         TOTAL
Lacal L. aal                               Loc-l         local                          Loana        local                             local        LanaI                            Lo-al        loot-
a-t-rila    Labor   Por-iga   Tatal         Matrlal.    Labor   For.lgo  Total         H tirla.    Labor   For-igo  Total             Mtalrial,    Labor   Forei1n  Total           H t-rlala    Lab-c  Yor-lgr  Total
Stda La,dar k faao Trorka (3)                 -            -      47.4    47.4            _-                                                                                                                                                            47.4      47.4
Sp.rta aad Eqo.p-aot                         0.6           -       4.7      5.3           -            -         -        -            -           -         -        -              _            _                    _           0.6           -       4.7       5.3
Start-op Co.tt  (Raf.a. Saroica)             1.2          1.1       -       2.2          5.8          5.5               1 01.2        4.6         4.4        -      9.0                           -                  -            11.5         11.0       -       22.5
Co n.aaty Docalap.tnt tad
Coli-atflion Staff                                      i 9.2             9.2           -          13.0 8            13.8            -         13.8               13.8                         9.2               9.2                        46.1                46.1
altaaoStaff                            -           1.8        -       1.0                       2.08              2.9                       2.8        -      2.8              -1.8                  -       1.8             -           8.2        -       9.2
Solid blaataa Study -
Tachotral Anaisttnca                       _            -        6.8     6,6                                                                                                                                                                   ..8
Sobtotal                               1.7         12.2      58.9    72.8           5.8         22.1        -     27.8          4.6         21.0        -     25.6              -         11.1        _      11.1           12.1         66.3      58.9    137.3
Flr.t  C-aring..cla.                         0.2          0.7      2.1      2.9          1.8          4.3        _      6.0           2.6          7.3       -       9.9             _           5.9       _        S.9            4.5        18.2       2.1      2,               I 
Total                                   1.9        12.9      61.0    75.8           7.5         26.4        -     33.9          7.2         28.3        -     35.5              -          16.9       -      16.9           16.6         84.4      61.0    162.1 OI            Z
0%



NIGERLA URBAN DEVEWPAINT F1OJERT
T.ble 9: DEgfAIUL, CoSr STDIOATRS
Bf..chl Stat. Da-oALoj.oE ,0I   t-t..co
19e0                                   lWl19d20                                                                        9fTAL
Loci6L    Locl71                        Loeal      Local                       Lk,col      loenl                         Leorl     local                         locr'L     Loe l
Mta-riala  Lebor  Foraip   Total        lo-tarll           F0oct2g   rotl       Moteriol.  Labor  Fori,  Tot.1          lflhtarlal.   Lbor  Fbr-16   Total      Mlto U la   L labor  Yore4g  Totl
T-ct.o'l Aa.lt.Mo                     -        64.6   62.o    126.6           -         64.6    62.0   12-6.6          -        53.8    51.6   305.5           -         32.3    31.0    63.3          -        213.4   206.6      kn2.9
Prc.n-t U.its Oparat-g Co-t-          18.0      17.2   33.0      68.2         12.9       12.3    23.6    48.7         12.9       12.3    23.6    48.7           7.7       7 4    134.1    29.2         51.5       49.1    94.2      194.8
D-otcatmtt  bdot                      0.7        0.8    0.7        2.2         2.8        3.1     2.9      8.8          -         -        -       -            -         -        -        -
Coortaspart staff                     -         69.1                -            _69.1   96.3    _        96.8         -         96.8      -      96,8                   13.8      _-      13.8         -        236.6              276-6
aSbtot.l                          18.7      151.7   95-7    266.1         15.6      176.8    88.5   280.9          12.9     162.9    75.2   251.0           7.7       5335    45.1   1C6.3         54.9      5k4.9   yA.4       904.3
Pri. CotLge.ci.a                       16        8.6   3.4       13.7          4.8       34. 2    .0      48.o         7.3       56.8    14.1    78.2           6.8      28.4    - 9    47.1           20.4      I1D.0    38.4      I%-
Total                             20.3      160.4   99.1    279.8         20.4      211.0    97.5   328.9          20.1     219.7    89.3   329.1          14.5       81.9    57.0   153.4         75.3      673.0   342.9   1,091.2
Sable 10: DETAILED C(19 ESTIATES
(  '000)
4-n
G-sab. Torn T-  v1,-at.l S-Itatl-                                                                                                         OD
Local  LocT   Locc L  lW0                      Local       l,Wl                         ldlcol      1982                                     YOeAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LclToa  oN
katar-ia.   Lebor  Foai1t1 Total         TEarala1 Lobor  Nr.tgo   Total         Sat-rLls   L. bor  F-riOg.   Total       Ontorlala  Labor  Fo2a41   Tta          ratri,L.   Izo   F-ortto   Sotal
Ro1 -z                                 .            _       _      -_         13.8        6.6    L2.6    32.9           7.4       3.5      6.8    17.7          _          _       _        _          21.2       10.1    19.4      50.6
D-a-nL                                 -         -       -                    22.4       35.7    13.7    71.8          12.1      19.2       4       8.6         -          -       -        -3.5                  5b.9    21.1   U10.4
vat.,-                                                                         1.1        I.3     15.     2                       2.                 2                                                  1.7        6.      23.7     32~.Q
Rera. Coll.ction  ad LoadacapLg        _         .                                        1.8    14        2            o.8       2 1.0   -__                               - -             -                       _        _
Sobtotal                           _         _       _         _           38.8      48.3    42.0   129.1          20.9      26.0    22.6    69.5           -          -        _       _           59.7      74.3    64.6    1SS.6
D00012                                 1..       2.2    1.9        6.0         -          -        -                    _-        -        -       -            _          _       _                    1.8        2.2      1.9      6.o
SuPOxIla.                              -         -       -         -           1.6        1.9      1.7     5.2          0.8       1.0      0.9      2.8         -          -       _        _           2.4        3.0      2.6      7
Ifa1c-1 0ootiogoacLa,   W arok.        -         -       -         -           5.8        7.2     6.3    19.4           3.1       3.9      3.4    10.4          _          _                -           9.0       11.1      9.7     29.b
Ivrsical CWoatlogonle.e - Dcairsn
ni RupTrrvlaon                       0.2       0.2    0.2        o.6         0.2        0.2      0.2     0.5          0.1       0.1      0.1      0.3         _          _                _           0.4        0,5      0.5       1.4
Sobtotol                           2.0        2.5    2.1       6.6         46.3      57.7    50.2   154.1          24.9      31.1    27.0    83.0           _          _        _       _      ,   73.2       91,2    79.3    243.7
Prio CcatiMpaia.                      0.2       0.1    0.1        0.4        14.1       11.2      5 L    30.4         14.1      12.8      5.1    30            _                                      2'.4       22.1    10.3      60.8
Tot.l                              2.1        2.6    2.2       6.9         60.4      68.8    55.3   184.5          39.0      41.9    32.1   113.0           _          _        _                  101.6      113.3    89.6    302.5
int
OQ
0



MISEP.UA LIRaPI DENrELREMENT JC
PTable 11: DITAJLhD CCST E2BDIASME
Geabe - Lb-.l G.o,r.-, A.th-rity AsSistaenr
1979                                     19tO       -                 -           lWl                                      19W2                                     TOrAL
Mat-riale   Ibor  FP0ei&   Total         Locela      Labor  Fo1! '  PL t>1        M.rleal   Labor  Foregn  Total           Mllrile  lAbor  Fora4p   Total             ataleaa   Labor  Yel.i      total
Bid. lodr Rf9 Trook. (3)                  -         -      47.4    47.4            -          -      -                -          -             -           -        -         -                         -           -    -
BP.". enl 2a!    t                       o.6        -       4.9      6.8           -          -      -         -            -          -      -         -            -          -       -         -             6        -        6.8       .
St rt-up corS (r eua se rif)             1.2        1.1    _         2.2          5.8         5.5    -         12           4.G        4.4    -         9.0          _                           _15                    11.0      _       22.
Cammaty Denl u  t Stfrr                  -          3.7     -        3.7          -          5.5     -         5.5          -          5.5    -         5.5          -3.7               -3.7                  -18.1               -       18:1.
lleiDte boe Staff                                   1.8     -        I18                      2.8    -         2.8          -          2.8    -         2.8-                    1.8     -         1.8-                   9.2      -        9.2
d llet* Sdte ly _u  S eheical
Assstanc_  6.81                                                    6.8                                       -                                                                                                                  6.8      6.8
btotal                              1.7        6.6   58.9    67.3             5.8       13.8     .       19.5          4.6       22.7    -        17.3          -          5.5     -         5.5         12.1      38.6    38.9   11.7
Prloe Clgencis                           0.2        0..    2.1       2.6           1.8       2.7     _         4.4          2.6       24.1.    _        7.0         _           2      _          .4          1         10.1.     2.1    IT.0
TOt                                  1.9       7.0   61.o)    69.9            7.5       16.5     -       24.0          7.2       17.1     -       24.3                     8.5     -         8.5         16.6      1.9.0    61.0   126.7
'0
illA.2* DITAII.2D C(OS IBTDMW2
GObr - Materral lCh0L Welfare Cmtw
1Z70                          ~~~~           ~~                        ~~~~~~19t1D  i9                           111
Local      Loa                           Local       Local                        Lcel        L l                          loel         h Local                      lol
Nateraleo   Labor   or ..g    Sotal      Materials  Labor  Poc lp   Total         Materlols  labor  Porl.  Total           matri,  Labor   Fra           Total        aterial,  Labor  Fep    Toa
lbuldlng sId So.plat                      3.1       5.9    5.7       14.7         5.7        10.9   10.4      27.0         1.6         3.0    2.8       7.4         -           -       -         -          10.1       19.8   1819       49.1
Stat-up Cots - Dng.s                      _         _   -        -                -           -      6.3       6.3         _           _       _        _           _           _       _         _           -          -       6.3       6.3
edical taff TraLg                         -         7.4    0.8        8.2         -          13.6    1.5      15.1         -           3.7    0.4       14.1        _           -       _                     _         24.8    2.6       27.:1
A8.blac                               _ _ _                                 -                 -      8.4       8.1                                                              -       -8                                                 8.1.
a*tota                               3.1       13.4    6.5      22.9         5.7        24.5   26.6       56.8        1.6         6.7    3.2       U.5                         _ _ _  _                 lo.1.       14.6   36.3      91.2
Deas4n                                   0.3         0.6    o.6       1.5         -           -       -        -           -           -       -        -           _           _       _         _           0.3         0.6    0.6       1.3
supervision                              0 1        0.2    0.2        o.6         0.2         0.4    0.4       1.1         0.1         0.1    0.1        0.3        -           -       -         -           0.14       0.8l     .8       2.0
ftsiml Catl .cles - Works                0.5        0.9    0.9        2.2         0.9         1.6    1.6       4.0         0.2         0.1.    0.4      1.1         _           _       _         _           1.6         5.0    2.        7.14
lmical Cctloaedeo -
Deal. _6 sOrlor0             o          0.0       0.1    0.1        0.2         0.0         0.0    0.0       0.1         0.0         0.0    0.0        0.0        -          -  _          _                0.1        0.1    0.1       0.3
sobtotal                             4.0       15.2    3.2      27.14        6.8        26.6   28.6      62.0         1.9         7.3    3.8       12.9        _           _       _         _          12.7        .9.0   40,6    L2.1.
Mme Ootlseao.                            0.4        0.9    0.3        1.5         2.1        5        2.9     10.1         1.0       2.5    0.7        4.3          -           -                 -           3.  5    3.9    5.9  L      i
Sotal                                4.4       16.0    8.5      28.9         8.9        31.8   31.6      72.2         2.9         9.8    14.5      17.2        _           _       _         _          16.2        57.6   14.6    It8.3
I>



-60 -                         ANNEX 2
NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
The following table indicates the components of the costs (in 1978 prices) of
technical assistance at the Federal and state levels in the project. The
higher costs for the Federal level reflect 1) higher housing costs, and 2)
the use of state.procedures and salary levels for expatriate assistance.
Costs in Naira and US$
Man-   Annual
Component Mbnths Salary   Housing   Benefits   Annual Total   Monthly Total
FMBN-PDU
Assistance (48)  30,000    40,000    20,000           90,000            7,500
(46,200)  (61,000)  (30,800)       (138,600)        (11,550)
BSDB      (157)  15,000       7,500     7,500         30,000           (2,500)
(23,100)  (11,550)  (11,550)        (46,200)         (3,850)
LGAs: Expatriate
Bauchi       (2)                                       6,500            3,250
(10,010)         (5,005)
Gombe        (2)                                       6,500           3,250
(10,010)         (5,005)
LGAs:  Local
Bauchi      (12)                                       8,400              700
(12,936)         (1,078)
Gombe       (12)                                       8,400              700
(12,936)         (1,078)



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Cost and Benefit Streams
(N'000; 1978 Prices)
1979      1980       1981      1982       1983-       1998
1997
A. SITES AND SERVICES AREA
Costs
1.  Land                          -         86.4      118.8      10.8        -
2.  Infrastructure 1/           29.8       431.3      593.1      54.0        -
3.  Building Construction
Loans        -          -      1,260.0   1,260.0        -
4.  Administration 2/           49.1        51.7       46.2       19.7       -
5.  Maintenance 3/                -          1.2        18.4      92.6    145.1        145.1
Total                    78.9      570.6    2,036.5   1,437.1    145.1          145.1
Benefits
1.  Imputed rental value          -          -        -          408.3    816.5        816.5
2.  Land                          -          -        -          -           -         216.0
Total                      -          -        -          408.3    816.5      1,032.5
B. INFILL AREA
Costs
1.  Land                          -         51.1        80.3      14.6       -           -
2.  Infrastructure              20.7       261.9      411.8       75.0       -           -
3.  Building Construction
Loans        -          -      1,110.0   1,110.0       -            -
4.  Administration              49.1.       51.7'       46.2      19.7       -           _
5.  Maintenance                   -          0.3        11.3      72.2    119.6        119.6
1'otal                  69.8      365.5    1,659.6   1,291.5    119.6          119.6
Benefits
1.  Imputed rental value          -          -        -          359.6    719.3        719.3
2.  Land                          -          -        -          -           -         146.0
Total                     -         -         -          359.6    719.3        865.3
C. UPGRADING AREA
Costs
1.  Land                          -         98.0      154.0       28.0       -           -
2.  Infrastructure              23.7       300.2      471.7       85.9       -
3.  Shelter Improvement Loans  95.0        332.5      332.5      190.0       -
4.  Administration              73.6        77.6        69.3      29.5       -           -
5.  Maintenance                   -          4.7        30.1      48.9      60.0        60.0
Total                  192.3       813.0    1,057.6      382.3     60.0         60.0
Benefits
1.  Imputed rental value          -         28.5      248.0      535.8    627.0        627.0
2.  Land                          -          -        -          -           -         280.0
Total                     --        28.5      248.0      535.8    627.0        907.0
1/  Infrastructure costs include detailed engineering, construction supervision and
physical contingencies.
2/ Administrative costs are based on allocated shares of technical assistance to
BSDB to each of three schemes.
3/ Maintenance costs were estimated at 4% of total infrastructure and construction
costs.



-62 -                                              ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 1-FEDERAL MORTGAGE BANK OF NIGERIA
FORECAST BALANCE SHEETS AS AT MARCH 31
N '000
1979       1980        1981        1982         1983        1984        1985
ASSETS AND OUTLAY
Current Assets
Cash                                                         2,500     20,397      20,461      10,500        3,716       2,818       4,981
Deposits                                                       150         150         150         150         150         150         150
Staff Loans                                                    640         600         550         500         450         400         350
Total Current Assets                  3,290      21,147      21,161      11,150       4,316       3,368       5,481
Mortgage Assets
Principal Outstanding - Conventional Loans                110,600    151,200    189,900    209,600    227,200    242,500    255,400
- Low Income Housing                  -            121       1,400       6,934      10,985      10,513      10,013
- State Governments for Studies    -               677       1,975       2,586       2,586       2,586       2,501
Sub-total             110,600    151,998    193,275    219,120    240,771    255,599    267,914
Interest Receivables                                         3,600      4,100       4,700        5,300       6,100       7,000       8,000
Sub-total             114,200    156,098    197,975    224,420    246,871    262,599    275,914
Less  Reserve for Bad Debts                            (8,600)   (11,000)   (13,500)   (14,900)   (16,500)   (18,100)    (20,000)
105,600    145,098    184,475    209,520    230,321    244,499    255,914
Fixed Assets                                                   1,450       1,950       2,070       2,190       2,320       2,470       2,630
Less  Accumulated Depreciation                            (430)       (600)       (780)       (970)    (1,170)      1,380)      (1,600)
1,020      1,350       1,290        1,220       1,150       1,090       1,030
TOTAL ASSETS AND OUTLAY             109,910    167,595    206,926    221,890    235,837    248,957    262,425
LIABILITIES AND SURPLUSES
Current Liabilities
Payables - Administration                                      800       1,050       1,300       1,500       1,700       1,900       2,130
- Other                                              200         250         300         350         400         450         500
Total Current Liabilities             1,000       17300       1,600       1,850       2,100       2,350       2,630
Deposits
Savings Accounts                                           15,200      16,985      19,375       22,395      26,075      30,475      35,575
Guarantors                                                     700         700         700         700         700         700         700
Others                                                       3,700       3,700       3,700       3,700       3,700       3,700       3,700
Total Deposits                       19,600      21,385      23,775      26,795      30,475      34,875      39,975
Loans Outstanding
Federal Military Government                                   -        23,900      26,900       29,900     32,200       33,700      34,900
World Bank                                                    -          1,102       4,321       9,302      11,558      11,558      10,787
Total Loans Outstanding                -         25,002      31,221      39,202      43,758      45,258      45,687
Equity
Federal Military Government
- Contributed Capital                                     7,000       7,000       7,000        7,000       7,000       7,000       7,000
- Converted Loans                                        77,750      77,750      77,750      77,750      77,750      77,750       77,750
Central Bank of Nigeria                                       -        30.000      60.000       60,000     60,000       60.000      60.000
Total Equity                         84,750    114,750    144,750    144,750    144,750    144,750    144,750
Surpluses on Operations                                        4,560       5,158       5,580       9,293      14,754      21,724      29,383
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SURPLUSES  109,910    167,595    206,926    221,890    235,937    248,957    262,425



NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEDERAL MORTGAGE BANK OF NIGERIA
Table 2: FINANCIAL RATIOS AND OTHER INDICATORS
(in N million or Ratios)
Year Ended March 31
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983      1984     1985
Current Ratio                           3.3       2.4      2.2       1.7        .3        .4       .4
Savings Deposits                       19.6      21.4     23.8      26.8      30.5     34.9      40.0
Mortgage Assets (net)                 105.6    145.3    184.3    200.3    219.1    235.7    254.1                  1
Long-Term Debt                           -        1.3      6.1      13.7      20.2     25.2      30.5
Net Worth                              89.3    125.8    157.6    162.3    168.1    175.2    183.1
Retained Earnings                       4.6       5.8      7.6      12.3      18.1     25.2      33.1
Working Capital                         2.3       1.8      1.9       1.3      -1.4     -1.5      -1.6
Mortgage/Savings Deposits               5.4x      6.8x     7.7x      7.5x      7.2x     6.8x      6.4x
Mortgage/Net Worth                      1.2x      1.2x     1.2x      1.2x      1.3x     1.3x      1.4x
0



Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
- 64 -
NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 3-FEDERAL MDRTGAGE BANK OF NIGERIA
FORECAST STATEMZNTS OF CAPITAL OPERATIONS AND FUNDS FROM 1979/80 THROUGH 1984/85
N '000
YEAR ENDED MARCH 31
1980      1981       1982       1983       1984       1985     TOTAL
SOURCES OF CAPITAL
Loans Received
Federal Military Government                                          23,990      3,000     3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000    38,900
World Bank                                                            1,102      3,219      4,981     2,256       -          -        11,558
25,002     6,219      7,981      5,256      3,000      3,000    50,458
Equity Contribution - Central Bank                                     30,000    30,000                                                 60,000
Principal Repayments by Borrowers
Conventional Loans                                                    6,700      8,300    10,300    12,400    14,700    17,100    69,500
Low Income Housing (including SSDB)                                    -            29        184       398        472        500      1,583
State Governments for Feasibility Studies                              -          -         -          -          -            85         85
Sub-total                                 6,700      8,329    10,484    12,798    15,172    17,685    71,168
Down Payments by Low Income Housing Beneficiaries                        70        367        406         67      -          -           910
Sub-total - Principal Repaid              6,770      8,696    10,890    12,865    15,172    17,685    72,078
Staff Loans Repaid                                                         40         50         50         50         50        50        290
Savings Generation (Net)                                                1,000      1,500      2,000     2,500      3,000      3,500    13,500
Interest Received on Savings - Conventional                             785        890     1,020      1,180      1,400      1,600      6,875
- Low Income Housing                       3         15        17          3       -          -            38
Internal Cash Generation
Surplus on Operations                                                   598        422       3,713    5,461      6,970      7,659    34,723
Add Depreciation                                                        170        180         190       200       210        220      1,170
Bad Debts Reserve                                                2,400      2,500       1,400    1,600       1,600      1,900    11,400
Total Internal Generation            3,168      3,102       5,303    7,261       8,780      9,779    37,393
_     _   -_  -_                     --  3
TOTAL SOURCES                       66,768    50,472       27,261   29,115    31,402    35,614   240,632
APPLICATIONS OF CAPITAL
Advances    Borrowers - Conventional Loans                             47,300    47,000       30,000   30,000    30,000    30,000   214,300
- Sanchi State Development Board                   84      1,253       2,048        85       -         -         3,470
- Low Income Housing Loans                        110        437       4,093    4,434        -         -         9,074
- State Governments for Feability Studies         677      1,298         611      -          -         -         2,586
48,171    49,988      36,752   34,519    30,000    30,000   229,430
Loan Repayments - FMB                                                    -          -           -          700     1,500      1,800      4,000
- World Bank                                            -          -          -         -          -           771        771
Purchase of Fixed Assets                                                  500        120         120       130        150       160      1,180
Sub-total Applications                   48,671    50,108      36,872   35,349    31,650    32,731   235,381
Working Capital
Increase in Payables - Administration Expenses                         (250)      (250)       (200)    (200)      (200)      (230)   (1,330)
- Other                                         (50)       (50)        (50)    (50)          50)       (50)   (300)
Increase in Receivables - Mortgage Interest                             500        600         600      800        900      1,000      4,400
Net Increase                                                   200        300         350       550        650        720     2,770
TOTAL APPLICATIONS          4         8        5,40        37,222   35,899    -3 7ps      =,33   MnT,=
CASH SURPLUS (Deficit) - For Year                                      17,897         64      (9,961)  (6,784)       (898)    2,163      2,481
- Brought Forward from Previous Year           2,500    20,397       20,401   10,500       3,716     2,818      2,500
- Carried Forward to Following Year           20,397    20,461       10,500    3,716       2,818     4,981      4,981



NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 4-FEDERAL MORTGAGE BANK OF NIGERIA
FORECAST OPERATIONS STATEMENTS 1979/80 THROUGH 1984/85
N '000
YEAR ENDED MARCH 31
1980      1981       1982       1983       1984       1985      TOTAL
REVENUES
Interest Receivable
- Conventional loans                                                  8,500    10,700    12,800    14,200    15,400    16,400    78,000
- Low Income Housing                                                      4         50        256        554        658        630     2,152
- State Governments for Feasibility Studies                              20         79        146        173        173        173        764
8,524    10,829    13,202    14,927    16,231    17,203    80,916
Service Charges
- Conventional Loans                                                    400        500        550        600        650        700     3,400
- Low Income Housing                                                      1         11         75        181        232        232        732
- State Governments for Feasibility Studies                              95         95        133        133        133        133        722
496        606        758       914      1,015      1,065      4,854
Miscellaneous Income                                                       60         100       150        200        250        300      1,060
TOTAL REVENUES                9,080    11,535    14,810    17.841    20.496    22.868    96,630           1
EXPENDITURES                                                                                                                                          c3
Interest - on FMG Loans                                                   700      1,500      1,700      1,900      2,000      2,100      9,900
- on World Bank Loan                                              29        217       426        626        694        670      2,662
- Savings - Conventional                                         785        890     1,020      1,180      1,400      1,600      6,875
- Low Income Housing Deposits                           3         15         17          3        -          -           38
Project Development Unit                                                  343        661        411                                       1,415
Loan Administration Expenses - Low Income Housing                            2         20       103        151        122        129        527
Administration Expenses                                                 4,000      5,080      5,780      6,670      7,450      8,540    37,520
Other                                                                       50         50         50        50         50         50        300
TOTAL EXPENDITURES            5,912      8,433      9,507    10,580    11,716    13,089    59,237
OPERATING SURPLUS                                                         3,168      3,102      5,303      7,261      8,780      9,779    37,393
Deduct
Depreciation                                                             170       180        190        200        210        220      1,170
Reserve for Bad Debts                                                 2,400      2,500      1,400      1,600      1.600      1,900    11.400
2,570      2,680     1,590      1,800      1,810      2,120    12,570
Net Operating Surplus for Year                                               598        422     3,713      5,461      6,970      7,659    24,823
Balance at Beginning of Year                                              4,560      5,158      5,580      9,293    14,754    21,724        4,560
Net Operating Surplus at End of Year                                       5,158     5,580      9,293    14,754    21,724    29,383    29,383
P31
m m
0



NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6: BAUCHI STATE DEVELOPMENT BOARD
FLOW OF FUNDS
(N '000)
1979         1980          1981          1982          TOTAL
SOURCES OF FUNDS
1.  From FMBN - Bauchi                                        83.9       1,053.2       1,847.6          85.1       2,889.8
2.  From Bauchi State Government                           1,053.7       2,166.5       2.720.7       1,20n.2. 71321.0
Total                                                  1,137.6       3,219.7       4,568.3      1,285.1        10,210.8
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS L.
Disbursements for project components
-Sites and services                                       33.0         535.5         830.4          85.1        1,484.0
-Upgrading                                                50.9         717.7       1,265.9         257.9        2,292.4
-Off-site infrastructure                                  23.3         375.4         579.0          58.9        1,036.6
-Industrial estate                                         6.6         198.9          74.2          -             279.7    m
-Social services                                         112.5         748.7       1,299.7         704.5        2,865.4   a,
-LGA Assistance - Bauchi                                  75.8          33.9          35.5          16.9          162.1
-Technical Assistance                                    279.8         328.9         329.1         153.4        1,091.2
-Environmental Sanitation - Gombe                          6.9         184.5         113.0          -             304.4
-LGA Assistance - Gombe                                   69.9          24.0          24.3           8.5          126.7
-Health Center - Gombe                                    28.9          72.2          17.2          -             118.3
-Project preparation study                               450.0          -                           -             450.0
Total                                                  1,137.6       3,219.7       4,568.3       1,285.2       10,210.8
/1   Excludes N92,990 interest during construction which is capitalized and added to plot charges and repaid as
mortgage repayments by beneficiaries.
FD 
0
4>
0"



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
F!GURE 1
GOVERNMENTCONTROLS OVER FEDERAL MORTGAGE BANK OF NIGERIA
Federal Executive
I  [       CoL n
Federal Ministry                                 Federal Ministry of                   Chief                  Central Bank
of Finance                                    Works and Housing    |               Officer                   of Nigeria
I                            I                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~+
Board of  irectors
of Federal Mortgage
Bank
______\I_____/    Controls
/    Controls exercised    \                                 s '     .                                      exercised through
through equity                                     Federal Mortgage Bank                                    regulating interest
Ita   ailable           -  -  -  - _                    of Nigeria          4 -  -  -  -  -  -             rate structure and
BN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iavailability of
equity capital to
F o     BaMBN   -
World Bank -20163



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1.of 3
NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FIGURE 1,: BAUCHI - INCOME DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECT BENEFICIARIES
Househ old
Cumulative
Percentile
100                                                                   _ _ _
Bauchi Town
Makama
890   ~   - - - 1 -    -  -                                                                                     Neighborhood
3044~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
80
70
60 ---- -  -_                                                          _        _
30~
20
10
0                  50                100      131      150               200                250               300
.134
Monthly
Household Income
in P4
Urban Poverty Threshold - Makama   Median Income - Makama
World Bank -20165



NIGERIA UREAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: AFFORDABILITY, CHARGES AND PLOT OPTIONS
(1978 Prices)
Sites and Services Area                 Infill Area
Plot Types                         Plot Types
As        A         B          C           A         B         C
1. Number of Plots                                   525       735       420       420        1,110       370        370
2. Number of Beneficiaries                         4,200    5,880    3,360       3,360        8,880    2,960       2,960
3. Plot Development Cost-/
Including Land, Infrastructure and
0'
Interest during Construction (N)                 126       504      750      1,173          395       466        605
4. Shelter Construction Cost (N)                   1,100    1,100    1,350       1,350        1,100    1,350       1,350
5. Total Capital Cost (N)                          1,226    1,604    2,100       2,523        1,495    1,816       1,955
6. Monthly Principal and Interest Charges (N)-/  9.70    12.30    16.20          19.50        11.40    13.80       14.60
7. Monthly Mortgage Service Charges (N)             -         3.90      4.80      5.80         3.90      4.80       5.80
8. Total Monthly Mortgage Charges (N)               9.70    16.20    21.00       25.30        15.30    18.60       20.40
9. Monthly Household Income Range (N)              65-84   85-104  105-126   127-141         85-104  105-126   127-141
10. Monthly Household Income Range (Percentiles) 20-31    32-41    42-47          47-53        32-41    42-47       47-53          w|
11. Share of Income Allocated to Shelter (%)            15       20        20         20           20       20         20
0
3/
12. Affordable Monthly Mortgage Charges (N)-         9.75    17.00    21.00        25.40       17.00    21.00       25.40
1/ Assumes differential pricing for sites and services: For As types 25% of plot development costs to be paid;
remainder to be transferred to charges to types B and Cin ratio 1:3.
2/ Assumes 10 months prior payments of affordable monthly charges as downpayment; loans at 6% over 15 years.
3/ Affordability calculations based on lower end income range.



ANNEX 5
-70-                       Page 3 of 3
NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: AFFORDABILITY, LOAN OPTIONS AND CHARGES
(1978 Prices)
UPGRADING AREA/1
Households only
Households receiving        receiving infra-
home improvement loans    structure loans
1. Plot Development Cost, including
land, infrastructure and interest
during construction (N)                             567                     567
2.  Home Improvement Loans (N)                        1,000                      -
3.  Total Capital Required (N)                        1,567                     567
4.  Monthly Principal and Interest                                             4
Charges (N)                                       12.10                    4.85
5.  Monthly Mortgage Service Charges (N)               2.50                    1.40
6.  Total Monthly Mortgage Charges (N)                14.60                    6.25
7.  Affordable at Monthly Income (N)                  85.00/i                 41.00
8.  Id. (7) as percentile                                 32/)-                 i1
/1   Area includes 1,900 plots, housing 27,500 beneficiaries.
/2   Assuming 10% downpayment, to be paid in 10 installments,
prior to loan payments (savings scheme); loans at 6% over 15 years.
/3   Lower incomes can receive an optional N500 home improvement loan.



- 71 -
Annex 6
NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1:: SITES AND SERVICES PLOT OPTIONS
Plot Types                           A             A          B           C
Plot Sizes (m )                       200          200        270         375
Plot Dimensions (m)                   20 x 10      20 x 10    27 x 10    25 x 15
No. of Plots                          525          735        420         420
Plot Characteristics:  A : No frontage to service lane; access by footpath
~ only.
A B & Cr Frontage and access to service lane, district
or through road.
Note:  A  type plot would be sold at a lower price than plot type A, see Annex 5,
Table 1.
Table 2:   PLOT DEVELOPMENT IN UPGRADING AND INFILL
Upgrading                   Infill
Plot Type                                 Existing Plots         A      B      C
Plot Size (m )                            Maximum 500             200   270   375
No. of Plots                              1,900                 1,110   370   370



- 72 -
Annex 7
NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table II-3: SUMMARY OF LAND-USE
A.   Sites and Services
hectares          percent
New Residential (2,100 plots)              57.05              48
Existing Residential (130 compounds)       11.73              10
Pedestrian & Vehicular Circulation         25.67              21
Miscellaneous Non-residential               5.86               5
Open Space (incl. outfall reserve)         10.39               8
Schools                                     9.00               8
Clinics                                     0.30               -
120.00            100
B.   Upgrading & Infill
Existing Residential (1,900 compounds)    96.14               45
New Residential-Infill (1,850 plots)       55.12              26
Pedestrian Circulation                     30.83              14
Vehicular Circulation                       9.96               5
Miscellaneous Non-residential               2.00               1
Open Space (incl. outfall reserve)          9.50               5
Schools                                     9.00               4
Clinics                                     0.45
213.00            100



- 73 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Government Project Feasibility Study
1.  Inception Report, April 1978 by Dar-al Handasah Consultants
2. Interim Report, July 1978, by Dar-al Handasah, three volumes
A.  Volume I:   Findings
B.  Volume II:  Gombe Drainage Study
C.  Volume III: Surveys and Studies
3.  Pre-Final Working Papers, September 1978 by Dar-al-Handasah
4. Draft Final Report, November 1978 by Dar-al Handasah
5. Final Report, February 1979 by Dar-al Handasah
B. Bank Consultant Reports
1. Report on Employment Component by Meine Pieter van Dijk
(consultant), October 1978
2. Report on Health Component by Lawrence Casazza (consultant),
December 1978
3. Report on Housing, Planning, and Land Use by Leon Ploegaerts
(consultant), October 1978
4. Report on Housing Types and Evaluation of Master Plans by
Leon Ploegaerts (consultant), January 1979
5. Report on Infrastructure in Bauchi and Gombe by A.C. Godavitarne
(consultant), October 1978
6. Report on Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria by Alexander Grant and Co.
(consultants), October 1978
7. Report on Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria by Alexander Grant and Co.
(consultants), January 1979
C. Government Policy Statements
1. Land Use Decree of 1978



- 74 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
D. General Reports and Studies
1. The Financial System of Nigeria, 1976
2. Report of the Technical Committee on Revenue Allocation, 1977
3. Report of the Rent Panel, 1975
4. Report of the Anti-Inflation Task Force, 1977
5.  Urbanization in Nigeria by Professor Akin Mabogunje



NIGERIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Conditions in Makama (Bauchi)
Note: Traditional mud shelter with thatched roof or
corrugated iron roof sheeting on azara timber
wood.
Note: Part of large disused clay borrow pit; mosquito
breeding area.






- a
NIGERIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical conditions in Bolari (Gombe)
4~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Note: Uneven roads, drainage and sanitation problems.



i



IBRD 14154 
Nl'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D- c J b.~-____                                                             TrR~4oA
{GoI$ of G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,ooq~~~~~~~~~~G
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       .
ATLAN?7C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     AERO
lu  H                       5         10       50I ~
V~~~~~~~DN  b%



I



I Li K U 1412 
MARCH 1979
NIGERIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BAUCHI STATE PILOT PROJECT
MAKAMA: SITES AND SERVICES, AND UPGRADING AREAS
SITE LOCATION AND MAIN INFRASTRUCTURE
MAKAMA PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY (333 H.)
SITES AND SERVICES (120 H.)
RESIDENTIAL UPGRADING (140 H.)
-W   INFILL AREAS (73 Ho)
mL       R BAUCHI INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
PROPOSED WATER AND DRAINAGE:
WATER
TOWN MAINS
AREA MAINS
CONNECTIONS TO STANDPIPES AND MODULE LOOP MAINS
DRAINAGE:
-   MA N OUTFALL DRAINS
EXISTING:
-        ROADS
RAILWAY
L-YTh-J TOWN WALLS                                                            HL
C      BD RORROW PITS
D Ti; ~~~~EXISTNG/ 
Thn map hen bee, prepee hthMosquee
m.,6WondBodkteteffect,ctf for
th orwenrence oaflswy th redr                                     \ ny                 t      W        /     C o
The de-on hn-t,.. titd.an..d th e
do'not.i onp'. ftn the pe`t \y fe
World Bank and ito affil,-t. an-y
any terrntor Vor any  endcelentent
or acceptance ofschhondenen  
S OKOTC        (-KANO
N IGER)- ~            nn
lp \>    9I LATEAU              v          l      
Re                             u     GONGOLA/         B
.  ,   j >O f& BENUE  /\>          fCAMEROQPr4
>; $Zi' ANAMSRA5>t'   \0                                                        0    200   400   600   800   1000  1200 METERS
LACOS   6%       in> ~j'f   W F           T                                       oi  \   0      1000      2000      3doo      4dOO FEET
iA tO$  IMO,,ex r --vn31N s~ \B3ete
Gucf of Ocrnpp    7     fl o        spot  --fe geiS 
IVERS _ t






NIGE   /RER                 R        2N  IG ERI A
IT  rO                   A IN                                                                             URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FJ         RORNO cq   : 9  a  )                                  \BAUCHI STATE PILOT PROJECT
ReNIN S i R9v>NAAtCH  KD\                                                                                      MAKAMA: SITES AND SERVICES,
NOER GER                  e                                                          \                   AND UPGRADING AREAS
Br- 'PV h,\LALAA' p                    J                                                                        RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
REN, )S                                   R B CAERO. 
PROPOSED:
[1TTTEE1 RES1DENT AL PLOTS
*-     RES DENTIAL ACCESS
RECREATION / OPEN SPACE
D STRICT ROADS
SERVICE ROADS
EXISTING!
D STRICT ROADS
--  TOWN WALLS
METERS                                                                                                                                                     ;
-c.~
s/f/1ate.s 7nv/ljd>zsno on  sw /9~/ ~tP=Vof IV l [P~gl f Ihe Worldd denh  nd 1r  1   F  _  Y;                                    Ni






IBRD 14219
MARCH 1979
NIGERIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BAUCHI STATE PILOT PROJECT
MAKAMA: SITES AND SERVICES, AND UPGRADING AREAS
SOCIAL SERVICE FACILITIES AND ROADS
MAKAMA PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY
ROADS:
EXISTING TOWN ROADS
PROPOSED TOWN ROADS
-         PROPOSED DISTRIC' ROADS
PROPOSED SERVICE ROADS
SOCIAL SERVICE FACILITIES
EXISTING PRIMARY SCHOOLS
PROPOSED PRIMARY SCHOOLS
(;      PROPOSED CLINICS / DISPENSARIES
C7oo    FILLING OF BORROW PITS
EXISTING:
RAILWAYS
LJL    TOWN WALLS                                       /
C;2'>   BORROW PITS                           /
( \ X ~~~~~H LL  
\ / >< ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mosque
Th,s tap ha- beer prep-red by the
World Banks staff e-u1-:wY forI
the -ot-en,ence of the rad-r oJAH
Tht   d-ror -d-atrn  te d thre
bsusdar-eehewno m   --0, map
do no-rPtY, s-  the part of the
World Bank and ,to ah-ates any                                 _
judgment on tht Itogal status of                             ,
any tr,-tor y endor-e-ent
or acceptance of such boundaco-
SOKOTO           K>O           BRN
K~~~~~~NO ~~             ~          ~           N B       R Nfi                       0
NIERNINoun
:BEN1N  ~~~~~~YKADUNA 4,~~~~~~EAUCHBACH
Tp L OYO\7 .( g .           GONGOLA/
i5~OYO ~ j                     \O  B EN   CAMEROON
AOGUN   .2toO,\   BENUE;Rii F                                                               D>_ _    0    200   4q0   600    8OD  1000  1200 METERS
LAGOS  8;rowtH  tg, .P> $   Wfedwrol Capitol Tewittary                                     6         o10      2000      3d00      4000 FEET
hMOA   .~ ---IetrenMrSonol Bogsdtartes
Gulf tot Gjiteot    p    ' t     So   oSrte Brgtdonories
R-iVERS -_






NIGERIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BAUCHI STATE PILOT PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
PLOT TYPE A: 12 20mX20m
PLOTTYPE B: 11 2OmX30m
PLOT TYPE C: 11 2OmX40m
PLOT TYPED: 17 2OmX60m
51 PLOTS TOTAL
o      40      80      120     160
METERSI               I       I       I
FEETI                        I     I
0    100   200   300   400   500
Town Walls
Radslway                                                                                                 AUCHI MEAT PRODUCTS LIMITED
BAUCHI MEAT PRODUCTS
COMPANY LIMITED
to
RAUCHI INDUSTRIAL
ESTA TE



I



NIGERIA                                                                ,                                      NIGER   ,;                14157
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                SOKOTO
BAUCHI STATE PILOT PROJECT
GOMBE: BOLARI ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION                                                                                       KADUVA 
BOUNDARY OF PROJECT AREA                         DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS:                                      NIGER @                BAu-
BUILT-UP AREAS                                     HEAVY MAINTENANCE                           e                                    _J                          O
CIVIC IMPROVEMENTS:                              ACCESS                                                                       v
PEDESTRIAN AREAS                                 EXISTING TOWN ROADS                         '        KWA                 PLATEAU   /
REFUSE COLLECTION POINTS                         SERVICE ROADS                           0.#                                        - O'-/NG0LA /
WATER SUPPLY:                                    RIVERS
_ MAIN SERVING STANDPIPES                                                     T  -G                                                                o-O  ,... . *'  CANREDOON
00H 0    BOREHOLES                                                          WhB ohe9seI o                                      NMRN           
_________   EXISTING MAINS                                         00900 hh,hattotB
0                 500                 1000 1dE0   2h.)-0 20  3        f
METERS                    i..................shoho'hRVR                                                           ,-I                    olRud
FEET  I         T
R'   500  1000  1500  20100  20100 3000__________
O          505         ES
GOMBE - LOCATION OF BOLARI               ETERS _
FEET
o     1000   2000   3000
MARKET                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA
BUILTUP AREAS
EXISTING 90OADS
1       01  r     IRAILIVAY
I    \ 2     RiVERS
pLAC
"pit.1 R-od ~
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    - \_A}:i 
;  o                     ~~~~~~P A h T A M E
_MARCH 1979_






NIGERIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sketch: Typical Basic Shelter
2.5m.                 I
0.15m.                                                            6
3m.                                                                                        6m.
Approximate Scale: 1:500
World Bank -20301



