Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE COPY
Report No. P-2634-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN
BAUCHI STATE
October 25, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Naira (N)
US$1 = Naira 0.65
Nl = US$1.54
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton         =  0.98 long ton
1 long ton           =  1.017 metric ton
(= 2,240 lbs.)
1 hectare            =  2.47 acres
1 acre               =  0.405 hectare
1 kilometre (km)     =  0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
BSG      -       Bauchi State Government
BSDB     -       Bauchi State Development Board
CBN      -       Central Bank of Nigeria
FMG      -       Federal Military Government
FMF      -       Federal Ministry of Finance
FMWH     -       Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
FMBN     -       Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
LGA      -       Local Government Authority
PDD      -       Project Development Department (of FMBN)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:        Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
Amount:             US$17.8 million, equivalent
Terms:              Payable over 20 years including 5 years of grace at
an interest rate of 7.95 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:   The full $17.8 million would be relent by the Federal
Government to the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria which
would repay the loan over 20 years including 5 years of
grace at an interest rate of 6 percent per annum. The
Federal Government would carry the foreign exchange risk.
Prolect             The project seeks to demonstrate, for the first time in
Description:       Nigeria, the feasibility of providing affordable shelter,
infrastructure and related urban services to low income
households. Urban infrastructure would be furnished to
provide sites and services and to upgrade low inconme
residential areas in two towns of Bauchi State. Sites
would also be provided for small scale enterprises so
as to furnish employment. Low income families would be
given access to construction loans and supporting social
services would be provided in the project area. The
project would benefit 74,000 people with incomes below
the urban median for Bauchi State.
The project also seeks to strengthen the planning mnd
project implementation capabilities of key institutions
so that the experience gained from this pilot project
may be applied to other parts of the country. In this
context, technical assistance would be provided to the
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) and to state
and local authorities participating in the project.
In addition, the FMBN would finance from the loan,
studies for the preparation of urban development projects
in seven other states. Because of its innovative nature,
the major project risks are those associated with i:he
introduction of new project concepts to Nigeria. To
minimize such risks this first sites and services scheme
is confined to a small pilot project to simplify project
management. Implementation by a special project ullit at
the state level is expected to minimize the risk oiE
slippage in project implementation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign       Total
---------(US$ million)------
Urban infrastructure                        3.1         2.6         5.7
Construction loans                          7.0         2.7         9.7
Social services                             1.9         1.2         3.1
Technical assistance                        2.8         1.4         4.2
Project preparation and
feasibility studies                       2.1         2.1         4.2
Total Base Costs                           16.9        10.0        26.9
Physical contingencies                      0.7         0.5         1.2
Price contingencies                         6.8         1.7         8.5
Total Project Costs                        24.4        12.2        36.6
Financing Plan:                                 Local      Foreign      Total
--------…(US$ million)------
IBRD                                        5.6        12.2        17.8
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria            7.5         -           7.5
Bauchi State Government                    11.3         -          11.3
Total Project Costs                        24.4        12.2        36.6
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY                1980       1981     1982      1983
----------(US$ million)…--------
Annual                  3.0        4.9      6.3       3.6
Cumulative              3.0        7.9     14.2      17.8
Rate of Return:    17% (calculated only for sites and services and up-
grading components which amount to 51% of total cost).
Staff Appraisal
Report:           2412-UNI dated September 10, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN BAUCHI STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$17.8 mil-
lion to help finance a project for urban development in the towns of Bauchi
and Gombe in the Bauchi State of Nigeria. The loan would have a term of
20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at an annual rate of 7.95
percent. The proceeds of the loan would be relent to the Federal Mortgage
Bank of Nigeria for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interesat at
6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Nigeria (Report 2428-UNI), dated
June 19, 1979, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The follow-
ing paragraphs summarize and update the major findings and conclusions of
that report. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        Following 13 years of military rule, a civilian government assumed
office in Nigeria on October 1, 1979. The government is headed by Mr. Shehu
Shagari, leader of the National Party of Nigeria, which emerged from the
elections as the party with the greatest and widest support. The economic
policies of the new administration have yet to be formulated in detail.
Nevertheless, Mr. Shagari has indicated that his policies with respect to
domestic and foreign affairs will follow the same broad principles as those
espoused by the outgoing administration. Rural development, increased
food production, education and low-cost housing are expected to be focal
points of the new administration's program. A greater role of the private
sector in development is envisaged.
Economic Developments 1974-78
4.        Nigeria has an estimated population of about 80 million (19,78),
with a per capita income of around US$560. Per capita income alone, however,
is not a satisfactory indicator of the average living standard in Nigeria.
In terms of such criteria as child mortality, life expectancy, and number of
people per physician, Nigeria ranks amongst the poorest countries in the
world. Oil has been a major resource for Nigeria for over a decade, but it
acquired a dominating influence in the economy only after the sharp escala-
tion of the oil price in 1973/74. Within a year, the oil revenues tripled,



-2-
rising to over US$6.5 billion (roughly US$100 per capita) in 1974/75; a
corresponding increase occurred in the foreign exchange earnings. This
occurred at a time when Nigeria depended primarily on agriculture for
income and employment. It had only a small industrial base and the existing
infrastructure was deficient and in a very poor state.
5.        The nation's first concern at that time was to use the oil wealth
to improve greatly -- indeed revolutionize -- the state of the country's social
and physical infrastructure, and establish heavy industry. The Government
simultaneously set out to achieve satisfactory growth of agriculture and
light manufacturing to ensure broadly-based economic progress. All these
concerns were underscored in the Third National Development Plan (1975-80).
The Plan was prepared in the midst of the oil boom and reflected the optimism
and confidence of that time. It contemplated a total investment program of
about US$50 billion (representing a three-fold increase over the previous
plan period), with the public sector accounting for about US$35 billion
(subsequently raised close to US$45 billion due to cost increases). The
public sector program contained large allocations for transport (28 percent)
and industry (19 percent), and an ambitious goal of free and compulsory
universal primary education (UPE) by 1980 was set. The economy was expected
to grow at 9.5 percent a year, with agriculture growing at 5 percent and
manufacturing at 18 percent.
6.        The actual course of events, however, turned out to be quite
different. In the post-oil boom period, the Nigerian economy grew at an
average rate of 6 percent a year. There was little increase in the agricul-
tural output and the growth of manufacturing, at 12 percent a year, remained
below the Third Plan target.  Although construction, power, transport, and
public services expanded at around 20 percent a year, serious physical bottle-
necks emerged. Acute power shortages and congested ports and roads undermined
the productivity of the existing industrial plants, upset the normal distribu-
tion channels and caused consumer frustration. These factors contributed to
the rapid increase in production costs, which in turn made it generally
difficult for domestic production in both agriculture and manufacturing to
compete with foreign-produced goods. Because the fastest growing tertiary
sectors are concentrated in the urban areas, the economic growth had a strong
urban bias, which tended to accentuate the urban/rural income inequalities and
encouraged emigration of young labor from rural areas. Also, private invest-
ment, at least in the early years, remained sluggish for a variety of reasons,
such as the indigenization measures and the uncertain domestic and interna-
tional economic environment.
7.        The oil revenues, which were critical for the implementation of the
proposed public sector program, fell substantially short of expectations,
while the actual costs of the programs and projects turned out to be much
higher. Large deficits in the government budget and balance of payments
appeared quite early in the period, and the resource constraint came to
reassert itself much sooner than expected. Although the additional oil
resources were used largely to augment the nation's capital stock (the
federal budget current surplus amounted to 60 percent of the current reve-
nues), the capital expenditures rose so quickly -- seven-fold between 1973/74
and 1977/78 -- that the budget was in substantial deficit already in 1975/76.



As provided in the Third Plan, government investment concentrated on tran-
sport, heavy industry and education, which yielded some impressive results,
particularly in roads and ports. Not surprisingly, the much enlarged public
sector investments, together with the growing financial difficulties, consid-
erably strained the existing administrative capacity. Thus costs and design
of projects could not always be closely controlled, and the investmenits tended
to be capital intensive with a large import content.
Financial Difficulties and Government Stabilization Measures
8.        Nigeria's financial difficulties were furthe- aggravated in 1977
when the Nigerian oil faced, at the official price set in April 1977, keen
competition in European and US markets from other, cheaper sources.  Conse-
quer;tly, Nigerian sales, which began to decline in the latter half of 1977,
plummeted in the early months of 1978.  Federal budget deficits and the
drawdown of foreign exchange reserves had been increasing o'.%r time, but the
country's financial situation became critical in 1977/78. The fiscal year
closed with a Federal Government overall budget deficit of about US$3 bil-
lion, representing about 10 percent of GDP. Foreign exchange reserves
declined sharply and by the end of 1978 stood at US$2.2 billion, a level
equivalent to only seven weeks of imports. The rate of inflation averaged 15
percent during the two years, rendering domestic production of tradeables
progressively less competi-ive with foreign-produced goods.
c.        To overcome these problems, the Government, over the past two
years, took a number of steps designed to increase public resources, to
curtail public expenditure, and to curb imports. The Nigerian oil price in
April 1978 was brought in line with the prices of its competitors in order to
reverse the trend of declining oil exports. Non-oil revenues in 1978179 were
augmented through higher rates for income tax, excises, and import duties as
well as through better enforcement of tax laws and procedures, while cutting
Federal Government capital expenditures by 25 percent in nominal terms. In
order to strengthen the balance of payments position, import licensing and
other restrictions were introduced to reduce particularly the nonessential
consumer imports, and the Government raised two large syndicated loans
(amounting to US$1.75 billion) in the Euro-currency market. In additLon, the
Government during this period shifted the emphasis in its expenditures towards
agriculture and introduced policies and programs to stimulate agricultural
production.
10.       On the whole, the above measures succeeded in bringing about a
measure of domestic economic stability and stopping the drain on foreign
exchange reserves. The oil output, following the price reduction, revived
quickly and reached well over 2 mbd in the latter half of 1978 compared to an
average of 1.5 mbd at the start of the year. The overall budget deficit for
1978/79 is now estimated at only 60 percent of the previous year's level or
about 5 percent of GDP. The import restrictions also appear to have been very
effective in achieving their objective.



- 4 -
Recent Oil Market Developments and Short-Term Outlook
II.       Nigeria's financial position has improved in recent months following
s-cessive increases in the world oil price. As the latest in a series of
price increases, and in accordance with OPEC policy, Nigeria raised the price
of its crude oil to US$23.40 per barrel on July 1, 1979, up from US$14.10 in
December 1978. The high prices for Nigeria's crude oil exports coincided with
a record level of output of 2.4 mbd during the first half of 1979. Together,
these two factors will change the fiscal situation in 1979 and add considerably
to foreign exchange reserves. Export earnings are likely to exceed US$17
billion, representing an increase of 65 percent over the 1978 level, and
federal revenue for 1979/80, budgeted at N8.8 billion, is likely to exceed
Nll billion. The budget indicates that most of the additional revenue will
be used to expand capital expenditures, which may rise by as much as 20
percent in real terms, or to a level close to the peak of 1977/78. This
expansion is dictated primarily by the large amount of unfinished investments.
Economic Prospects and Policies
12.       Nigeria's economic prospects over the coming years will continue to
be subject to the vicissitudes of the international oil market. Although
Nigeria over the next year or two can be expected to have a relatively
comfortable financial position and should be able to accumulate sizeable
foreign exchange reserves, its longer term resource outlook is less sanguine.
Unless there are major new oil discoveries -- the chances for which are not
held to be very good -- Nigeria's future oil output will not rise much above
the current levels, and because of the rapidly rising domestic consumption,
the volume of oil exports is likely to decline over time. If the world oil
market remains tight and the oil price in real terms continues to rise, the
steady improvement in Nigeria's terms of trade can be expected to increase her
import capacity even though the volume of oil exports fails to rise. How-
ever, in view of the size of the economy, the level of economic development,
the pipeline of unfinished investments and numerous identified investment
projects, Nigeria's actual import needs are likely to far exceed the import
capacity. The external resource gap is likely to widen in the 1980s, and
may amount to 2 percent of GDP during 1980-85. Nigeria therefore faces
immense resource requirements in the longer term. Reduction of dependence on
oil by raising the level on non-oil exports and non-oil public revenues will
remain the basic challenge of economic development. But it is also important
that Nigeria is able to augment her own resources with sizeable external
borrowings.
13.       Assuming continuing efforts by the Government to raise non-oil
revenues, an active private sector, and an annual external borrowing level
of around US$1 billion, Nigeria can be expected to maintain gross domestic
investment at 25 percent of GDP in the 1980s. Provided investments are well
conceived and productive, this rate should permit the economy to grow at
about 5 percent a year, with fair potential for employment creation. The
ICOR is expected to remain high owing to the weight of the large capital-
intensive projects in the ongoing public sector investment program. The



actual performance of the economy, however, will depend on how successfully
imports are replaced by domestic production and non-oil exports stimulated.
One critical factor in realizing this will be the competitiveness of clomestic
production relative to foreign goods. This will require that Government pays
close attention to establishing a favorable cost and price structure, as well
as directing investment priorities and policy emphasis towards directly
productive projects.
14.       The Government is at present preparing the Fourth Nationai Develop-
ment Plan which is expected to come into effect in April 1980. Although the
guidelines for the next plan hav2 yet to be formulated, indications are that
the next five years will be used to consolidate the nation's economic base,
and to lay the foundations for balanced long-term economic development,
with particular empha.is on agriculture. It will, therefore, be important
that the Government continues to exercise restraint in undertaking new large
investments, ensuring that expenditure commitments do not exceed avai:Lable
public sector resources. In order to stimulate the growth of agriculture
and manufacturing as well as to reduce the strain on the administration, the
private sector over the coming years will have to play a growing role.
15.       The fact that a new government took office at a time when N:Lgeria's
financial prospects have greatly improved enhances the need for careful
resource management. There will no doubt be pressures on the Government to
reverse the policies of consolidation and prudent budget and balance of pay-
ments management instituted by the former government. It will be a major test
and challenge for the government to proceed prudently in the face'of these
pressures.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
16.       Until recently, Nigeria had only limited recourse to external
borrowing. The public guaranteed external debt outstanding (includin,g
undisbursed) amounted to US$1.3 billion at the end of 1977 and, mainly because
of the two syndicated Euro-currency loans, US$3.2 billion at the end of 1978.
The service on this debt would rise to an average of US$550 million a year in
the early 1980s, representing about 2 percent of the expected export earn-
ings. The World Bank's share in the external debt now is about 25 percent.
Given the relatively low level of external indebtedness, the Government's
generally cautious approach to external borrowing, and the favorable prospects
for oil, the debt service is likely to remain below 10 percent over the next
decade. Provided the Government is successful in implementing policies that
would enhance the productivity of investment and maintain balance between
resource availability and use, Nigeria can be considered creditworthy for
considerable Bank lending.



-6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
17.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of August 31, 1979 amounted to
US$1,043.7 million (net of cancellations). 1/ The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of August 31, 1979 was US$629.0 million, leaving an undis-
bursed balance of US$414.7 million. Transport, power, and water supply
together account for about 48 percent of total commitments; agriculture for
about 29 percent (most of which was committed in the last four fiscal years);
and education, industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining
23 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in FY78 were about
US$51 million, and US$60 million in FY79, but are expected to increase in
the coming years in line with the expansion of Bank lending to Nigeria. There
have been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.5 million; both are fully
disbursed. IFC has made three loans to borrowers totalling US$3.6 million,
and four equity investments totalling US$2.4 million. Of these amounts,
US$3.7 million have been repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments, as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular emphasis
on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives are in
consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third Plan,
which places considerable emphasis on agriculture and its policy to use the
proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of the
economy and thereby raise the standard of living of its population, including
the rural poor.
19.       In view of Nigeria's need for external finance and the interest it
has expressed in greater Bank involvement, a greatly expanded Bank lending
program is contemplated. In developing a broader approach to lending in
Nigeria, a central objective is to support the Government's own development
strategy by strengthening national institutions which are central to the
country's development effort. A second objective of Bank lending is to raise
the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the inci-
dence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been actively
pursued in recent agricultural projects which benefit some of the very lowest
income groups. Agricultural lending of this kind will continue to figure
prominently in the future lending program. The proposed urban development
project would also benefit low-income groups. A third objective of Bank
lending is to support Government's efforts to diversify the economy and reduce
the excessive dependence upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and
fiscal revenue. Consequently, we hope to develop some industrial projects
of an explicitly export-oriented nature, although our efforts are still at
a rather preliminary stage. Agricultural lending in particular will include
strengthening the potential for export crops such as cocoa.
1/   Excluding US$81.0 million for the Bida and Ilorin Agricultural Develop-
ment Projects and the Forestry Plantation Project, approved by the
Executive Directors on March 20 and 27, 1979.



-7 -
20.       The directly productive sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming
two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors
will also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure,
however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make
a positive contribution in, highway maintenance, water supply and in power.
Project identification work is under way in all of these sectors. Strategic
support for the commodity producing sectors will also be given by lending
for education. In this context, it is proposed that vocational, technical
and teacher training be given heavy emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support
Government's efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors.
The proposed urban development project contributes directly to this objective.
3uilding upon the experience gained from this pilot project, it is envisaged
that the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will be addressed with
increasing effectiveness through a number of urban developmcnt projects
focussed on the needs of the urban poor. A sectoral distribution of lending
along these lines would be in keeping with the need to generate employment
and would support also the Government's aim of mobilizing Nigeria's petroleum
revenues to ameliorate poverty and improve the overall distribution of income.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
21.       Nigeria has a long history of urbanization which dates back to the
seventeenth century. At that time many towns were established in the western
and northern states including such important trading centers as Ibadan, Ife,
and Kano. With the introduction of manufacturing industry in the twentieth
century, there was an increase in the pace of urbanization, the urban migrants
being absorbed with relative ease into a well established urban structure.
22.       Although national demographic data is unreliable, it is clear
that Nigeria has the largest urban population in Africa. Of a national
population estimated at about 80 million in 1978, some 24 million are thought
to live in towns of over 20,000 inhabitants. It is estimated that this urban
population may be growing at an annual rate of 7 percent compared with a rate
of 2.5 percent for the population as a whole. Such a rapid rate of growth
inevitably places great demands upon the existing urban infrastructure. Many
of the poorer residential districts have no provision for piped water, storm-
water drainage, sewage disposal or public transport. The shortage of housing
is acute at all income levels and overcrowding is commonplace.
23.       Nowhere are these problems more evident than in metropolitain Lagos
where the present population of almost 4 million is accommodated at an average
density of 450 persons per hectare. In parts of Lagos Island the density rises
to 2,800 per hectare. Less than half of this population is served with piped
water and over 80 percent are lodged in "rooming-houses" in neighborhoods
where the average density amounts to 600 per hectare. The living conditions
of these neighborhoods are characterized by low water consumption and poor
waste disposal together with air and water pollution that jointly amount to
a serious health hazard. Moreover, the productive efficiency of the Federal
Government bureaucracy as well as the private sector is impared by extended
journeys to work, poor communications and fuel shortages.



- 8 -
24.       These infrastructure deficiencies are felt most of all by the urban
poor. The urban poverty threshold in Nigeria is to be found at an annual
income level of US$300 per capita, or US$2,400 for a family of eight. At this
il :ome level a family can afford to pay no more than US$480 for shelter if it
is to provide reasonably for food, clothing and other basic needs. Hitherto
there has been no publicly sponsored housing program that can effectively
serve families at this income level. The Federal Mortage Bank of Nigeria and
housing finance agencies at the state level have previously confined their
activities, for the most part, to financing middle income housing with a unit
cost of US$40,000 or above. By way of contrast, families with incomes below
the relative urban poverty threshold would constitute 87 percent of benefici-
aries under the proposed project.
25.       In recent years the incidence of urban poverty has been kept within
manageable proportions because a large program of public expenditures, financed
by oil revenues, led to a rapid growth in urban employment opportunities. How-
ever, it cannot be expected that the public sector will continue to sustain
such a high growth of investment. Employment in urban areas is likely to
expand at a slower rate than hitherto and this could exacerbate the problems
associated with urban poverty.
26.       In these circumstances the Government is seeking to support more
actively those sectors which afford the prospect of employment generation.
By way of contrast to the many capital-intensive projects that were undertaken
at the beginning of the Third Plan period, the Government is now encouraging
more labor-intensive activities. Small-scale enterprises serving local
markets fit well into this strategy. The proposed project would incorporate
a significant, albeit modest, component aimed at the rational organization of
the small-scale enterprise within the Bauchi pilot area.
The Institutional Framework of Urban Development
27.       In order to tackle effectively the complex problems of urban
development, the Government has established during recent years a carefully
structured hierarchy of institutions at the federal, state and local levels.
Many of the key institutions are still at an early stage of evolution and
have yet to develop firm lines of communication that will permit the system to
operate in a well integrated manner. Nevertheless, there now exists a basic
institutional framework for urban development supported by legal instruments
of planning that together promise to constitute a viable structure for guided
urban development.
28.       At the federal level, overall responsibility for the formulation of
a national policy of urban development and for the management of urban growth
lies with the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH). As part of this
function the FMWH is charged with supervising both the Federal Housing Autho-
rity and the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN). This latter institution
is of relatively recent origin, created in July 1977 to assume the functions
of housing finance. A consulting firm was recruited internationally to manage
the FMBN during the first three years of its operations. It is anticipated
that when the management contract lapses, a Nigerian management team will take
over. In anticipation of this development a Nigerian managing director was
appointed to the FMBN earlier this year.



- 9 -
29.       In April 1978 the Federal Government announced that primary respon-
sibility for urban development and housing would be devolved from federal
to state authorities. As a result of this decision the state ministries
of works and housing and their affiliate institutions such as state housing
corporations and state development boards will assume a much more prominent
role with respect to the initiation and execution of urban projects. It
will not be easy for the states to handle effectively their newly acquired
responsibilities. The task will be particularly challenging for the seven
new states (including Bauchi State) which were created only in 1976 a d which
have still to consolidate a sound administrative structure. Many of these new
states will continue to be dependent upon consultant services for the prepara-
tion and supervision of projects for some time to come.
30.       At the loca' level the creation of Local Government Authorit:ies
(LGAs' throughout the country in 1976 reinstated a system of local government
similar to that which had prevailed from colonial times until it was abolished
by the Federal Miliuary Government in 1966. It is envisaged that the LGAs
will eventually play an important role in the administration of urban areas.
It will take time, however, before they acquire sufficient financial and
administrative resources to assume full responsibility for housing and
urban development projects.
31.       Of the many legal instruments introduced by the Government in
support of this three-tiered institutional structure, the Federal Land Use
Decree of 1978 merits special mention because of its far-reaching impLica-
tions for urban development planning. The decree invests in the State the
formal ownership of all land in Nigeria. At the time the decree was promul-
gated, the Government affirmed that it would respect traditional rights of
occupancy as well as the right to buy and sell the occupancy of land together
with the buildings and other improvements upon it. The decree would -not change
the day-to-day commercial practices associated with private land ownership.
Nevertheless, it will greatly facilitate Government regulation and control
of vacant land and will make it easier for the Government to invoke eminent
domain in special cases where occupied land must be acquired for public works
associated with urban development. In such cases, compensation would be
determined by the FMWH.
Development Prospects an. Constraints
32.       The massive investment program pursued by the Federal Government in
recent years has had a notable impact upon the urban scene. Large projects
have been undertaken in roads, water supply, power and telecommunications
such as to improve significantly the standard of these services in many major
cities. Notwithstanding these investments, however, many problem areas relating
to urban development are not directly addressed as yet by government-sponsored
programs. In particular, Government has not yet been able to structure an
effective vehicle for the provision of shelter and associated urban services
specifically to the urban poor. The proposed project would help the Government
to develop a viable project framework which may provide such a vehicle.



- 10 -
33.       At the present juncture the Government is reluctant to embark upon
major programs which could lead to large new claims upon budgetary resources.
In this context it is of primary importance that urban development projects
should incorporate adequate provision for cost recovery if they are to be
applicable on a wide scale throughout the country. Hitherto there has been
little or no tradition of cost recovery for urban infrastructure in Nigeria
and it would appear that the lack of such a tradition has impeded the intro-
duction of broadly based programs to benefit the urban poor. The proposed
project introduces to Nigeria for the first time such cost recovery concepts.
By so doing it prepares the way for other initiatives elsewhere in Nigeria
which may build upon the pilot experience in Bauchi State.
34.       Insomuch as the institutional framework for managing urban growth is
still in a formative stage, it is likely that programs and projects of urban
development will continue to encounter administrative and management problems
until the system becomes consolidated. The Government aims to develop the
system to its full potential as rapidly as possible and the proposed project
would contribute to this goal by strengthening key institutions at the Federal,
State and local level.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was first identified in October 1977 by a Bank
mission which visited Nigeria to assess the scope for Bank assistance to the
urban sector. After discussions with both State and Federal officials, agree-
ment was reached on a pilot project concept for Bauchi State and on a schedule
for project preparation. Subsequently, the Bauchi State Government engaged
consultants to prepare a feasibility study which was completed in November
1978. The following month the project was appraised by the Bank and the Staff
Appraisal Report (2412-UNI, dated September 10, 1979) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Loan negotiations took place in
June 1979. Supplementary data on the project is to be found in Annex III.
36.       A major objective of the proposed project is to demonstrate, on a
pilot basis, the feasibility of providing affordable shelter, infrastructure
and related urban services to low income households. The 74,000 beneficiaries
from two towns (Bauchi and Gombe) in Bauchi State have an average income
estimated at US$290 per capita. It would be the first time in Nigeria that
a publicly sponsored project is designed to satisfy the need for shelter
of families at this income level. Hitherto they have not had access to the
credit facilities of financial institutions.
37.       The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN), the institution that
would furnish construction finance under the proposed project, has previously
financed only medium and high cost housing. In 1978, however, the FMBN devel-
oped a low income housing policy in response to Government instructions that



- 11 -
it should make a greater effort in this direction with the longer term aim
of assuming a leading role in the finance of low-cost housing. The proposed
project would play a key role in that strategy by strengthening the planning
and project implementation capabilities of the FMBN so that it may effectively
apply to other parts of the country the experience gained from the Bauchi State
pilot project.
38.       The main focus of the Bauchi State pilot project would be located
in the Makama district of Bauchi town where the present population of about
27,000 is accommodated in 1,900 compound houses. The whole of this district
would be upgraded by providing new and improved vehicla and pedestrian access,
drainage, water supply, electricity and refuse disposal. In addition, some
4,000 sites and serviced plots would be developed to accommodate another
32,000 beneficiaries. Some of these serviced plots would be located on
vacant land within the present built-up area so as to make the maximum use
of existing infrastructure. In such cases the average cost of plot develop-
ment would amount to US$695. However, 2,100 of the plots would be located
on the periphery of the present built-up area where the development costs
would average about US$915. Beneficiaries would be able to choose the most
appropriate of three plot sizes according to their family income.
39.       Development of the Makama district would also include provision
for adequate education ane health facilities. Five primary schools would be
constructed, each accommodating 1,500 children at a cost of US$350,000), and
land would be reserved for a further two schools. Five health clinics would
also be constructed to provide maternity and child care as well as prLmary
medical attention to project area residents.
40.       Although there is no problem of unemployment in Bauchi at the present
time, there is a need to rationalize the location of employment within the
urban area and to provide the appropriate infrastructure that will permit
existing industry to expand. Catering to this need, the project would develop
a small-scale industry site in an area adjacent to the residential district.
Fifty-one plots would be established on this site, all of which would be
serviced with bituminous surfaced roads, drainage, water supply and eLec-
tricity. The plots would be designed to attract a broad range of smaLl-scale
industry including some informal sector enterprises. When fully operational,
the site would provide for about 1,500 jobs.
41.       To complement the development of physical infrastructure, loans
for the improvement and construction of shelter would be provided to project
beneficiaries by the Bauchi branch of the FMBN. It is estimated that about
half the present households of Makama would be eligible for home improvement
loans. It is anticipated that all households occupying new plots would be
provided with construction loans. These latter loans would vary from about
US$1,700 to US$2,100 depending on household income and plot size and would
suffice for the construction of a minimum two-room shelter of 18 square
meters. For the FMBN to finance such low cost shelter is a radical innova-
tion. A basic unit of US$1,700 contrasts sharply with the US$40,000 middle
income houses typically financed by the FMBN in the past.



- 12 -
42.       The financial regulations of the Central Bank of Nigeria currently
;-strict to 6 percent the annual interest rate charged by FMBN for construc-
Cion loans. Indeed, only in 1978 did the Central Bank permit the FMBN to
L2L,e its onlending rate from 3 percent to 6 percent. The proposed project
would contribute significantly to increasing effective mortgage rates still
further towards more realistic levels. Agreement was reached during negotia-
tions that the FMBN would levy a service charge for loan processing, disburse-
ment overheads and default provisions such as to raise the effective rate of
interest to no less than 10 percent (see Section 4.03 of Project Agreement).
This effective rate is much less than the 17 percent average rate of inflation
experienced by Nigeria during the past three years. It is also less than the
15 percent average rate of inflation projected for the coming three year
period. It is, however, in line with the general structure of interest rates
prevailing in Nigeria today. Moreover, it is in keeping with the financial
circumstances of the beneficiaries. Some 87 percent of serviced plots and
upgraded areas would be occupied by households with an income below the urban
poverty threshold of US$300 per capita. An analysis of household budgets
indicates that to increase the effective interest rate much above 10 percent
would be to raise mortgage payments to a level beyond the reach of these very
low-income families, even when due provision is made for cross-subsidization
between project beneficiaries.  Furthermore, the level of interest rates
should be assessed within the context of a project which, for the first time
[n Nigeria, introduces the principle of cost-recovery on urban infrastructure
into a publicly sponsored shelter project of this kind (see para. 55).
43.       The State Government has already given to the Bauchi State Develop-
ment Board powers to assume control of land for the development of the project
area and for the provision of community services. It is estimated that some
95 households (less than 5 percent of the present population) may be displaced
in this process. Compensation will average US$770 in such cases and house-
holds so displaced will be given priority in the allocation of serviced sites
provided under the project (see paragraph 3(b) of the Schedule to the Bauchi
State Agreement). It was agreed during negotiations that the criteria for
selecting occupants for the remaining serviced sites would give priority to
low income families (see paragraph 3(a) of the Schedule to the Bauchi State
Agreement).
44.       The project, as it applies to Gombe town, would be less comprehen-
sive in scope. The principal objective of this project component would be
to improve the poor environmental and sanitary conditions which prevail in the
district of Bolari. Some 15,000 inhabitants of this district would benefit
from a package of programs designed to improve road access, surface drainage,
refuse disposal and water supply. A material and child welfare center will
also be built in Gombe as part of the project.
45.       Finally, the project would provide for the finance of studies to
prepare urban development projects in seven other states. In response to the
declared priorities of the Government it has been agreed that the seven
feasibility studies will relate to newly established states and to Lagos. It
is anticipated that these projects may prove to be suitable for Bank financ-
ing.



- 13 -
Project Implementation
46.       At the Federal level the principal project implementing agency
would be the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) subject to the overall
supervision of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH). The Govern-
ment has recently approved a strategy of financial consolidation for t:he FMBN
that will strengthen the basis of its operations and prepare it for a more
active role in the financing of low income housing. As part of this strategy,
the capital base of the FMBN has been increased and it has been gi'    :cess
to a line of credit from the Central Bank. In addition, plans are in hand to
streamline administrative and financial procedures so as to improve the
collection of payments in arrears, to increase savings and to match better
the growth of the conventional mortgage portfolio with the availability of
loanable funds. The proposed project would assist the FMBN to strengthen
its overall administrative functions by providing four man-years of technical
assistance in the areas of accounting, mortgage banking, development banking
and information systems. Consultants would be recruited internationally for
this purpose at an estimated cost of US$11,500 per man month in 1978 prices
(consisting of US$3,850 fees and an allowance of US$7,650 for housing and
other benefits). It has been necessary to allocate a higher sum than usual
for housing and benefits because of the high costs associated with living in
Lagos. As a result of these various measures the financial position and
management of the FMBN will be consolidated so as to lay the foundation
for future expansion.
47.       A Project Development Department (PDD) has been established within
the FMBN and the start-up costs of the Department over a period of two years
are to be financed under the project. The PDD will supervise the financial
operations of the FMBN Bauchi branch office. It will also supervise the prep-
aration of seven project feasibility studies relating to other states. A
longer term objective will be to establish the PDD as a semi-autonomous window
of the FMBN with its own separate accounts, specifically geared to low-income
lending operations. To further this objective, consultants would be recruited
internationally to provide four man years of technical assistance to the PDD.
The cost of these consultant services is estimated to be the same as for other
technical assistance to the FMBN (see paragraph 46 above).
48.       Responsibility for project execution at the state level would rest
primarily with the Bauchi State Development Board (BSDB). Within the BSDB a
project unit has been established already with separate project accounts and
senior project unit management has been recruited. It is estimated that
consultant services for this purpose may amount to 157 man-months at a cost of
US$3,850 per man month in 1978 prices (consisting of US$1,925 fees and a
further US$1,925 for housing and other benefits).  The project unit will be
responsible for the contracting of civil works, construction and general
project coordination with other government agencies where appropriate.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the detailed engineering and
final design of civil works would be completed under the supervision of the
project unit no later than December 1979 (see Section 3.06 of Projeci: Agreement).
49.       The execution of all civil works would be the responsibilil:y of the
Bauchi State Development Board with finance from the State Government and from
Bank funds channelled through the FMBN. In this latter context, the equivalent
of US$4.45 million would be relent by the FMBN to the BSDB for 5 years without



- 14 -
grace at an effective interest rate of 10 percent. It would be a condition
of loan effectiveness that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement be executed between
the FMBN and the BSDB in a form acceptable to the Bank (see Section 6.01 of
Loan Agreement). Bank funds would be used to finance upgrading and the
development of serviced sites in Makama, the full cost of which would be
recovered from the ultimate beneficiaries. Upon occupancy of the upgraded or
newly serviced sites the beneficiaries would assume a corresponding part of
the BSDB debt and repay it directly to the FMBN over 15 years (without grace)
at an effective interest rate of 10 percent a year including service charges.
Thus the BSDB would be absolved of its debt obligations to the FMBN except
that, in the event of default by the final beneficiary, the BSDB, as guarantor
of the beneficiary's assumed debt, would be liable.
50.       Below the state level, the recently established Local Government
Authorities would have an important role to play in terms of community organi-
zation and in the mobilization of popular support for the development effort.
Furthermore, local services must be delivered effectively to the project area.
To strengthen local administrative capabilities, the Bauchi and Gombe LGAs
would be provided each with 12 man months of locally recruited technical
assistance and 2 man months of internationally recruited technical assistance,
the latter geared specifically to solid waste disposal.
Project Costs
51.       Total costs for the project period 1979-1983 (including duties and
taxes of US$1.0 million) are estimated at US$36.6 million of which the foreign
exchange component would amount to 33 percent or US$12.2 million. A breakdown
of cost by major category is given in the loan and project summary. An allow-
ance has been made for physical contingencies equivalent to 15 percent of base
costs for all items. Price contingencies for foreign costs allow for a 7 per-
cent annual rate of international inflation. Price contingencies for local
costs are estimated at 20 percent per annum except for hired labor, the cost
of which is expected to rise by 13 percent a year over the project period. On
the basis of these considerations, total contingencies are estimated at US$9.7
million -- some 36 percent of base costs.
Project Financing
52.       The proposed loan of US$17.8 million would include local cost
financing of US$5.6 million and would finance 50.0 percent of total project
cost net of tax. Local cost financing is proposed in the context of this
particular project because of the special financing problems associated with
this first public sector initiative in the field of low cost shelter. The
Federal Government, although strongly supporting the project, is reluctant to
extend direct financial support for fear that it may undermine the principle
of State responsibility for urban development. In keeping with recent policy
decisions, counterpart funding would come exclusively from the FMBN and from
the Bauchi State Government. The financial constraints facing these institu-
tions are such that they could not assemble more than 50 percent of total
project cost between them for an innovative project of this nature which lies
outside their conventional program of operations.



- 15 -
53.       The full amount of the Bank loan would be relent by the borrower to
the FMBN which would repay the loan over 20 years including 5 years of grace
at an interest rate of 6 percent per annum (see Section 3.01(b) of Loan
Agreement). The Federal Government would carry the foreign exchange risk,
however. It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement satisfactory to the Bank be executed between the Federal Government
and the FMBN (see Section 6.01 of Loan Agreement). It would be necessary
for Bank funds to be relent by the borrower at a subsidized rate of interest
in order to ensure the FMBN a reasonable and sufficient spread of 4 percent on
its onlending operations. A lower spread would be insufficient to cover the
high cost of administering numerous small loans to low-income households. Nor
could the FMBN raise significantly above 10 percent the effective interest
rate it applies to the ultimate beneficiary without provoking problems of
affordability.
54.       Of the remaining US$18.8 million project cost, the FMBN would finance
US$7.5 million and the Bauchi State Government would finance the other US$11.3
million. Their contribution to total project cost, therefore, would closely
approximate 20 percent and 30 percent respectively.
Cost Recovery
55.       There is little or no tradition of cost recovery in Nigeria for
iifrastructure services provided by the public sector. Nevertheless, the
proposed project would incorporate provisions for the recovery of all infra-
structure costs and land costs associated with the upgrading of residential
areas and with the development of serviced plots. Occupants would repay these
costs in monthly mortgage payments to the FMBN over 15 years at an effEective
annual interest rate of 10 percent. An element of cross-subsidizationl would
be introduced to the cost recovery system to permit very low-income families
(most of them below the urban poverty threshold) to benefit from the sites and
services component of the project. Nevertheless, assurances were givien during
negotiations that, the cross-subsidization would be structured in such a way
as to permit the FMBN to recover all costs on this component of the project
at an effective interest rate of 10 percent (see Section 4.03 of Project
Agreement).
56.       In general, the cost of off-site infrastructure relating to the
community as a whole, not being allocable to specific residential plots,
would not be recovered. The cost of these investments, including education
and health faclities, would be borne by the State Government. Nevertheless,
part of the cost of off-site infrastructure relating to water and electricity
would be recovered in the usual way through public utility tariffs.
Procurement
57.       Bank guidelines would be followed for all procurement under this
project. Items of equipment valued at more than US$100,000 would be subject
to international competitive bidding. Domestic manufacturers will bet given
a preference margin of 15% or of the applicable customs duty, whichever is
lower, in accordance with Bank guidelines. In practice, however, there would



- 16 -
be little scope in the proposed project to bulk items of procurement to this
size. Only the purchase of refuse collection vehicles and spare parts, esti-
caVes at US$160,000 would fall into this category.  Contracts of less than
US$100,000 but more than US$50,000 would be subject to local competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. However, many
contracts would amount to less than US$50,000 notwithstanding all reasonable
efforts to bulk them to the extent possible. Such contracts would be awarded
on a least cost basis after obtaining price quotations from at least three
suppliers.
58.       Any contract for civil works in excess of US$500,000 would be let on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. In practice, however, the nature of the works is such that contracts
for civil works and for buildings are likely to be small (less than US$500,000
individually) and phesed in such a way as not to be attractive to foreign
contractors. Individual contracts of less than US$500,000, estimated to
total US$12.2 million, would be let on the basis of local competitive bidding
according to procedures acceptable to the Bank. In special cases, where civil
works are linked to public utility systems such as water supply and electri-
city the respective public utility agencies may undertake the works themselves
by force account provided the individual contracts do not exceed US$500,000.
59.       Consultants and advisory services will be procured individually on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursement
60.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over the period 1979-83.
Disbursement would be made against 75 percent of civil works related to
upgrading and to serviced sites in Bauchi town. Total disbursements against
such items are estimated at US$3.8 million. Disbursement would be made for
the full cost of internationally recruited consultant services, estimated at
US$5.1 million. Similarly, the full start-up costs of the FMBN Project
Development Department, which are estimated at US$1.3 million over a two year
period, would also be an eligible disbursement item. These latter two items
include provision for US$300,000 retroactive financing to cover the expenses
of the PDD from the time of its establishment in May 1979 (see paragraph 3 of
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement). Disbursement would also be made against 45
percent of loans issued by the FMBN for home improvement and home construction
in the project area. An allocation of US$5.8 million has been made for this
purpose. An additional provision of US$1.8 million has been made on an
unallocated basis.
Economic Benefits
61.       The overall economic rate of return for the serviced sites and
upgrading components of the project is estimated at 17 percent. Sensitivity
tests indicate that a ten percent change in the overall balance of benefits
or costs would affect the rate of return by some 2.3 percentage points either
way. These tests indicate that the project would still be economically
viable if achievements are significantly less than anticipated.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 25, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
NIGERIA
NlD AREA (THOUSAND SQ. ILM.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            923.8                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     445.0                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOKE        INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION lc   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  120.0       200.0      420.0            223.6      432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSU4PTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       34.0        52.0      90.0             86.7       251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        51.6         66.2      79.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 18.0         23.0       26.0            13.6        24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                        56.0        72.0       86.0            18.4        42.7        50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0        152.0      178.0            53.6        95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.0 /f     44.8      45.1             44.4        44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.9 ]j     53.0      52.6             52.7        52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.1 '       2.2        2.3             2.8         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTE RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.5        2.5             2.6         2.7         2.5
URBAN                               5.0         5.0        5.0             5.8         8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.3        49.8       49.3            46.9        42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PIR THOUSAND)      26.9        24.5       22.7            20.6        12.4        10.8
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.3        3.3             3.1         3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         7.6      33.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED W1MEN)    ..           ..         ..             2.5        14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              97.0       100.0      87.6             94.2       104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    91.0 js     89.0      88.0             90.1        99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0 a      59.9       46.3            55.2        56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.7 -j     16.3       9.3             17.1        17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY BATE        ..           ..        ..               ..        7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    33.5         38.5       41.0            43.7        53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           207.0           ..     163.0           138.4        82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..            22.4        31.1        56.8
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..            66.3        68.5        79.0
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..            10.4        18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..            23.9        37.5        30.9
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..            70.3        69.5        45.4
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..            14.2        25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5690O.0/h   24660.0/i 25440.0          21757.5      9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NLRSING PERSON      7640.0L    5070.0j.   6230.0           3473.8      2762.5      1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2770.0ZJh.   2220.0    1900.0           645.4       786.5       493.9
URBAN                                *-       400.0         *-           172.9       278.4       229.6
RURAL                                ..     18450.0         ..          1292.6      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..             19.2       19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             4.9          ..         5.2
URBAN                                *-          *-        4.7              5.0         *-          5.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             4.7          ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..              ..          ..          2.0
URBAN                               3.0          ..        2.2              ..         2.3          1.5
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..               ..         ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        .2 ..                     28.3         64.1
URBAN                                ..           ..      42.4              ..          ..        67.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..              ..        10.3         34.1



- 21-                                         ANNEX I
TABLE. 3A                                   Page  2   of  5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SH Eg
REFERENCE CPOUFPS (ADJU1STFD Aky,FiCES
NIGERIA                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -r
SAME        SAME     NEXT HICGIER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME1
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP Ad    GROU1' /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RAT10a
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 36.0         34.0      49.0            59.0        82.7       102.5
MALE                 46.0        43.0       59.0            64.2       87.3        108.6
FEMALE               27.0        25.0       39.0            44.2       75.8         97.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  3.0          4.0      10.0             9.0       21.4         33.5
MALE                  4.0         6.0       14.0            12.0       33.0         38.4
FEMALF.               1.0         3.0        7.0             4.4       15.5         30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. tX OF SECONDARY)   5.0          8.5       3.8/i           7.0         9.8        Ir.S
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           30.0         34.0      34.0            42.2        34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                         19.0         21.0      25.0            22.9       23.4         22.9
ADUBLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)  -   15.0           ..        ..            20.8        54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7          1.0       2.1             4.0         9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.0         23.0      79.0            44.3       76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUJLATION                        0.2          1.4       1.8             2.9       13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  8.0          5.0       9.0             5.6        18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        0.5             0.4         2.5         3.
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18300.0/f  25600.0   27700.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  41.3        40.6       40.2            31.9       29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             70.8        62.1       56.0            77.6       62.7         43.'
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.4         13.8      18.0             7.9       11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.7         40.5      39.1            40.8        37.1        =3. 5
4I(LE                               50.9         48.8      47.4            53.9        48.8        48.0
FEMALE                              34.8         32.4      31.0            25.6        20.4        16.13
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4/f       1.2       1.4              1.2        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
rECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..           ..        ..              ..        15.2        20.3
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..        ..              ..       48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..         ..              ..        6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..         ..              ..        16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE PCVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      352.0           187.6      241.3        270.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     156.0            96.8       136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      286.0           138.4       179.7       282.5
RURAL                                ..         ..       95.0            71.0       103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..            34.5       24.8         20.5
RURAL                                ..         ..       27.0            48.7        37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excludirig the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betweent 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /c  Internmdiate Middle
Income (5551-1135 per capita. 1976);   /f  1963;   I  1961-63;   /h  Including ex-north Cameroo1n8s unLder
British administration;   /i  certain fields of study previously classified under other second level edu-
cation of a vocational of technical nature are now reported under general education;   LI  1965-66 average.
I Lk   1973                                                                                     May, 1979



-22 -                                                      ANNEX I
Page .3 of 5
Diii:  Aitboub  the date  -  d-ay  free  morn. pamerally jodged the Sent ae-twtatitv     ad nelkebie, It ebewid  .10  be med chast they my eec be kaer,ma
ttcals I,Coprnanble beca,.. St the lask of standardized defi&tti   m w eattcempts Seeed by dittaret eacutrlee  to cellectkeg  the dat..  The asts ar, smemetelee.,
aseetl to d"earth  ornds  of magaltode, isdtestc  trad, ed chereotertett.  ea  rteas mjer diftwera o becomem  ~matrlee.
The Ag,1uLJd gom.glma    ta onech todicator ane pepotactiaeerigbted gemstric semm, occluding the  xtrome "lse of te  eindctoer aed the meat peo.1elaed
.mto lack of daeu, gromp etarge of all imdiacsters for Capital Se7ipe Oil teeUt ad of iMiaear. If A.moc . caster sod searrt.
diepaols, octwing, lineme dist tblitto,md eannewry f orther couintry prongs ane pppeltioawighkted pronstric want withb: anclusion of the eatranma velee ad
the -   I peptaotd .trniy.  lItteWeoao                       ne        mtetdacv    amd                    vaLblt   fdt   a   oetai                       ete       a   eme ed
I, nlating "O                 OF!H ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ieatIt mai.ep    c
~hLANDARA (thowsaad eq. km)                                                                     a     ,n t           e           a    e         ata
-Total Sonf.sa area oePnitata  tead aIea aed Leland eaten.                           W      UNWr                       , echa,.Id NO
*  at roea M   etleato  of egricoItwara  ore"  mod tomer.riy                 posel as percentages Of their teepeOtt.  pepatatiama.  tearera d.op.eal
or  pvaetyfat  repe, pactoroc, markot oaf kitmhe  gardens ot to                            my tileds the cellettim  ad disposal, with or vithet trogneaet,of
Its feilt..                                                                                beems,csrate & ased  aterata  by weare-boreom  cyoma.o W  the a-  of pit
pinvim  aedSointlt taul.tatem.
01 n1,C1,1A 11 - til CPePr taitto  eatiteat    at carrat earhst pricew,               po iifn rk1                    Ppacl tica divided by outdor af practicieg pbyoi-
oalcuatd b  e     IMonvrin :athod ae World lMok Att,. (19575-7  heasis);                  o   qmLa              Smtoalsechol at asinnrity tenet.
1960. 1950. mod t97' data.                                                             P.atep.>eeama M;Pop.atLm  dilided by Swiss  of practtota
maleaedfma.epdeaa  m..,practical tearoom  eod maaatmtt  aneem.
fUICY  C01S)MPTION  -t APITA - Aaoa cIm-amytiot of Commerctiel MIrSy  (eal                 Pe,aieea   aeah4                   oa    re   ad   nea           apolatif  (totel,
adlttt,pto..-, c tore1 toe oaf bydro., eacter eand *ethemal                     oxbo, aed narl) divide  by thirl mepeoiv   ow"   00 boepittl bedl.
oiotltrt  t- tor          f  eloorletprcptl  Ot   00a AIet  to peblic ad prIvate  several Sod epectilited heapttl.n 
and 196deta                                                                               hebilitatim  ceateno.  lepittale a-c etabligaheets parmeematly stoffed by
POULtIOI MOtVI'IAI. %TTPIIa  I-St mat p"Selone.  gtaiehta-te  preatidtog Priaipally teatedite
1oe   o.lto   adra   elin.7*A   fJt d190.1t0..8tae  r  tot tectedd.  earel hSapitata.  bom r, Lotlde helttt ead madt-
1977 data.                                                         cal~~~~~~~~~~4  CM te   act Permanetly eteffgd hr a p"yitta  (hot by A mdtl .IM
Urban couaio    nrceot of  &totl  - Utetl  of urbac to total popletiOt;                     estatt, sane.. aidatf., Ott.) which ofder ta-petiaat s.MScmaatIe, aed
dlfforont daftntti_o  of coh  atrea may  fteot teeperebility If date                      prorid. a Itaited.reegs, of medical fattlitt-e
atone - Iocre %196t, 19501 ad t915 data..Aeataoerbeia   a   - Tocal atemer of eletato or dis.hetgam,
Potlattot           M;lotot                                                                tree beapttee Stt          ythe e~emb   of bade.
Pooc1latotIt tea  2000ZM   - Curren  popl.ttoc pnro... iss  an  h"oad S
1975 totel .  ..ptato   by at. Sod soat ad their  artulity  end fertility
aetmnt  it.  opo tot  at birLth tocramist with .-Sitry'. pat capite                 A aaoadcnot   fopo    ftditwl   h                            r  Itieg q-rttar
Inoo   nel d0 il1m    lifo  ..paotaory ctabhitoi   at 55.5 years.                 aad theIr maef  mnale.  A bearde  or 1d040?" my or y cot be tcloded Lo the
tho preatee  totfertility rato alo hav-  3 larela  ea..mt"  detime                  hmwsbcld for statiatical p,arpoaea.
In  o ltI'llf   -codi.g t0 income  trot ead pt fatly planaleg  pet-                    eeae trofaem erto                         tol.n            adta   *Ararog   -ebehe
tostt   Ec  ccary  S thet a-eioed ma. of thse  9 cahimatiema                        of pertema  p   t.,     tat all,  rb an d -t-rSl occeptd covat-l               llae
of  ottllt  an  tetotlt Eteda tOt praje.ttoe, potrpaeee.                         teopatinay. Dwiega  eaclede aa-pemmot atratota  and aseaccopied part..
Stati ...r, P.culatia, - 10 a Stoionaty Popolation. then  L. a. gro,,hb                  AComO t   lcrct   ereto    l1a       oa    wa   a oa
olo   thobirh  raeit  equal to tho d.atb raet, -d atao the  50                       Ifetel elit.d with  teletricity  L. lirtal Martonasa0  peretoateg  of
touttarminaco-ant.  Thi. I. aohi-od  -ly aftr fertility rte.O                       total  -rhac. and tota           L df Sie   teapetity.
delott  the toPlacset tIv-I of -it net Seprdsctioo rae", wle  each
oaan, ion Of otman -p1.too it.olf ooactl.. The Stationary pepalation
ai _eatiaated or the haet. of ths p,o3aet.d ohbaraeiatice of the                   wise adoralowatm   Teti"
,poplat,ion  o  he    .ra  Ib., and th. tat. of dcolit. of farottiTy ratn               PrImar  atbho  - tte.m ale ad imalo  - Gtoe. totet, mao eatd fi1. carol-
toroloeo  Inal                                                                        matof all oS.  tthe prtnafy lovel aI Porctge   of nePeoftir  ptIan-
leer(telonay Povltio  IS R000h08 - Th. tear ah. Stationry Pop.la-                    eoheal-eaw  popuItatloc Sanc ally Ltaadem nhitra  aed 6-ti year. hoc
P,fltiorac   a d hoeitcoh                                                                   dleted for diffannt temethe of ptimeer  edocotim;  sotoatreas  0th
Par Qu afio     Mi-.ra      ...ta,P.at-    klotc   10   tr.                                att-rea1 od,astto   enrotllasd mtSy  amne.d 100 percoet cima. em  pmLIa ate
Per  O. e.     pidvoa  poulaton   .r  quat  kimatn  (10 httee)       elm  or ab-o  the official acheol age.
Io o. h.  oiutrletad -Caspntd ao ehoo  f,ogr ag                  1tta-tota lad           tim t ,quieet    lectto   ae'faprvdpcaptatuta;Poie
orly.             1w r   :r           t-hlr    (-4nr),akgg                                 general eacationol * or teaher training teotratime  for poipile  -aoIll  of
POclat_o  00   totr   oteo       hlon(-4ra.,wriga12 ec 17 year. of Age: cor-eapodeme cmtr".aa re generally eacleded.
(liho.reae)  an  roiro   t5 seer nt mod -) aaparcotacee of mid.-oaia   rtmn   ereto   maan   Vocattional institotims. teclo.
-or popltir   16.1970 .nd 197' data.                                                      tooia         eattl   robrporacbo  opeataimedeedItly or me
Poatulaltt. Oroth rt9co  ;eroo)    Iotl      molort  ratn. of total                         dparweo.ta  of  eaomdaty tmattt,atima"
mid-,oar pop.latico. for 1950-fi  1960-50, oad 170-55.               ofae               Potil-teacheratino.1     or e.   adetdM   Toutl etadeotm efatzla  tI
POltlatit- orortf rt.n (vor,,t1o      ta  -  oOO             th rate.  o  oM                plniesr  ead S cmdery  lovet  divided by o.er. of teachers. tvh  tort.-
yp.,.IattOto  for 2950_f0. lOi-11. S        9d 190-75.                                    epodivi Janiso.d
'oa    rt,- tt. (Ot  tconi      Ona h... .1Ilv   birtt  pot thouand ofAdolt tItto-  rota  Searcautl * Liareom adulte  (Abte to r"and ea -wI.0  a
,id-....  poultin    0b. 19'an19' daa                                                     a prtc-ot&e of totel adolf pop.Lattm  aged 11 year., ad            ar
Crod. d.ath nat!`loot1 th .... d) tA.t I deoCth pot thooaaod of aid.
T-a  pool...   r  1900, 1970 aod 197, data.
CtOctran---     i    tae    .ooa          b r Of datcht.too  asma    fll heat             Paostmaser core  (oMI thq,m,*nd  o tail- P.... OtOar .- .-prt.a eaont.r.r
In hot toaln `rd-cl-  period if oh. -tprti.nea  pr-ont ao-                                ..atint I... that eight perema;  nolod.. eehbtanOoa, hearna. ed military -
opcI,fic  fortUIlty rstso     - 1 coaly i-o-na  orraoa tie  itt 1960,                     vahictes
1970. aod 1971.                                                  c~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAit. reoooIr S ter rhoatead So  etatia  All typo. of recei-n  for radi
Famlytlaolc -acentraaotollthuonda-  onul  ushn  f                boaooa.  o ~= ratpbi  pot tbo,seand of popolation: eaclodec  mtoon-d
atotoeofhrth-oor-     dFf"-.  uner... .oIat-alfelytttot n                                           cootr     d In year. shot regttrattc, of -di.e Seat. Me  ito
pl  iton   Protna..                                                                       WSitt  data ion recent year. may  bto  he   ean-bl. eLm. mat -omtriea
70.1, lantu-ua.ta ot   f:aorid o'a") - rPnataaO                                              blse   l tanaldoc.
d-.oioo   to  1 al arne.d Omnt eatt  00. grop.                                            ptblit par thatismnd poposattion';  lstlode   mslicamed TV receivr.to nm,ca-
11, 1111-11 I 11    lads.of par   p       trioMa  oatd I  yeara Mbtrgsrto   of TV aot  -ea it effet.'4*cl.
'001 0311 9177017109                                                 Woen~~~~~~~~~~~~~Meamapm  LcIstltimo feat thewoa,    nyOlatiml * ihac  the avrag    iree
ltda  ofloo  enduoInt tll  toott as(90-7s    a107-iti           f  a  topita            tt-o.f 'deity samaro  ttannre  bea.opar.t, dofimad .0 a pertodical pabIl-
atous  prouttin  of  ll fod oaudttee.   tOdctIOtaaoldea msad .td          tAtio   d-ovtd prkartly Co  -etrdic; Somr-I t-t. It te tmnld.r.   to
leaded   I 0  O  caed-n Pant bacia.  Cmaodttioia  to--   pnisary Ind.                     he "daily" If it appear. at 1eat feat ti-e  a weak.
lo.s noto ittted of .ufar) ohIuh aIn edible and cart.ic .utticatt                Cinem   AMa Iattead.o. ercot   a   et-gae        h   ebro   ikt
lo.0ff.sd   t   t r tltdod).  oggrot.ot  P-d-taot, of .ath otttrs                ..Id dontot the Toan. ieatding odaleet1    to di-it ioa   and  -bhit.
It ba...d or tationolI a-rotet  prodot..  priu      gta                                    -ilta..
Pet -Ptlt. aceP', of tlnet learc-tI of teti=mnt    - Ceepte  tIr
onrRy equtl-aot ofoa  food Suppl le  available  In  _ota7oy pr tapita,              "ih          a    ,.(,-m,      .cm-l  -i     S-,iIi2
"I'crl, andotatoto  It attk.  Not applito  ettade a-ntlnif.ad,tea.,                       forc.  ad ateaptovad hot CrIodiog hOanstat-,  todante, etc ifi-
qot .it       . c.d infood Ptrein.adt....i ,~I         in d'ortoib. ac.                   tie  ito  -niotam  noastrne  are not o-prable.
qoirmato  orn as tL-Mtd by FAO bha..d or physioIl-otl  -ede  for .--                    teISt (pearcent  - F-te  labor force as pateatag. of tttel labor fort.
rel ac.tiIty 7atd health o.natd.igi enirascota1 teeperatore, ho,                        seiotuoyaro              - Labor fern. in ficatag, forestry. hattac ad fiahing
oel1tmt.agotee d.Iarlhuliu  ta f Vp.platial, and .11oaing 10 Pet-                         00peoentogo of totl aI        n  ore
Ponot~     ..pl otfeta   houattl   oo.                                                  .znt       (paJrenta  - Lbabr bfort .   Sito itng. cocatowtion. amo.tattuie   and
Pen  anit  ouDO,  f eocoio tran. Par day) - Pottein. nmoat of pen                  electricity, -Mtr And gee aaPercetea. of touta  labor facts.
-:Pit. oat .oppl, of food per day.  Neat aepplyoffood Ia  Woind A0                      Priiti    eafaret      oa.me    dfpaa-Ptiieiea
aS  Z.  toqti=tt   f on al,l -  otriot ..tabliahed by US0A provida f Ot                   actinty ratee mr.   .idattlsae   dln.lbrto
a     IiImalooo   0   1  nm    fttl ntaic p., doy md 20 gr-aemo*    fttl,ml   a  Mceb  poplate   t.1ea   mptiey
of  tiel  od   olo  potot.  f  hic  10ons Otul  h  onealPttO       1960El  1970 ad 195' dta   Thee  ane EL.0'  panitipatim  raea  rflettieg
Thea. attade   r   enthnthcof7   rmo  tIe   protei   a 4ge-o    t-treacr f the papol.ana, eat loeg Otee troad.  * few  aa,t_et
23 tree  of antaI prot.. J.   anorag. fct the   od, propoaed b                             r   remcoIe oa
FAO It Iho Third -1 FOld P08S-ry.                                                         anoofr- doastecale 001  -ttiufrooat                 aet1  ad6  cdthtt
Per -catl  pr-toit  auttl  ft   aiout aod Pclac - Ptot.in oopply Of 1008                    the tlabo d-ordnt. rit age gtopit  154   non.-   or1  -    5an                 rt
Child I... I1-4 J,talt nt r tho,ucdf - Antual d-aha porthOo.- -NCEDSRBTO
and it aoe group 1-4 near,, to ohldld-  I t" OhI  ac  rttt; for a  t                    Prtent.. of erlooeitntohi   ah.t   id    oidb   tha 
decelftiogcoontIOo  fta dOiced  ror lt. talo..                       arto.. t ioh.ot 20 ponteat. Innero  20 poan-t. oAM  poorsat it pan=ar
ticLOt                                                                o~~~~~~~~~~~~~f h-b.lhOdO.
-If.        aoya  brhl,aa-ucrgO. tootr 01  oata of lif. ranait-
ity  ccotObh  190  19V0. and )9   uao-.                                              A'IVERTY TARGET GROUiPS
:tcaococrol tt  at.(or tho...ond.  --.co1 d-aha of itfanca  -dot                   hathoetad Iaalt tvn,illtm  totl   o  etttit,,.; at" adtca 
oooaof  An   a  to.n    lebrh                                                        bstotprrymmlott ht                         oI. tma- 1.0.1-   hol    ho      olom
doer t  fat  olro ("tototof ptaio     -total. urba..  and total -                     nutriti-aily  dequot. 810, PI.O  -eattie1 oo.--f.d  q m n   tno
bonbOnof pople (otal,  rban,and rral)  Ith   ,: r Iat,al  ato.t to            =fotala.;t
ta  Ootc  spn-lv  lio-cludoo  tr.od  ..rfar.. ater. oratctdbo                        etao  tot stO        ._norrn1"           eltt   a   aia  -  rbaP ad  -ural-
ochon1icacod  -ao    uha   htfo    rtte    orhol.a,  Spic.irlrlnv   ptnrrn  1-tes lo-d  is ma-third nfarn..-                                                  o   apt
aod  anlaroorlc   a  pooanogS oI  terrootv    ouain.proi   lncm   of tho  fttosry.  Urban  l-d  io drftodfe   thn tonal
tan.,,hat araapcilr  louttain  o  oceodost loecad tt ntt  'tha          local tit  ad3ooot ftn hichar coat of l~iote   It  _rban an_o
200  aters  trtaOcaa    ecnloa   a  tc    ihnra  nal                                      tifctod  bonano    ol-s eb Icuoevr'   o                 ee   (orcntl - -rb- ad
ar t. of t   -a Oc..    -.1rO   arto  r.aa cobble. a.c... ... Id ipnc             url   Per,..t of pouai- ubnad  -rural  aho Srn.                      ,t  pctn'.
rho  tO y   fu0w to  - -tetr  .I th. h .... ho14 do tot eon  to opotd
ditpro,ptlota-  cart of thc. da-  it f.tthito  the fatily    eatr  ac,                                                                   icneetoj  atd tsalf iD. DIotplotr
rt-1  1-1      nod 1r959 i.  .p          -



- 23 -
ANNE,'  I
Page 4 Gf 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS 147cNL ?X,  lOl'0CT IN 1977                                           ANNUAL RAT7  CF' ('rR   (   ccn3tant pric.s)
us. tan.        %                           1974_77                _976              1
GN.? 3t Yarket Pvices           39839          100.0                            7.4                11.3                5.4
Gross Deonestic Invez3tment    12119            30.4                           30.7                24.5               23.6
Gross Naticnal Sawing           11101           28.3                           26.3                16.6               17.8
Curren' Account Balance         -1018            2.5
Exports of scods, NFS           12639           31.7                            1.9                14.7                9 9
Imports cf Cods, NFS            13235           33.2                          33.1                 31.0              17.5
OjTFr'T, T_?-O  FCR.E AND
PCODUcTr17   i2  1 976
Value Added                      Labor Force-/                     17. A. Psr Wcrker
US$ Xln.       %                    Hln.        %                      ,Us           _ %
Agricult%:rs                     9897         30.4                   ]8.3       61                       541          50
Indust,y                        15032        46.2                     5.2       17                      2891         265
Services                         7636         23.4                    5.0       17                      1527         140
Unallaocatac                                                          1.4        5
Total/Average            2                                   2
32566 2C0O.0                        29.9      100                      1 7U8        100.0
G0Vr_d,'=-TI^'NAYCE
General Governroent                                 Central 0ovet-: n~.ient
(N    HLn.)           ,  f                                Xn.GD    __ RUEX cf _ __P
1971/78          L977/S  1976/7-1977/5               1977/8         19'717iS    I976/6-7 77
Current Rcoeiuts                     :8809             34.1         34.8                   8359           32.3            32.7
Current Erzenditurs                   S047             19.5         19.0                   269;           10.4            10.0
Current StxrvIus                      3762             154.         15.8                   5662                             '
Capital             Csr.nitnres       8822             34.1         33.0                   6287           24.3            24.4
Faterual Assis,ance (net)
YON.EY, C71DIT 'nd PRICES                    1972          1973         1974          19795         19i         1977
TMilion ; cutstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                         1161.4       1414.1        2156.3        3622.5       5278.9      7067.5
Bank credit to P-ablic Sector                  519.0        497.1       -1460.1      -1281.5         19f9.5     2094.4
Bank Cradit to Private Sactor                  750.2        854.4        1070.2       1786.1        2417.8      3514.4
(Percentages or Index Nuibers)
Nlonoy and Quasi !onev as I of O GP             15.1          15.9         14.9         21.9         26.7       27.3
Gencral Price lr.:e_x (19_l - 100)             172.9        203.9         217.0        289.6        352.4    423.1
Annual   rc?r.cnra-e chn,aas int
General Price lneA                              -3.5         17.9           6,3         33,5          21.7      21.5
Ban,k cre-it to ?ubliz Sector                   -2.3         -4.2           n.a.        n.a.          a.a.      n.a.
Bank credit to Private Sector                   26.9         12.7          26.6         66.8         35.4       45.3
NDTl   All conversion3 to collars in this table are at the average excharxge rato prevailing during tha period
covered.
1/ Tctal labor force; unf!mplowd ars allocated to sector oT their normal occupstion.  "Unallocated" consiqts
mainly off une:ployed usrkor3 os3eking thoir :irst Job.
2/ Index of Urbar. Constimer .>. coo
,'ot applic..lbe



ANNJ:X I
- 24 -                      Page 5 of 5
-24-
TRADE PAYNENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERACE 1976-78)
1976     J977      1978                                                US $ln    %
(ISillions US $)
Fxports of Goods, NFS          10,549   12,974   10,979             Crude 011                            10,170    92.5
Imports of Goods, NFS          10,517   13,271   14,242             Cocoa Products                          477      4.3
Resource Cap (deficit   -)         32      -297   -3,263            Palm Products                            33      0.4
Tin                                      20     0.2
Interest Payments (net)           386       324      246            All Other Commodities                   292      2.6
Workers' Remittances              -         -        -
Other Factor Payments (net)      -676      -860     -476
Net Transfers                    -156      -156     -270
Balance on Current Account       -414      -989   -3,763                   Total                         10,997   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         340       440      186            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEE$FR 31, 1978
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                   61        96    1,434                                                        US $ Mln
Amortization                   -29   .  -62       -22
Subtotal                        32        34    1,412             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               2j180
Capital Grants                   .                   -                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Copital (net)              -453      -112       -5              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                - 12      -216     -176
2ncrease in Reserves (+)         -507      -843   -2,346            DEBT SERVICE PATIO for 197S-
Cross Reserves (end year)       5,517    4,617       ..                                                           -
Met Reserves   (end year)       5,433    4,590    2,244               Public Debt. incl. guaranteed             0.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 *
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                         280       158       174
of which:  Petroleum          -         -        -
Exports                        9,468   11,553    9,488
of which:  Petroleum        9,468   11,553    9,488    IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Dec. 31, 1978) (Million US $):
IBRD        IDA
RATF OF F2WCHAINGN 
Outstanding & Disbursed                450         3S.3
197T:  N1.00  =  USti.62                                          Undisbursed                            343          -
1976:  N1.00  -  US$1.60                                          Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          793         38.3
1977:  N1.00  -  US$1.55
1978:  N1.00  -  US$1.58
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
Less than 1%
Not Available
September, 1979



- 25 -                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as of August 31, 1979)
Loan or
Credit                                                                      US$ million
Number       Year      Borrower      Purpose                        Amount (less cancellations)
Bank      IDA   Undisibursed
Fourteen loans and two credits fully disbursed                      319.3    35.3
427         1965      Nigeria       Roads                           14.5               2.5
814         1972      Nigeria       Education                       17.3               2.9
838         1972      Nigeria       Roads                           26.3              10.1
847         1972      NEPA          Power                           76.0               2.5
922         1973      NPA           Port                            55.0              4.8
929         1973      Nigeria       Education                       54.0              47.5
1045         1974      Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.                       20.0              6.2
1091         1975      Nigeria       Livestock                       21.0              17.0
1092         1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Funtua               29.0               2.9
1099         1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Gusau                19.0               2.1
1103         1975      Nigeria       Rice Dev.                        17.5             10.4
1164         1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Gombe                 21.0              5.2
1183         1975      Nigeria       M.W. State Oil Palm             29.5              26,5
1191         1976      Nigeria       E.C. State Oil Palm             19.0              16.1
1192         1976      Nigeria       W. State Oil Palm               17.0              13.3
1454         1977      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Lafia                27.0              23.4
1455         1977      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Ayangba              35.0              30.2
1591         1978      Nigeria       Nuc. Est. Smallholder Oil    30.0                 30.0
1597         1978      NIDB          Industrial Dev.                 60.0              60.0
* 1711         1979      Nigeria       Water Supply - Kaduna            92,0             92.0
* 1719         1979      Nigeria       Agri. & Rural Mgmt. Inst.         9.0              9.0
Total                                       1008.4    35,3   414.7
Of which has been repaid                     131.2      2.0
Total outstanding 1/                         877.2    33.3
Amount sold                       16.8
of which has been repaid          16.4         0.4
** Total now held by Bank and IDA                876.8    33.3      _
Total undisbursed                            414.7      0.0   414.7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of August 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                             Type of            Amount in US$ Million
Year                                              Business           Loan   Equity   rotal
1964, 1967,       Arewa Textiles Ltd.             Textile Mfg.         1.0    0.6        1.6
1970
1964            Nigeria Industrial              Dev. Fin. Co.                1.4       1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973            Funtua Cottonseed               Veg. Oil             1.6               1.6
Crushing Ltd.                   Crushing
1973            Nigerian Aluminum               Aluminum             1.0    0.3        1.3
Extrusion Ltd.                  Processing
1974            Lagiagi Sugar                   Sugar                        O.1     O1
Estates
Total Gross Commitments                              3,6    2.4       6.0
Less cancellations                                0.3               0,3
Less sold or repaid                               1.9    1.5        3.4
Total Commitments now held by. IFC                   1,4    0.9       2,3
Undisbursed                                                 a 0.1     0.1
* Not yet effective.
** Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
1/ Excluding cancellation of 5.0.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 427-UNI    Western Nigeria Road Project:  US214.5 million Loan of
September 26, 1965; Effective Date: March 29, 1966;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975
The project has been completed. The Bank awiits word from the Gov-
ernment on the closing of the loan.
Loan No. 814-UNI    Second Education Project:  US$17.3 million Loan of
April 18, 1972; Effective Date: November 28, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
There has been substantial improvement in recent months in project
implementations. Of the 30 project schools, 6 have been completed and 14
are more than 90 percent completed. The project unit has been strengthened
and has successfully assumed responsibilities previously handled by consul-
tants. The loan should be fully disbursed by December 31, 1979.
Izan No. 838-UNI    Fifth Highway Project:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973;
Closing Date. June 30, 1980
The construction components of the project have been completed.
The closing date of the loan was recently extended in order to complete
disbursements and to allow consultants to complete preparation for a Sixth
Highway Project.
Loan No. 847-UNI    Fourth Power Project:  US$76.0 million Loan of
June 30, 1972; Effective Date: June 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
While the completion of the rural electrification component has
been delayed, the project is expected to be completed by the end of 1979.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lem-, which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Loan No. 922-UNI    Second Lagos Port Project:  US$55.0 million Loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Civil works are complete.  Container cranes are now on order and
will be in operation by the end of 1979.  Total project costs are much in
excess of the appraisal estimates due to labor awards and cost overruns.
A revision of the tariff structure in 1977 considerabl- improved the finan-
cial situation of the National Ports Authority.
Loar No. 929-UNI    Third Education Proiect:  US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975X
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold and t:he
scope of the project has been revised. Project administration was compli-
cated by the partiticn of many states in 1976. The project unit has been
strengthened recently by the appointment of a full time project director, and
the states have made adequate financial provisions. Project implementation
has been improved and, witi all contracts awarded, the loan should be fully
e.sbursed by December 1982.  A revision of the project scope was approved by
the Board in September 1979.
Loan No. 1045-UNI   Second Cocoa Project: US$20.0 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Although the creation of new States has created some organizational
and managerial problems, the project is almost completed in all four atates.
Planting targets have been achieved, but other physical development, including
road development, has not met planned objectives fully. A follow-up project
has been appraised.
Loan No. 1091-UNI   Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976L
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
States and operational difficulties. Serious problems of counterpart funding
from the Federal Government have been encountered. A contract has recently
been concluded with a management consulting firm and, as a result, prospects
for project implementation are greatly improved.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
.oan No. 1092-UNI   Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1975; Effective Date:  January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily with excellent
farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State Governments.
Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally
controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning Unit
financed under this loan is fully operational. Project costs are in line
with appraisal estimates and disbursement is proceeding satisfactorily. An
expanded second stage project to cover the remainder of Kaduna State has been
appraised.
Loan No. 1099-UNI   Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily with support from both
Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is good and appraisal objec-
tives are being met and in some cases exceeded. Project unit costs are some
25 percent above appraisal estimates due to domestic inflation. There have
been problems relating to the timely delivery of fertilizer supplies which
are centrally procured by the Federal Government. Recent agreements between
the Bank and the Government on the streamlining of fertilizer procurement
should help to resolve this problem. The possibility of a second phase proj-
ect is being examined.
Loan No. 1103-UNI   Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25,
1975; Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow due to deficiencies in coun-
terpart funding and staffing limitations. The Bank has withdrawn from the
project component located in Cross River State because of acute problems of
cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. Plans to reallocate the re-
maining funds to project components in Anambra and Imo States, where physical
project progress is more satisfactory, will depend upon improved counterpart
funding, and a satisfactory resolution of staffing problems.
Loan No. 1164-UNI   Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29,
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is being implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is most favorable.
The demand for inputs and the production of maize is exceeding appraisal
estimates. Problems in recruiting intermediate and junior staff continue.
The preparation of a feasibility study for an expanded second-stage project
to cover the remainder of Bauchi State has been completed. The expanded
project is scheduled for appraisal early in 1980.



- 219
ANNEX IT-
Page 5 of 6
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:  US$29.5 mil-
lion Loan of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: October 17,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition and completion of the Federal
and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Appraisal targets have
not been met for the smallholder component as a result of financial and man-
agerial problems. Management has improved recently but planting targets are
behind schedule. Cost overruns are likely to be substantial.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0 million
Loaa_ of February 12, 1976; Effective Date:  April 6, 1977;
Closiag Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was delayed due to the creation of new states
and problems with intermediate and junior staffing. The latter have now been
resolved, but there are problems of local counterpart funding. Appraisal
targets have not been met and substanLi-al cost overruns are expected.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0 million
Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date: February 13,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component is facing managerial and financial diffi-
culties, and final targets may not be achieved. Problems with estate land
acquisition and funding delayed effectiveness, and will result in a reduced
planted area.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:  March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although local counterpart funding is now adequate, the project
is still experiencing s me problems of a technical nature, particularly
concerning extension and training. However, Government is responding to Bank
action and overall project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After experiencing some problems of local counterpart funding, the
project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Proj-
ect: US$30.0 million Loan of June 6, 1978; Effective
Date: July 10, 1979j Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project's physical progress is satisfactory.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$60 mil-
lion Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date: October 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The first sub-loans have
been processed and approved.
Loan No. 1667-UNI   Bida Agricultural Development Project:  US$23 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is moving towards effectiveness satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1668-UNI   Ilorin Agricultural Development Prolect:  US$27 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is moving towards effectiveness satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1679-UNI   Forestry Plantation Project:  US$31 million Loan;
not yet signed; Closing Date: June.30, 1985
Loan documents are expected to be signed in late October 1979.
Loan No. 1711-UNI   Kaduna Water SupPly Project:  US$92 million Loan of
July 16, 1979; not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding towards effectiveness satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1719-UNI   Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
Project: US$9 million Loan of July 16. 1979;
not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is moving towards effectiveness satisfactorily.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA - URBAN DEVELOPMENT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 9 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project': Bauchi State
Development Board and Consultants
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: October 1977
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: October 1977
(e) Date of departure of appraisal mission: December 1978
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: June 29, 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: February 15, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Federal Government would onlend US$17.8 million to the
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement for a period of 20 years including 5 years grace with
annual interest at 6 percent. It would be a condition of Loan
effectiveness that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement be executed bet-
ween the Federal Government and the FMBN in a form acceptable to
the Bank (para. 53).
(b) The FMBN would onlend US$4.45 million to the BSDB under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement for a period of 5 years without grace
with interest and service charges amounting to 10 percent per
annum. This loan would finance the cost of urban upgrading and
the development of serviced plots and would be recoverable from
the ultimate beneficiary. It would be a condition of Loan effec-
tiveness that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement be executed between the
FMBN and the BSDB in a form acceptable to the Bank (para. 49).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) The FMBN would extend to project beneficiaries construction
and home improvement loans having a term of 15 years (without
grace) and with interest and service charges together amounting
to no less than 10 percent per annum (para. 42).
(d) The FMBN would recover directly from project beneficiaries
the cost of land and the cost of plot development, such costs
to be recovered over a period of 15 years (without grace)
and with interest and service charges together amounting
to no less than 10 percent per annum (para. 49).



________   _______________________________________________________________                                                        IBRD   14154~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD     41,5
--"-  -,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,4~IF
- --~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ k
0   E  R  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~  K           j                                                                                       TI~F  ~  A Ek O
1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
D.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
P  ~~~~~~~~U&AOV  OPETuRJC
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                    ACSAIOPOJC
-.    ~                                                                                                         -~~QCATONOf~r~oi~cAOwt.
,    A1~~~~~~~~AN71C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
~- --' ~  I                           'V                                                                          _____________________d____~~:R K E O WN     Ijj
-c                -24 ~       ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 2  -                     -



