D 0CU,Y X ,5 LOAN NUKIER 2045-9C
Loan Agreement
(Power Transmission Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO ECUATORIANO DE ELECTRIFICACION
Dated                             , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2045 EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               , 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and INSTITUTO ECUATORIANO DE ELECTRIFICACION (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is currently carrying out its
1981-1984 Master Plan which includes, inter alia, an inventory of
Ecuador's hydroelectric resources and the optimal expansion of
its electric power generation, transmission and distribution
facilities, and also the use of alternative sources of power
generation;
(B) the Project described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement is
also included in the Master Plan and the Borrower has requested
the Bank to assist in financing the Project by making the Loan
as hereinafter described; and
(C) by an Agreement of even date herewith between the
Republic of Ecuador (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and the
Bank (such Agreement hereinafter called the Guarantee Agreement),
the Guarantor has agreed to: (i) guarantee repayment of the
principal of the Loan and payment of interests and other charges
thereon; and (ii) undertake certain obligations in the Guarantee
Agreement set forth.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Subsidiary" means any company or cooperative of which
a majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by
one or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and
one or more of its subsidiaries, and such term includes the
regional companies to be established pursuant to Section 4.06 of
this Agreement and the following electric power companies;
(i) Empresa Elctrica Regional del (hereinafter called
Norte S.A.                     Regional Norte);
(ii) Empresa Electrica Quito S.A.    (hereinafter called
Quito);
(iii) Cooperativa de Electrificaci6n (hereinafter called
Rural Santo Domingo C. Ltd.    Santo Domingo);
(iv) Empresa Elctrica Ambato S.A. (hereinafter called
Ambato);
(V) Empresa El'ctrica Riobamba     (hereinafter called
S.A.                           Riobamba);
(vi) Empresa El4ctrica Bolivar      (hereinafter called
S.A.                           Bollvar);
(vii) Empresa El'ctrica Regional     (hereinafter called
Centro Sur S.A.                Centro Sur);
(viii) Empresa El'ctrica Regional     (hereinafter called
del Sur S.A.                   Sur);
(ix) Empresa El4ctrica Esmeraldas   (hereinafter called
S.A.                           Esmeraldas);
(x)  Sistema El'ctrico Regional    (hereinafter called
Manabf S.A.                  Manabf);
(xi) Empresa El'ctrica Peninsular   (hereinafter called
Santa Elena S.A.               Santa Elena);


﻿- 3 -
(xii) Empresa Electrica de Milagro (hereinafter called
S.A.                          Milagro);
(xiii) Empresa El'ctrica de Los Rios (hereinafter called
S.A.                          Los Rfos); and
(xiv)   Empresa E14ctrica El Oro S.A. (hereinafter called
El Oro).
(b) "Group I Subsidiaries" means the following Subsidiaries:
Quito, Regional Centro Sur, Manabil, Santa Elena, Milagro and El
Oro;
(c) "Group II Subsidiaries " means the following Subsi-
diaries: Norte, Ambato, Riobamba and Los Rfos;
(d) "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, begin-
ning on January 1 and ending on December 31;
(e)  "Rates Regulations" means Decree No. 684 of the
Guarantor, dated August 7, 1975, published in the Official Gazette
No. 869 of August 18, 1975;
(f) "Resoluci6n" means the Resoluci6n No. 71 of the
Borrower's Board of Directors, dated May 21, 1981, which estab-
lished a program of increases in the rates for the sale of
electricity by the Borrower and the Subsidiaries;
(g) "Master Plan" means the Borrower's 1981 - 1984 expansion
plan approved by its Board of Directors by Resoluci6n No. 028
dated January 29, 1980; and
(h) "National Development Plan" means the Guarantor's Plan
Nacional de Desarrollo 1980-1984 approved by Executive Decree
No. 104, May 8, 1980, and published in the Registro Oficial dated
May 8, 1980.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of
interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and three-fifths per cent per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate engineering, financial and public utility practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the studies included in
Parts C.1, D.l and E of the Project under terms of reference
and according to timetables, satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon the completion of
each of such studies, furnish to the Bank copy of the correspond-
ing reports; and (ii) carry out the recommendations of such
studies which are satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower in a
manner and according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the
Borrower in: (i) the supervision of the carrying out of Parts A
and B of the Project; (ii) the carrying out of the studies in-
cluded in Part C.1 and Part D.1 of the Project; and (iii) the
carrying out of the study included under Part E of the Project;
and (b) employ consultants whose qualifications, experience,
terms of reference, work plans, reporting procedures and all
other technical aspects of their contractual arrangements shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the Borrower in: (i) the
carrying out of the assets revaluation and related tasks referred
to in Section 5.07 (a) of this Agreement; and (ii) the carrying
out of the study referred to in Section 6.05 of this Agreement.
The consultants referred to in paragraph (a) (i) hereof shall be
employed by the Borrower not later than September 30, 1982; the
consultants referred to in paragraphs (a) (ii), (b) (i) and (b)
(ii) hereof shall be employed from not later than December 31,
1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be


﻿-6-
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed (ut of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) prepare quarterly reports on the
carrying out of the Project and the administration, operation and
financial condition of the Borrower; and (ii) furnish to the Bank
such reports within 60 days of the end of the respective quarter.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) prepare semi-annual reports on
the administration, operation and financial condition of each of
the Subsidiaries; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such reports within
90 days of the end of the respective period.
(e) Upon award by the Borrower of any contracts for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish the description thereof, the name


﻿- 7 -
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(f) Starting not later than January 1, 1982 and until
quarterly consolidated financial statements, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the Borrower and the Subsidiaries are prepared and made
available to the Bank in a timely manner, the Borrower shall; (i)
not later than 75 days after the end of each calendar quarter,
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing the Borrower's per-
formance, and the consolidated performance of the Borrower and the
Subsidaries, through the end of such quarter and projected through
the remainder of the fiscal year, in meeting the annual rate of
return requirements set forth in Sections 5.05 and 5.08 of this
Agreement; and (ii) cause the Subsidiaries to prepare and furnish
to the Borrower the information required for such purposes.
(g) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borruwer and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(h) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property, equipment and any relevant records and documents of the
Borrower.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to
ecological and environmental factors.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations in accordance with appro-
priate business, financial and public utility practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by adequate, experienced and competent staff.
(b) The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable oppor-
tunity to comment on any proposed reorganization of the Borrower
which may affect the operations or financial condition of the
Borrower or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain,
and cause each of the Subsidiaries to maintain, its corporate
existence and the right to carry on its operations, and take, and
cause the Subsidiaries to take, all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain,
and cause each of the Subsidiaries to operate and maintain, its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not sell or otherwise dispose, or
authorize the sale or disposal by any Subsidiary, of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
carrying on of its business and undertaking, including the
Project, provided, however, that the Borrower or any Subsidiary
may sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property which shall
have become obsolete, worn out or unnecessary for use in its
operations.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (a) cause its Paute-Amaluza
dam, its reservoir and associated structures, earthworks and


﻿-9-
waterways to be continuously monitored and inspected at least
once a year by qualified and experienced experts in accordance
with appropriate engineering practices, in order to determine
whether there are any deficiencies or potential deficiencies in
the condition of such structures or earthworks, or in the quality
and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of such
structures or earthworks, which may endanger the safety of such
structures and earthworks and if any deficiency or potential
deficiency is found, it shall promptly take all action necessary
for remedying such deficiency; and
(b) promptly after each such inspection is completed,
furnish to the Bank a copy of the inspection report.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
October 31, 1982, complete the ongoing study on the marginal cost
of electricity generation;
(b) promptly upon its completion, furnish to the Bank a
copy of such study and of its recommendations, together with its
proposals, based on such recommendations, for a comprehensive
marginal cost study, which will enable the Borrower to revise its
structure of retail rates for the sale of electricity;
(c) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
such recommendations and proposals; and
(d) carry out such study including, if such is the case, any
reasonable modifications thereto requested by the Bank, according
to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.06. Not later than December 31, 1984, the Borrower
shall integrate the Subsidiaries into no more than ten regional
companies, which shall remain under the control of the Borrower.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare a preliminary
program, satisfactory to the Bank, to improve its supervision and
participation in the management of the Subsidiaries, such program
to include an upgrading of periodic reporting by the Subsidiaries,
arrangements to improve the contacts between the Borrower's
and the Subsidiaries' management, the establishment of procedures
entailing a closer evaluation and control of the Subsidiaries'
operations and capital budgets and the assignment of increased
responsibilities to the Borrower's directors at the Subsidaries'
Boards of Directors;


﻿- 10 -
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment
on such program;
(c) revise such preliminary program taking into account
the recommendations of the study included under Part D.1 of the
Project and any comments of the Bank thereon;
(d) carry out such program in a manner and according to a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank;
(e) not later than December 31, 1981, furnish to the Bank
a report describing the mechanisms it proposes to establish in
order to enable each Subsidiary to meet the financial require-
ments and rates of return set forth by the Borrower pursuant to
the provisions of this Agreement;
(f) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
said report; and
(g) establish such mechanisms in a manner and according
to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.08. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall retain, and cause the Subsidiaries to retain,
all earnings from electrical power services, excluding its
worker's participation thereon, for purposes of investing them
in the development and improvement of the electric power sector.
Section 4.09. (a) Not later than July 1, 1982 the Borrower
shall establish and thereafter maintain, and cause the Subsidia-
ries to establish and to maintain thereafter, an adequate system
of surcharges for late payment of retail electricity bills.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) prepare quarterly reports on
public sector receivables, such reports to be made on a consoli-
dated basis covering the Borrower and the Subsidiaries; (ii)
furnish to the Bank such reports within 75 days of the end of
each quarter; (iii) have such reports prepared not later than
January 1, 1982 with regard to the Borrower and the Group I
Subsidiaries and not later than January 1, 1983 with regard to
the Borrower and all the Subsidiaries.
(c) For purposes of this Section "public sector receivables"
means the retail electricity bills issued to the Guarantor and all
public sector institutions and agencies, including municipalities,
which are overdue for more than 30 days.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1981, prepare and furnish to
the Bank a financial program which will, inter alia, establish a
long-term borrowing strategy for the financing of the investments
provided for in the Master Plan for itself and the Subsidiaries
and adequate arrangements for limiting the Subsdiaries' reliance
on the Borrower as lender of first resort and for assisting them
in obtaining long-term financing;
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
such program; and
(c) carry out such program taking into account the Bank's
comments thereon.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than five months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the- accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
(b) The financial statements referred to in paragraph (a)
above shall include consolidated financial statements for the
Borrower and the Subsidiaries, which the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, within the five-month period established in paragraph
(a) (ii) above, according to the following timetable: (A) for
fiscal year 1981, a consolidated financial statement for the


﻿- 12 -
Borrower and Group I Subsidiaries; (B) for fiscal year 1982, a
consolidated financial statement for the Borrower and Group I
and Group II Subsidiaries; and (C) for fiscal year 1983, and all
fiscal years thereafter, for the Borrower and all Subsidiaries.
(c) Not later than March 31, 1982, the Borrower shall employ
the auditors referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Until the Project shall have been com-
pleted, the Borrower shall obtain the concurrence of the Bank
before committing itself, or any Subsidiary committing itself, to
any capital expenditures (not required for the Project or for
other projects financed by the Bank or included in the Master
Plan) if the aggregate of such capital expenditures and all such
other capital expenditures made or to be made by the Borrower or
any such Subsidiary exceeds or will exceed an amount equivalent to
two per cent of the aggregate gross fixed assets in operation of
the Borrower and of its Subsidiaries.
(b) For purposes of obtaining the Bank's concurrence, the
Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank
a report, satisfactory to the Bank, showing that such capital
expenditure is economically justified and financially sound, and


﻿- 13 -
that financing is available under terms and conditions which
will not materially affect the Borrower's, or the respective
Subsidiary's, financial condition and the efficient execution of
the Project.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) take all such measures, including adjustment of the
structure or levels of its rates for the sale of electricity, as
may be necessary to generate an annual return at a rate of at
least four per cent (4%) in fiscal year 1982, eight per cent
(8%) in fiscal year 1983, and eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%)
in fiscal year 1984 and every fiscal year thereafter, on the
average rate base of the Borrower;
(b) for purposes of paragraph (a) above:
(i) each fiscal year the annual return shall be calcu-
lated by dividing the net income before interest
and other charges on debt for that year by the
average of the rate base at the beginning and at
the end of that year;
(ii) the term "net income" means all operating revenues
of the Borrower less all its operating expenses;
(iii) the term "rate base" means the gross value of fixed
assets, including the value of any intangible
assets subject to depreciation or amortization, as
annually revalued, less the accumulated amounts
similarly revalued in respect of depreciation of
assets, based on appropriate methods of valuation
and revaluation acceptable to the Bank; plus a
,provision for working capital, calculated in the
manner set forth in Article 7 of the Rate Regula-
tions in effect on the date of this Agreement;
and
(iv) the "average rate base" will be determined by
adding the value of the rate base at the end of a
fiscal year to the value of the rate base at the
beginning of that year and dividing the total by
two.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, other than for money


﻿- 14 -
borrowed for financing the Project or other Bank financed pro-
jects, unless its net revenues for the fiscal year immediately
preceding such incurrence or for the twelve-month period ended
prior to such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not
less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be
incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all debt of the Borrower, includ-
ing debt for the service of which the     Borrower is responsible,
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred under a contract,
agreement or other instrument providing for or guaranteeing such
debt, or for the modification of its terms of payment, on the date
of such contract, agreement or instrument;
(c) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources, adjusted to take account of the Borrower's rates for the
sale of electricity in effect at the time of the incurrence of
debt even though they were not in effect during the fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all
expenses of operation and maintenance, administration, and taxes,
if any, but before deduction of provision for depreciation and
amortization of assets, and payment of interest and other charges
on debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt excluding any interest
and other charges payable by the Borrower during construction
of any of its projects, so long as such interest and other charges
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of such project; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency
of the Guarantor debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by the Borrower at the time such
valuation is made for the purpose of servicing such debt, or, if
such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange
that will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.07. (a) The Borrower shall, with the assistance
of the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) of this


﻿- 15 -
Agreement and in accordance with methodologies satisfactory to the
Bank: (i) carry out a detailed inventory of its fixed assets and
an assessment of their replacement value; (ii) furnish to the Bank
the results of such assessment, and allow the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on its results; (iii) promptly upon the
receipt of the Bank's comments, reflect such assessment, as
amended in accordance with any reasonable comments of the Bank
thereto, in its records and financial statements; and (iv) design
recording systems that will enable the Borrower to maintain at all
times its fixed assets inventory up to date.
(b) On the basis of the inventory and assessment referred to
in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall: (i) revalue its assets
and reflect the results of such revaluation in its 1982 financial
statements; and (ii) thereafter, annually revalue its assets as
provided by the legislation of the Guarantor in effect on the date
of this Agreement.
(c) Starting in fiscal year 1980 and until the inventory and
assessment referred to in paragraph (a) above has been completed
and reflected in the Borrower's records, the Borrower shall
annually revalue its fixed assets in operation by applying appro-
priate inflation indices and revaluation methods satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 5.08. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 5.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall take, and cause
each of the Subsdiaries to take, all such measures, including
adjustment of their rates for the sale of electricity, as may
be necessary to generate a consolidated annual return for the
Borrower and all Subsidiaries of at least four per cent (4%) in
fiscal year 1982, of at least eight per cent (8%) in fiscal year
1983, and of at least eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) for
fiscal year 1984 and every fiscal year thereafter.
(b) The annual returns provided in paragraph (a) above shall
be calculated by dividing the consolidated net income before
interest and -other charges on debt of the Borrower and the
Subsidiaries for such fiscal year by the average of the con-
solidated rate base of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries at the
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(c) The terms "net income" and "rate base" have the meanings
set forth in Section 5.05 (b) (ii) and 5.05 (b) (iii) of this
Agreement, respectively, and the average of the consolidated rate
base shall be calculated as set forth in Section 5.05 (b) (iv) of
this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
Section 5.09. (a) As provided in the Resoluci6n, the Borrower
shall increase, and cause the Subsidiaries to increase, the
average rates for the sale of electricity by not less than 3% per
month, until the Borrower has, for itself and on a consolidated
basis, achieved and presented evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that it has achieved the rates of return set forth in Sections
5.05 and 5.08 of this Agreement.
(b) The term "average rates" means the weighted average
of the rates for the various consumer classes, as defined in the
prevailing rate structures, where the weights to be used shall be
based on the proportion that sales to that consumer class bear to
total sales of electricity of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries.
(c) Without any limitation to other adjustments in the rates
for the sale of electricity that may be required under the
provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, not later than
January 1, 1982, put into effect, and cause the Subsidiaries to
put into effect, the automatic rate adjustments provided by
Article 15 of the Rate Regulations in effect on the date of this
Agreement.
(d) In order to enable the Bank to monitor the Borrower's
performance of its obligations under this Agreement related to
increases and adjustments of the rates for the sale of electri-
city, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank reports, within 30
days of the end of each month for the Borrower and Group I Sub-
sidiaries and semi-annually for all other Subsidiaries, of such
scope and detail as shall be reasonably requested by the Bank, on
the level, for each consumer category, of the electricity rates
charged by the Borrower and the Subsidiaries during the preceding
month.
ARTICLE VI
Other Covenants
Section 6.01. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank reports
which will identify the accounting problems faced by each Sub-
sidiary and will include specific proposals to solve them.   Such
reports shall be furnished to the Bank not later than December 31,
1981 with regard to the Group I Subsidiaries and not later than
July 1, 1982 with regard to all other Subsidiaries.
Section 6.02. The Borrower shall cause each of the Sub-
sidiaries:


﻿- 17 -
(a) to carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank and with the assistance of experienced and qualified
consultants, a detailed inventory of its fixed assets and to
assess their replacement value, in accordance with methodologies
consistent with those applied by the Borrower;
(b) to furnish to the Borrower the results of such assess-
ment and to reflect such assessment, as amended in accordance with
any reasonable comments of the Borrower thereto, in its records
and financial statements;
(c) to design, with the assistance of the consultants
referred to in paragraph (a) above, recording systems that will
enable the Subsidiary to maintain its fixed assets inventory up
to date at all times;
(d) to carry out the undertakings set forth in paragraphs
(a), (b) and (c) above, according to the following timetable:
(i) Group I Subsidiaries: not later than December 31,
1982;
- (ii) Group II Subsidiaries: not later than June 30,
1983; and
(iii) All other Subsidiaries: not later than December 31,
1983;
(e) until the inventory and assessment referred to in
paragraph (a) above shall have been completed and reflected in the
Subsidiary's records, to annually revalue its fixed assets in
operation by applying inflation indices and in accordance with
methodologies consistent with those being applied by the Borrower;
(f) once the inventory and assessment referred to in
paragraph (a) above have been completed and reflected in the
Subsidiary's records and financial statements, to annually revalue
its assets as provided in the legislation of the Guarantor in
effect on the date of this Agreement;
(g) to review and, if required by the Borrower, revise its
accounting system and the preparation of financial statements,
in order to enable the Borrower to prepare the quarterly reports
referred to in Section 3.04 (f) of this Agreement and the consol-
idated financial statements referred to in Section 5.02 (b) of
this Agreement; and


﻿- 18 -
(h) to employ independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and the Borrower, according to the timetable set forth in para-
graph (d) above, to audit its accounts and financial statements
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied and to furnish to the Borrower audited financial state-
ments and such additional information as may be required by the
Borrower for the timely preparation of the consolidated financial
statements referred to in Section 5.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The Borrower undertakes to assist and supervise
the Subsidiaries in the carrying out of the actions referred
to in Section 6.02 of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. The Borrower shall: (a) cause the Subsidiaries
to construct, in accordance with the standard designs and
specifications of the Borrower, the sub-transmission facilities
required for the utilization of the facilities to be constructed
under the Project and to complete and to make operative such
sub-transmission facilities in a timely manner so as to coincide
with the start of operations of the facilities constructed under
the Project;
(b) adequately supervise the construction of such sub-
transmission facilities and report to the Bank, from time to time
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, the
results of such supervision; and
(c) exchange views with the Bank on any proposed changes
in the standard designs or specifications of the Borrower for
sub-transmission facilities.
Section 6.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
carry out a study on the means to improve the overall efficiency
of the Subsidiaries' distribution systems, such study to include
a review of current planning, construction and operational
practices and recommendations on the standardization of such
construction and operational practices, improvements of existing
distribution systems and measures to reduce losses and theft of
electricity;
(b) promptly upon its completion, furnish to the Bank a copy
of such study and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment thereon; and


﻿- 19 -
(c) carry out, and cause the Subsidiaries to carry out,
according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank, all such
recommendations of the study approved by the Bank and the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall have repealed, abrogated,
amended or failed to carry out or enforce the Resoluci6n.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Guarantor and the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the program referred to in Section 4.07 (a) of this
Agreement has been furnished to the Bank; and
(b) the auditors referred to in Section 5.02 (a) of this
Agreement have been selected.
Section 8.02. The dateO.-.    % 4      , is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 20 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
INECEL
Avenida 6 de Diciembre 2275 y Orellana
Quito
Ecuador
Telex:
2243 ED
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia', United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO ECUATORIANO DE ELECTRICIFICACION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment,                    55,600,000       100% of foreign
materials and                                 expenditures
associated                                    and 85% of
services                                      local expendi-
tures
(2) Civil works                    2,700,000       14% (repre-
senting the
estimated
foreign expen-
diture com-
ponent)
(3) Consulting
services and
related expenses:
(a) Under Parts A               700,000       100% of foreign
and B of the                             expenditures
Project
(b) Under Part C
of the Project           2,150,000       95%
(c) Under Parts D             3,650,000       70%
and E of the
Project
(4) Interest and other            13,800,000       Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
August 14, 1984


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Unallocated                  21,400,000
TOTAL        100,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,000,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
June 1, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)


﻿- 23 -
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-24 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Transmission Lines
1.   Construction of about 338 circuit kin of 230 kV trans-
mission lines: (i) from the Paute hydroelectric plant to
Totoras (near Ambato); and (ii) from Milagro to Machala.
2.   Construction of about 427 circuit km of 138 kV trans-
mission lines: (i) from Guayaquil to Santa Elena; (ii)
from Cuenca to Loja; (iii) from Ibarra to Tulcan; and
(iv) from Totoras to Ambato.
Part B:   Substations
Construction of substations and installation of step-down
transformers totalling about 280 MVA capacity at Machala,
Riobamba, Santa Elena, Posorja, Tulcan and Loja and expansion of
the substation at Ibarra.
Part C:   Training
A training program consisting of:
1.   a study on the adequacy of, and possible improvements
to, existing training programs and training facilities;
2.   acquisition and utilization of laboratory and training
equipment; and
3.   a program of scholarships for the Borrower's managerial,
technical and administrative staff.
Part D:   Institutional Development
1.   A study of the Borrower's structure and operations
(including organizational, financial, data processing
and commercial aspects and procedures and related
aspects of the operations of the Subsidiaries) and the
formulation of a program of institutional improvements.
2.   Acquisition, development and use of computer software
for accounting, engineering and commercial operations.


﻿- 25 -
Part E:   National Dispatch Center
A study covering the preparation of designs, tech-
nical specifications and bidding documents for a
national dispatch center for the Borrower's national
interconnected system.
Parts A and B of the Project are expected to be completed
by December 31, 1984 and Parts C, D and E of the Project are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1986
through   February 15, 1998                3,845,000
On August 15, 1998                              3,875,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                            1.70%
before maturity
More than three years but not                        3.40%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                          6.20%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       8.50%
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                              9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice
in order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower
of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall
be included.


﻿- 29 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the procurement of computer software and hard-
ware, laboratory and training equipment and vehicles, estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 each, may be awarded
after obtaining quotations from a group of potential suppliers
broad enough, under the circumstances, to assure competitive
prices from the member countries of the Bank (including, for the
purpose of this paragraph, Switzerland and Taiwan), provided that
the total amount of contracts entered into under this paragraph
shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,000,000.
Quotations shall be compared and evaluated in accordance with the
Guidelines and no supplier shall be asked or allowed to change the
substance or price of the quotation after it has been made.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Barik of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its -review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 30 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  4i      day of        198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


