LOAN NUMBER 1767 UNI
Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FEDERAL MORTGAGE BANK OF NIGERIA
and
BAUCHI STATE DEVELOPMENT BOARD
Dated                                1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1767 UNI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated (7                  /        , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIO AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and FEDERAL MORTGAGE BANK OF NIGERIA (hereinafter
called FMBN) and BAUCHI STATE DEVELOPMENT BOARD (hereinafter
called BSDB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen
million eight hundred thousand dollars ($17,800,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that FMBN and BSDB agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement the proceeds of
the Loan are to be relent by the Borrower to FMBN and FMBN will in
turn by the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement relend an amount
equivalent to $4,450,200 out of such proceeds to BSDB, on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS FMBN and BSDB, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have each
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Efinitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) FMBN a.id BSDB shall carry out their Parts
of the Project described in Schedule 2 co the Loan Agreement with


﻿due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, architectural, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction on its obligations
under paragraph (a) above, FMBN shall provide in its budgets for
the Project amounts presently estimated by the Bank and FMBN to be
N4,880,600 in the aggregate; and shall in order to fulfill its
obligations under this paragraph provide not less than: (i)
N110,400 in 1979; (ii) N437,100 in 1980; (iii) N2,386,600 in
1981; and (iv) N1,946,500 in 1982.
Section 2.02. In order to assist in carrying out their Parts
of the the Project, FMBN and BSDB shall employ consultants and
technical assistants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment (including terms of reference) shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. In order to assist FMBN in carrying out its
Parts of the Project and in supervising the activities of FMBN's
Bauchi branch, FMBN shall continue to maintain the Project
Development Department established by FMBN as of the date of
this Agreement in a form and with staffing and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank. PDD shall be headed by a Manager and
shall include among its senior staff a senior accountant and a
housing and infrastructure expert who shall all be internationally
recruited and shall have qualifications and experience and be
employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.05. In order to assist BSDB in carrying out its
Parts of the Project, BSDB shall establish and thereafter maintain
a Project Unit in a form and with staffing and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank. The Project Unit shall be headed by a
Project Manager and shall have other senior staff consisting of a
civil engineer, architect planner, a senior accountant and an
expert in building materials and construction techniques.
Section 2.06. (a) FMBN and ESDB undertake to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods


﻿-3-
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to them
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by FMBN and BSDB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, FMBN and BSDB
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to them to be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 2.07. (a) FMBN and BSDB shall each as appropriate
furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for their Parts of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) FMBN and BSDB: (i) shall each maintain records and
procedure adequate to record and monitor the progress of their
Parts of the Project (including the cost and the benefits to be
derived therefrom), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in said
Parts of the Project; (ii) shall each enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall each furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning their Parts of the Project, the cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom , the expendi-
ture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between FM4BN and the
Bank or BSDB and the Bank, FMBN and BSDB shall each prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of their Parts of the Project, the cost and the benefits
derived or to be derived therefrom, the performance by FMBN, BSDB
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-4-
(d) FMBN and BSDB shall each enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of FMBN and BSDB and any rele-
vant records and documents.
Section 2.08. (a) FMBN shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan
lent to it, relend to BSDB an amount equivalent in Naira to
$4,450,200 under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between FMBN and BSDB, under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) The level of service charges payable by recipients of
loans made by FMBN under the Project shall be reviewed annually by
FMBN and the Bank and adjusted if necessary.
Section 2.09. FMBN and BSDB shall duly perform all their
respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FMBN and BSDB shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the said Subsidiary
Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.10. (a) FMBN and BSDB shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of their obligations under this
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) FMBN and BSDB shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by FMBN and BSDB of their obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Section 2.11. BSDB shall promptly (i) furnish the Bank with
the report of the studies to be carried out under Part B (8) of
the Project as soon as these have been completed by the consul-
tants, (ii) discuss with the Bank the recommendations of the
report, and (iii) carry out such of the recommendations as shall
be agreed between BSDB and the Bank.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FMBN and BSDB
Section 3.01. FMBN and BSDB shall each at all times carry out
its operations, manage its affairs, and its future expansion and
maintain its financial position in accordance with appropriate
administrative and financial and, in the case of BSDB, engineering
and, in the case of FMBN, banking practices. FMBN and BSDB shall
carry out these obligations under experienced and competent
management assisted by qualified and competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. FMBN and BSDB shall each take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. BSDB shall operate and maintain its plant,
equipment and property and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices.
Section 3.04. FMBN and BSDB shall each take all action
necessary to maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business and
operations.
Section 3.05. FMBN and BSDB shall not sell, lease, transfer
or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets required
for the efficient conduct of its business and operations.
Section 3.06. BSDB shall ensure that detailed engineering and
designs for all construction works under its Parts of the Project
shall be prepared and completed not later than December 31, 1979
in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.07. BSDB shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out its Parts of the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to its Parts of the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.08. BSDB agrees that all plots included in the
Project shall be selected and allocated in accordance with the
procedures described in the Schedule to the Bauchi State
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. FMBN and BSDB shall each maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition and shall each in particular keep separate and identi-
fiable accounts for PDD, the Project Unit and FMBN's Bauchi
Branch.
Section 4.02. FMBN and BSDB shall each. (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) including those for PDD, the
Project Unit and FMBN's Bauchi Branch for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the said financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the said accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. FMBN shall make arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank for the administration of a cost recovery system for the
Project in accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
,effective.


﻿- 7 -
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of FMBN and BSDB thereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify FMBN and BSDB
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For FMBN:
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
P.O. Box 2078
11 Breadfruit Street
Lagos, Nigeria


﻿-8-
Cable address:
HOMES
Lagos
For BSDB:
Bauchi State Development Board
P.M.B. 0086
Bauchi,
Nigeria
Telex:
83263 (NG)
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of FMBN may be taken or executed by
the Chairman of FMBN's Board of Directors or such other person or
persons as the Board of FMBN shall designate in writing, and
FMBN shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the autho-
rity and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BSDB may be taken or executed by
the Chairman of BSDB or such other person or persons as BSDB shall
designate in writing, and BSDB shall furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in %k-


﻿-9-
as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
FEDERAL MORTGAGE BANK OF NIGERIA
Authorized Representative
BAUCHI STATE DEVELOPMENT BOARD
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Civil and building works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more and equipment, materials and vehicles estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, BSDB shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. BSDB shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for civil works subject to international competitive
bidding shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to BSDB of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 11 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods subject to international com-
petitive bidding procedures, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Nigeria if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of BSDB and the Bank that the manufac-
turing cost of such goods includes a value added in
Nigeria equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Nigeria.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves- excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 12 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil and building works estimated to cost
less than $1,000,000 equivalent shall be let after competitive
bidding based on local advertising in accordance with the Bor-
rower's procurement procedures.
2.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more but less than $100,000 shall be
let after competitive bidding based on local advertising in
accordance with the Borrower's procurement procedures.
3.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent shall be let on the basis of nego-
tiated contracts after the solicitation of quotations from at
least three suppliers.
4.   Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of not more
than $500,000 may be let to Bauchi State Water Board and to
National Electric Power Authority for electricity or water supply
works on the basis of negotiated contracts after the receipt of
detailed cost estimates from the said Board or Authority for
scrutiny by BSDB showing that the Board and Authority will employ
the most economic and efficient means to execute the works con-
cerned.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. BSDB shall, before qualifi-
cation is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
cedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequali-
fied bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic pre-
ference under Parts B and C above and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such


﻿- 13 -
eligibility shall be furnished by BSDB to the Bank for its com-
ments before the applicants are notified of BSDB's decision, and
BSDB shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifica-
tions in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil and building works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and for
equipment, materials and goods estimated to cost $50,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, BSDB shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated,
BSDB shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform BSDB and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall
not, without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, BSDB shall furnish to the Bank, promptly


﻿- 14 -
after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform BSDB and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, BSDB shall inform the Bank of
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform BSDB and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Recovery of Investment Costs
Part A:   On-site Infrastructure
(1) The cost recovery system for sites and services and
infill areas shall be administered in consultation with
the Bank by FMBN's Bauchi branch and that for the
upgrading area by the Bauchi Local Government Authority.
All payments, including those collected by the Bauchi
Local Government Authority in respect of the upgrading
area, shall be made to FMBN's Bauchi branch.
(2) The costs to be recovered shall include:
(a) on-site plot development costs, including contin-
gencies, engineering, construction supervision and
interest during construction;
(b) compensation costs for displaced residents or
owners in the Project Area;
(c) land costs at not more than N2,000 per hectare;
and
(d) mortgage service charges not to be less than 3 per
cent per annum of the total loan amount to each
beneficiary to cover loan disbursement and pro-
cessing costs, overhead and default provisions.
As a measure of price differentiation holders of plot A types
without frontage to service lanes shall not be required to pay the
mortgage service charges referred to in (d) above.
(3) Development costs per plot shall be established by:
(a) dividing the total on-site development costs
for sites and services and infill areas (excluding
costs mentioned in paragraph (5) below) by the net
residential area to obtain the unit cost per square
meter; and
(b) by multiplying the unit cost per square meter by
the size of the plot.


﻿- 16 -
(4) Plot size in the sites and services and infill areas
will be approximately 200 m2, 270 m2 and 375 m2 for
types A, B and C plot types respectively.
(5) Per plot costs of any of the following items of expendi-
ture, namely, sanitation, foul drainage, site works and
compensation shall be determined by dividing the total
costs of that item by the number of plots for the sites
and services or, as the case may be, the infill area.
(6) The total plot development costs for any plot in the
sites and services or infill area shall consist of the
per plot costs, determined in accordance with (4) above,
of all the items of expenditures relating to that plot
and the cost of land included in such plot valued at not
more than N2,000 per hectare.
(7) To determine the total plot development costs for any
plot in the upgrading area the total costs of all items
of expenditure provided for the upgrading area shall be
divided by the number of plots in that area.
(8) In the sites and services area the following dif-
ferential pricing system shall be applied:
(a) a recipient of a plot A type with frontage shall
be charged the total plot development costs for
that plot;
(b) a recipient of a plot A type without frontage
shall be charged 25% of the total plot development
costs for that plot;
(c) a recipient of a plot B type shall be charged the
total plot development costs for that plot plus an
amount equal to 25% of the balance of charges
to be recovered for all plot A types without
frontage divided by the number of all plot B types;
and
(d) a recipient of a plot C type shall be charged the
total plot development costs for that plot plus an
amount equal to 75% of the balance of charges to be
recovered for all plot A types without frontage
divided by the number of all plot C types.


﻿- 17 -
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(i) the term "frontage" means frontage to service
lanes; and
(ii) the term "the balance of charges to be recovered
for all plot A types" means that portion of the
total plot development costs for all type A plots
without frontage amounting to 75% of such costs
which will not be charged to recipients of such
plots but are to be passed on in the ratio of 1:3
to recipients of types B and C plots.
Part B:   Off-site Infrastructure
These costs, with the exception of those relating to water
supply and electricity, shall be met through budgetary provisions
of Bauchi State.
Part C:   Loans
(1) Persons allocated plots shall, subject to the provisions
of paragraph (4) below, be eligible to receive loans for
the purchase of building materials, and to cover plot
development costs.
(2) Persons allocated new plots shall be entitled to housing
construction loans estimated on the basis of 1978 base
price levels to average N1,100 with respect to type A
plots and N1,350 with respect to type B and C plots,
these amounts to be adjusted for inflation in agreement
with the Bank..
(3) Residents in the upgrading area shall, subject to the
provisions of paragraph (4) below, be eligible to
receive loans. Each household with a monthly income of
between N85 and N141 shall be eligible for a home
improvement loan estimated to average N1,000 and a
household with a monthly income of between N65 and
N85 shall be eligible for a home improvement loan
estimated to average N500. Incomes and loan amounts
are at 1978 base price levels and are to be adjusted for
inflation in agreement with the Bank.


﻿- 18 -
(4) An applicant selected for allocation of a plot and
desiring a loan from FMBN shall be required promptly
after such selection to open an interest bearing savings
account with FMBN's Bauchi branch and to deposit therein
amounts equal to the monthly mortgage and service
charges payable in ten equal monthly installments after
the selection or in accordance with an alternative
deposit schedule agreed between the applicant and FMBN's
Bauchi branch. The amounts so deposited shall, without
prejudice to any rights of the applicant to such
deposit, constitute a downpayment and entitlement for
the loan. The remainder of the loan shall be repaid over
a period not exceeding 15 years at an interest rate of 6
per cent per annum plus mortgage service charges not
to be less than three per cent (3%) per annum of
the total loan amount to each beneficiary to cover
loan disbursement and processing costs, overhead
and default provisions.
(5) All loans shall be repaid to FMBN's Bauchi* branch and
the Bauchi Local Government shall be responsible for the
collection of development charges in the upgrading
areas.
(6) An applicant shall not be eligible to draw down his loan
until he has made in full the downpayment required under
(4) above.
Part D:   Infrastructure Cost for Industrial Estate
The development cost of the small-scale industry site
shall be recovered through the sale of serviced plots within
the site.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  J1i   1day of        g, 19?2.
FOR SECRETARY


