LOAN NUMBER 1767 UNI
Bauchi State Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BAUCHI STATE OF NIGERIA
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1767 UNI
BAUCHI STATE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  171               /c         , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIO AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BAUCHI STATE OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called
Bauchi State).
WHEREAS (A) by Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million
eight hundred thousand dollars ($17,800,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that Bauchi State agrees to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth; and
(B)  by two subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
firstly between the Borrower and Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
(hereinafter called FMBN) and secondly between FMBN and Bauchi
State Development Board (hereinafter called BSDB) the proceeds of
the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made
available by the Borrower to FMBN which will in turn make said
proceeds available to BSDB on the terms and conditions therein set
forth;
WHEREAS Bauchi State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Bauchi State shall cause the Bauchi
and Gombe Local Governments to assist BSDB and FMBN in carrying


﻿-2-
out those parts of the Project which come under the jurisdiction
of the Governments, and shall provide, or cause to be proviced to
the said Governments, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Bauchi State shall cause BSDB to carry out BSDB's Parts
of the Project and to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, architectural, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(c) Bauchi State and the Bank shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that
end, Bauchi State and the Bank shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance
of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the perfor-
mance by BSDB of its obligations under the Project Agreement and
the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the management, structure,
administration, operations, resources and expenditures of BSDB and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(d) Bauchi State shall establish and thereafter maintain a
special account for the Project and shall pay into such account
the funds to be provided under paragraph (e) below.
(e) Bauchi State shall provide in its budgets, and pay to
BSDB at least one month in advance, monthly contributions for
the Project based on BSDB's annual budget approved by Bauchi State
and presently estimated by Bauchi State and the Bank to amount in
the aggregate to about N7,321,000 during the period 1979 through
1982 and shall in order to fulfill its obligations under this
paragraph provide not less than (i) N1,053,700 in 1979, (ii)
N2,166,500 in 1980, (iii) N2,720,700 in 1981 and (iv) Nl,380,100
in 1982.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
Bauchi State shall cause all goods and services financed out


﻿- 3 -
of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the
Project until its completion.
Section 2.04. Bauchi State shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment relating to the Project and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.05. Bauchi State shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomilishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by Bauchi State of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Bauchi State shall ensure that all plots
included in the Project shall be selected and allocated in accor-
dance with the procedures desr-ibed in the Schedule to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of Bauchi State thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify Bauchi State thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-4-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction qnd Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Bauchi State:
Permanent Secretary for Ministry of
Finance and Economic Development
Bauchi State
P.M.B. 61
Bauchi,
Nigeria
Cable address:                       Telex:
SECFIN                              83263 (NG)
Bauchi
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Bauchi State may be taken or executed by
the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development or such other person or persons as Bauchi State shall
designate in writing, and Bauchi State shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.


﻿- 5 -
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
o1 M as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
BAUCHI STATE OF NIGERIA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE
Plot Allocation
1.   Information concerning availability of plots, terms of
occupancy and obligations of plot holders shall be disseminated
through mass media and other appropriate means by the Bauchi Local
Government.
2.   Residents of areas included in the Project as well as other
areas in Bauchi town shall furnish applications to a committee
appointed by Bauchi State, according to procedures established and
made public by the committee.
3.   (a) To be eligible for new plots in the sites and services
and infill areas, an applicant must:
(i) have an average monthly household income between
N65 and N84 for plot A types without frontage
to service lanes and between N85 and N141 for
all other plot types in 1978 base price levels,
to be adjusted for inflation in agreement with the
Bank;
(ii) .have resided in Bauchi town for at least one year
before the date of application; and
(iii) not own a house anywhere in Bauchi town at the time
of application.
(b) Priority shall be given to residents displaced by
upgrading operations under the Project.
4.   The criteria set out in paragraph 3 above may be modified as
deemed appropriate in consultation with the Bank.
5.   Plots shall be allocated through a public lottery system,
stratified according to income and according to different plot
options to applicants who have been selected in accordance with
the criteria set out in paragraph 3.
6.   A committee appointed by Bauchi State and comprising repre-
sentatives of the Bauchi Local Government, BSDB, FMBN's Bauchi
branch and two representatives of Bauchi State shall be respon-
sible for the operation of the public lottery system and the final
selection of plotholders.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /   k   day of 2L, 192.
FOR SECRETARY


