                                            Document of
                                         The World Bank




                                                                Report No: ICR00002755



                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (IDA-43140)



                                              ON A

                                            CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10 MILLION
                                 (US$ 15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                             TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                                             FOR A

                             COTTON SECTOR RECOVERY PROJECT



                                        September 25, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rate Effective August 21, 2013)

                              Currency Unit = Somoni
                      US$ 1.00 = 4.7665 Tajikistan Somoni (TJS)

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 – December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB       Asian Development Bank
AIB       Agroinvestbank
CSRP      Cotton Sector Recovery Project
DAT       Debt analysis team
DF        Dehkan Farm
DFID      Department for Foreign International Development
DLC       District Land Committee
DRA       Debt restructuring agency
FSP       Farmer Support Program
FPA       Final Project Assessment
IC        Independent Commission
JDC       Jamoat Development Council
JPIU      Joint Project Implementation Unit
KI        Kredit Invest
LRCSSAP   Land Registration and Cadaster System for Sustainable Agriculture Project
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MoA       Ministry of Agriculture
MoF       Ministry of Finance
NBT       National Bank of Tajikistan
NGO       Non-governmental organization
PFI       Participating Financial Institution
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RRS       Raions of Republic Subordination
SCLRM     State Committee for Land Resources and Management
SCSSP     Sustainable Cotton Sub-Sector Project (Asian Development Bank)
SIDA      Swedish International Development Association
SMP       Staff Monitored Program
TIC       Training and Information Center
TSBLSS    Tojiksodirotbank

            Acting Vice President:          Laura Tuck
            Country Director:               Saroj Kumar Jha
            Sector Manager:                 Dina Umali-Deininger
            Project/ICR Team Leader:        Bobojon Yatimov
            ICR Author:                     Malathi Jayawickrama

                                           ii
                                                                      TAJIKISTAN

                                            COTTON SECTOR RECOVERY PROJECT



                                                                       CONTENTS




1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ....................................................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................................................4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ..............................................................................................................................8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...........................................................................................20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .......................................................................................21
6. Lessons Learned..........................................................................................................................................23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.............................................43
MAP ...................................................................................................................................................................48

ANNEXES

Annex 1.         Project Costs and Financing............................................................................................................ 25
Annex 2.         Outputs by Component ................................................................................................................... 26
Annex 3.         Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................................................... 31
Annex 4.         Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............................................. 39
Annex 5.         Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................................................. 41
Annex 6.         Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .................................................................................... 42
Annex 7.         Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................................................... 43
Annex 8.         Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ......................................................... 46
Annex 9.         List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................................................ 47




                                                                                iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                                             Cotton Sector Recovery
Country:                      Tajikistan                       Project Name:
                                                                                             Project
Project ID:                   P098889                          L/C/TF Number(s):             IDA-43140
ICR Date:                     10/07/2013                       ICR Type:                     Core ICR
                                                                                             REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:           SIL                              Borrower:
                                                                                             TAJIKISTAN
Original Total Commitment: XDR 10.00M                          Disbursed Amount:             XDR 9.45M
Revised Amount:               XDR 9.45M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Joint Project Implementation Unit, Office of the President
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                                      Revised / Actual
        Process                   Date                   Process               Original Date
                                                                                                          Date(s)
Concept Review:                03/23/2006        Effectiveness:                 09/28/2007                  09/28/2007
Appraisal:                     02/08/2007        Restructuring(s):                                          02/09/2010
Approval:                      05/30/2007        Mid-term Review:               04/18/2011                  04/25/2011
                                                 Closing:                       03/31/2013                  03/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                          Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
            Bank                      Ratings                 Borrower                                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory              Government:                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                     Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                                      Satisfactory
                                                     Agency/Agencies:
                                                     Overall Borrower
Overall Bank Performance: Satisfactory                                                       Moderately Satisfactory
                                                     Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
                                                        QAG Assessments (if
Implementation Performance           Indicators                                                         Rating
                                                               any)
 Potential Problem Project at any
                                  No                           Quality at Entry (QEA):   None
time (Yes/No):
                                                              iv
 Problem Project at any time                                   Quality of Supervision
                                    Yes                                                      None
(Yes/No):                                                      (QSA):
DO rating before
                                    Moderately Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                                  Original                    Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                                2                          2
Agro-industry, marketing, and trade                                               52                          52
Central government administration                                                 34                          34
Crops                                                                              7                          7
Other social services                                                              5                          5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other rural development                                                                 33                     33
Rural markets                                                                           17                     17
Rural policies and institutions                                                         33                     33
Rural services and infrastructure                                                       17                     17

E. Bank Staff
           Positions                                  At ICR                                    At Approval
Vice President:                     Laura Tuck                                 Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:                   Saroj Kumar Jha                            Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:                     Dina Umali-Deininger                       Juergen Voegele
Project Team Leader:                Bobojon Yatimov                            Bekzod Shamsiev
ICR Team Leader:                    Bobojon Yatimov
ICR Primary Author:                 Malathi S. Jayawickrama


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve the livelihood of cotton farmers and create the conditions for sustainable growth of cotton
production in selected, low income areas of Tajikistan, through debt resolution, an improved policy
environment, and increased cotton output and profitability.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To benefit cotton farmers and create the conditions for sustainable growth of cotton production in low income
areas of Tajikistan through an improved policy environment and better finance.



                                                               v
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                       Original Target        Formally        Actual Value Achieved
     Indicator            Baseline Value                Values (from       Revised Target        at Completion or
                                                    approval documents)         Values             Target Years
                  Policy measures conducive to producer choice rather than public coercion, and competitive markets
Indicator 1 :
                  for buying and processing cotton.
Value             Heavy intervention in cotton                            High level of
                                                   None (revised                             High level of
quantitative or   production, marketing,                                  competition is in
                                                   indicator)                                competition is in place
Qualitative)      production decisions                                    place
Date achieved     05/31/2007                       05/31/2007             02/09/2010         03/31/2013
Comments
                  The Project achieved elimination of export licenses, writing off farmers' debts, elimination of direct
(incl. %
                  intervention by local authoritieis, freedom to farm and high level of competition
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     20,000 farmers receiving at least 80% of the world market price
Value
                                                    None (revised
quantitative or   3000                                                      20,000              22,000-25,000
                                                    indicator)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/31/2007                        05/31/2007              02/09/2010          03/31/2013
Comments
                  Two methods of calculation showed 22,000 and about 25,000 farmers achieving prices greater than
(incl. %
                  80% of the world market price.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     75% of cotton output sold at 80% of comparable world market levels
Value
quantitative or   25%                               None revised indicator) 75%                 95.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/31/2007                        05/31/2007              02/09/2010          03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of cotton farmers with access to the newly-established revolving fund
Value
                                                    None (revised
quantitative or   0                                                         2,200               2,300
                                                    indicator)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/31/2007                        05/31/2007              02/09/2010          03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                       Original Target                           Actual Value Achieved
                                                                             Formally Revised
     Indicator            Baseline Value                Values (from                               at Completion or
                                                                               Target Values
                                                    approval documents)                              Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Policy Advisor in place, collaborating actively with staff of President’s Office
Value
                                                    None (revised           Policy Advisor in
(quantitative     No Policy Advisor                                                           Policy Advisor in place
                                                    indicator)              place
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/31/2007                      05/31/2007               02/09/2010        03/31/2013
Comments          The International Policy Advisor was hired and actively and successfully worked with members of

                                                          vi
(incl. %          the President's Office, members of working group and donors during 3 years.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Annual analysis of the impact of policy reform and other project activity
Value
                                                   None (revised            Third Policy      Three annual analyses
(quantitative     No analysis
                                                   indicator)               Analysis produced were achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/31/2007                       05/31/2007               02/09/2010          03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target 100% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of Policy briefs prepared and distributed
Value
                                                   None (revised
(quantitative     No Policy Briefs                                          10 Policy Briefs    15 Policy Briefs
                                                   indicator)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/31/2007                       05/31/2007               02/09/2010          03/31/2013
Comments
                  For three years, the International Policy Consultant has prepared and distributed 15 policy briefs,
(incl. %
                  which were sent to the Government, the Ministries and Departments. Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of Policy workshops and seminars conducted
Value
                                                   None (revised
(quantitative     No Workshops                                              10 seminars         10 workshops/seminars
                                                   indicator)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/31/2007                       05/31/2007               02/09/2010          03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target 100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Improved access to finance through the establishment of a revolving credit line for Post-Harvest
Indicator 5 :
                  finance for cotton in selected project area
Value
                                                   None (revised            Revolving Fund
(quantitative     No Revolving Fund                                                             Revolving Fund working
                                                   indicator)               working
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/31/2007                       05/31/2007               02/09/2010          03/31/2013
Comments
                  Both banks used own funds to finance cotton and other agricultural products. Indicator is 100%
(incl. %
                  achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Number of Public Awareness Programs in Khatlon
Value
                                                   None (revised            6 campaigns over 7 campaigns conducted
(quantitative     No Program
                                                   indicator)               three years.     over three years.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/31/2007                      05/31/2007             02/09/2010        03/31/2013
Comments          Five campaigns were carried out by the 19 NGOs during the 6 months in 2009 and 2010; one
(incl. %          campaign was held by nine NGOs during 2011-2012; and another one campaign was held by four
achievement)      NGOs during 2012-2013. Target 117% achieved.
Indicator 7 :     Number of rural people, including women, benefiting from public awareness programs
Value
                                                   None (revised                                6,800 including 2,145
(quantitative     0                                                         15,000
                                                   indicator)                                   women
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/31/2007                        05/31/2007             02/09/2010         03/31/2013
Comments          Although this indicator as reported here is only 45% achieved, data show that public awareness
(incl. %          programs and community outreach programs covered some of the same beneficiaries and hence it is

                                                          vii
achievement)       concluded that this target's achievement was greater than 45%.
                   4.     Number of Trainers trained to implement community outreach and farmer extension
Indicator 8 :
                   programs in project districts
Value
                                                    None (revised
(quantitative      0                                                         80               80
                                                    indicator)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/31/2007                        05/31/2007            02/09/2010          03/31/2013
Comments           According to the submitted data, the eight NGOs - "Amon," "Bakht", "Bonuvoni Khatlon",
(incl. %           "Bonuvoni fardo", "Mehrangez", "MDRS Khatlon Region", "Nazm" and "Furughi Marifat" in 2011-
achievement)       2012 had trained 80 trainers, indicating a 100% achievement of this target.
Indicator 9 :      Number of rural people, including women, benefiting from community outreach programs
Value
                                                    None (revised
(quantitative      0                                                         13,000           10,120
                                                    indicator)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/31/2007                      05/31/2007            02/09/2010           03/31/2013
Comments           The actual number of rural people, including women who benefited from community outreach
(incl. %           programs is 10,120 in 2011-2012. The completion percentage for this indicator is 77%. (See note on
achievement)       Indicator 7 above.)
Indicator 10 :     Number of rural people, including women, benefiting from Farmer Extension programs
Value
                                                    None (revised
(quantitative      0                                                         4,000            5,251
                                                    indicator)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/31/2007                       05/31/2007               02/09/2010       03/31/2013
Comments
                   The number of rural residents including women who benefited from the Farmer Extension program
(incl. %
                   was 5251 in 2012-2013. The percentage of achievement is 131%.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

             Date ISR                                                                        Actual Disbursements
 No.                                     DO                                 IP
             Archived                                                                           (USD millions)
   1        12/19/2007              Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                     0.10
   2        06/23/2008              Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                     0.19
   3        03/29/2009             Unsatisfactory                Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.55
   4        02/20/2010          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory               1.46
   5        12/30/2010          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              11.76
   6        06/25/2011              Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory              11.76
   7        12/20/2011              Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                    13.32
   8        06/20/2012              Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                    13.66
   9        12/26/2012          Moderately Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    14.43
  10        03/31/2013          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              14.51




                                                          viii
H. Restructuring (if any)

                                         ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed
  Restructuring      Board Approved      Restructuring                           Reason for Restructuring & Key
                                                         at Restructuring
     Date(s)          PDO Change                                                         Changes Made
                                          DO       IP    in USD millions
                                                                              (a) discontinue non-performing project
                                                                              activities and include a new activity that
                                                                              responded to new constraints and
                                                                              opportunities for the cotton sector,
     02/09/2010              Y             U       MU             1.46        which were not present during project
                                                                              design; (b) modify the PDO; (c) modify
                                                                              the outcome indicators and adjust
                                                                              outcome targets; and (d) to broaden the
                                                                              regional coverage of the project.


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving body) enter ratings
below:
                                                                              Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                                    Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                                              Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                                         Satisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile




                                                         ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

1.      Tajikistan, the poorest member of the former USSR began its economic recovery in
1998, founded on improved political and economic stability, enhanced by external factors
such as favorable cotton and aluminum prices, strong regional economic growth (especially in
Russia), a sizeable flow of remittance income, and greater support from the international
community. These factors contributed to real GDP growth rates of 8-10% per year over 2003-07
and a significant reduction in poverty. Despite this progress, Tajikistan was a deeply poor
country, with 64% of the population below the poverty line ($2.15/day PPP) and a GDP per
capita of US$310 in 2004. Sustaining this growth and further reducing poverty remained major
challenges.

2.     The cotton subsector was critical to both the agricultural sector and the national
economy. Cotton accounted for 60% of agricultural output, supported 75% of the rural
population, and used 45% of irrigated arable land. At the national level it had been an important
source of both export earnings (15%) and tax revenue. Tajikistan was the world’s fourth largest
exporter of cotton, and there was a strong international demand for its high quality output.

3.      Agriculture sector growth had made a strong contribution to post-war economic
recovery; however, production had fallen since then and cotton yields (below 2 tons/ha)
remained low compared to international standards, despite observed yield increases.
Agriculture growth accounted for about one-third of overall economic growth from 1998 to 2004.
Sector output had risen by 65% in real terms during this period and had returned to levels
observed prior to independence in 1990. Cotton production had grown by almost 50% from 1998
to 2004, driven by increases in yields and a modest increase in area. However, production had
fallen since, due to adverse climatic conditions (in 2005) and the deepening effects of the cotton
debt crisis since 2006. Recent analysis had shown that the previously observed growth was not
sustainable, as it had been driven mostly by external factors, rather than by substantive changes
to resources, incentives and the behavior of factor and commodity markets.

4.     Government intervention and monopsony control of processing, exports, input
supply and credit were continuing to distort markets and reduce farmer incentives to
invest and raise productivity. Overdue debt, which was paralyzing the private sector, was
the most visible aspect of this crisis. Cotton producers had accumulated a massive debt
estimated by government at about US$400 million. The government, aware of the implications,
had set debt resolution as the top priority for the sector and requested the Bank’s assistance to
resolve the crisis and address relevant policy issues.

5.      The Bank and other donors were united in their desire to remove the policy
distortions that had led to the cotton crisis, and had initiated a number of complementary
projects. These included: separate Asian Development Bank’s (ADB) projects to strengthen
cotton marketing through the modernization of grading systems and certification procedures, and
the introduction of warehouse receipts, and a project to support farm-level debt restructuring in



                                                1
selected districts; an EU extension project; a Department for Foreign International Development
(DFID) project to facilitate debt resolution through arbitration; and a Swedish International
Development Association (SIDA) project to reform seed regulation. The Bank had an ongoing
project on Land Registration and Cadastre System for Sustainable Agriculture (LRCSSAP) that
was providing individual farmers with clear land use rights. The Bank had also worked on case
studies of the debt of 14 cotton farms.

6.      The Bank knew that this would be a high-risk operation, but one that would also
provide high returns if it remained engaged along with other donors to pursue the
government to undertake difficult reforms in the cotton sector. These critical policy reforms,
if successfully undertaken, would also benefit overall agriculture and contribute to reducing rural
poverty. The Bank responded to the government’s request with a pilot study to analyze the
modalities for debt resolution, and assistance to prepare a “Road Map” that specified the reforms
needed to effect sustainable cotton sector recovery, and a timeframe for implementing these
reforms. An official decree recognizing the conditions specified in this Road Map further
indicated GoT’s commitment to cotton sector recovery. The Cotton Sector Recovery Project
(CSRP) also complemented the ongoing LRCSSAP in aiming to strengthen capacity of
producers to make full use of land rights through policy reform, higher producer prices, and
better farm management. CSRP was approved on May 30, 2007 and became effective on
September 28, 2007.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.      The PDO was to improve the livelihood of cotton farmers and create the conditions for
sustainable growth of cotton production in selected, low income areas of Tajikistan, through:
debt resolution, an improved policy environment, and increased cotton output and profitability.

8.      The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) were: (i) Debt resolution completed for 75% of
land under cotton production; (ii) Termination of the tied client relationship between cotton
producers and cotton investors (debt de-linkage); (iii) A policy environment conducive to
producer choice rather than public coercion, and competitive markets for buying and processing
cotton; (iv) An improved capacity for agricultural sector policy analysis and formulation (v)
Increased farmer awareness of the rights to own and use land, and to engage freely in farm input,
output and credit markets in the Khatlon region; (vi) Ginning outturn rates 10% higher than the
national average in project districts (vii) A 25% increase in cotton yields in project districts.;
(viii) A 10% increase in producer prices for raw cotton in project districts, relative to the national
average, and more timely payment for cotton sold; (ix) Wider use of improved crop husbandry
for cotton production and improved farm financial management in project districts; and (x) A
10% reduction in rural poverty in project districts.

1.3    Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

9.      The Bank’s Board approved a Level 1 restructuring of CSRP on February 9, 2010. In
November 2007, GoT had acknowledged that much of the external finance for cotton had been
obtained and secured by the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT), and collateralized with a
significant portion of the foreign exchange reserves of the NBT and NBT guarantees. This
called for direct public intervention in the debt resolution process and obviated the need for a


                                                  2
project component on debt resolution. International awareness of the government’s default on the
cotton debt also discouraged foreign investment in the cotton sector, making some activities
under Component 3 infeasible. The project was restructured to: (a) discontinue non-performing
project activities and include a new activity that responded to new constraints and opportunities
for the cotton sector, which were not present during project design; (b) modify the PDO; (c)
modify the outcome indicators and adjust outcome targets; and (d) to broaden the regional
coverage of the project.

10.    The revised PDO was to benefit cotton farmers and create the conditions for sustainable
growth of cotton production in low income areas of Tajikistan through an improved policy
environment and better access to finance.

11.     The revised Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) were: (i) Policy measures conducive to
producer choice rather than public coercion, and competitive markets for buying and processing
cotton; that is, termination of the policies that support local processing and marketing
monopsonies and restrict farmer ability to use their land freely; (ii) 20,000 farmers receiving at
least 80% of the world market price; (iii) 75% of cotton output sold at 80% of comparable world
market levels; and (iv) Number of cotton farmers with access to the newly-established revolving
fund.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries

12.     The original project was expected to benefit a rural population of about 760,000 people
living on 115,000 hectares of irrigated land in seven districts, and the people providing goods
and services to farms in these districts. Their incomes were expected to rise as a result of
increased yields, lower costs of production and better access to markets. Activities under the
restructured project were broadened to cover and benefit farmers in 18 cotton districts in Khatlon.

1.5    Original Components

13.    Component 1: Debt Resolution (US$3 million) aimed to assist with establishing a
transparent, rule-based mechanism for debt repayment as the basis for debt resolution. This
mechanism was to ensure that producer payments are commensurate with their ability to repay,
and that the viability of the current financial system is preserved. Sub-components included: (i)
the Debt Resolution Agency (US$2.4m) to manage the repayment process and to inform farmers
about debt resolution; and (ii) Debt De-Linkage (US$0.6m) to establish a Special Purpose
Vehicle (SPV) into which farmers will make payments.

14.     Component 2: Support for Policy Analysis and Reform (US$1 million) sought to
strengthen the government’s policy analysis and guide reform by appointing an international
policy adviser to work closely with counterparts in the President’s Office and the Independent
Commission. This component also included annual analysis of the impact of policy decisions and
project activity on farm productivity, farm incomes and household poverty.

15.     Component 3: Cotton Supply Chain Development (US$10.0 million) aimed to address
deficiencies associated with production, seed, processing and competition. Sub-components



                                                3
included: (i) Cotton Ginneries (US$6.0m) to promote foreign direct investment in ginneries in
selected districts, and demonstrate the impact of increased competition on producer incentives;
(ii) Cotton Seed Supply (US$1.5m) to provide sub-credits to qualified private sector agricultural
enterprises to finance modern seed processing equipment; and (iii) Farmer Support Programs
(US$2.5m) to provide technical assistance, training and information to rural population of
Khatlon oblast. Activities under Farmer Support Programs included: Regional Public Awareness;
Community Outreach; and Farmer Extension.

16.    Component 4: Project Implementation (US$0.9 million) was to facilitate project
management. A joint Project Implementation Unit (JPIU) was established by the World Bank
and the Asian Development bank (ADB) to coordinate implementation of CRSP and ADB’s
Sustainable Cotton Subsector Project, and facilitate interaction with government.

1.6    Revised Components

17.    Component 5: Post-harvest Finance (US$10.4m) was added to make funds available in
the period immediately after harvest for the purchase of cotton seed from farmers. The
subsidiary loans were to be advanced by the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) to eligible
local Tajik ginning enterprises for the purchase of seed cotton. Initially this credit line was to be
used for post-harvest cotton finance, but eventually it was to be available for all farm activities as
a means to encourage agricultural diversification. Component 1 and FDI promotion (Component
3(i) and 3(ii) were dropped). These funds were used to set up a credit line. Component 2,
Component 3(iii) and Component 4 remained the same.

1.7    Other significant changes

18.     US$2.9m, US$6m and US$1.5m were reallocated from Components 1, 3(i) and 3(ii)
respectively to the new Component 5. The original Financing Agreement of June 29, 2007 was
amended to reflect these changes (see Amendment to the Financing Agreement, February 19,
2010).

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19.     CSRP was a rational response to Tajikistan’s cotton debt crisis, and the project
became effective on time largely due to the Bank team’s intensive effort expended during
project preparation. Given the complexity of the debt resolution issue, and at the government’s
repeated requests for assistance, the Bank fielded several missions prior to approval and
effectiveness, to identify options for debt resolution. Preparation activities included Briefing
Notes to inform discussions on a framework of a joint ADB-WB proposal on farm debt
restructuring, identify the risks related to feasibility, timing, resource requirements, stakeholder
acceptance of the proposed debt restructuring process, and to minimize the negative
repercussions for the financial and banking system and rural welfare.




                                                  4
20.     CSRP incorporated key lessons in its design, from the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) 2003-05, recent sector work, and the experience of other poor countries under stress.
Based on sector work that identified cotton recovery as a pre-condition for sustainable growth,
and the greater likelihood of success of a traditional sector approach than a community-driven
approach, CRSP took on the former approach. This included lessons such as: the traditional
approach providing a stronger platform for engaging government, communities and other donors
in project design and implementation; the need for policy-oriented lending to focus on simple,
politically-feasible reforms backed by sector-specific projects, capacity building and
communication campaigns in a weak institutional environment; and the need for strong direct
links between policy analysis and lending programs, and strong government engagement in both.
CSRP’s design also incorporated the analysis from the pilot study that the Bank had conducted
on the modalities for debt resolution mentioned above.

CRSP’s outcome indicators were well-linked to the PDO, attributable and measurable; in
addition, the team identified most project risks and took mitigation measures. CRSP had a
clear objective and outcome indicators (discussed further in Section 2.3) and focused on the
poorest cotton-growing areas. One of the strongest aspects of the design was the Baseline Survey
that was intended to provide the basis for assessing the project’s impact and follow-up
monitoring (see Section 2.3). The project identified fiduciary risks and rigorously trained the
JPIU during preparation to overcome its poor capacity to efficiently handle project management.

21.     As mentioned in paragraph 6 above, the Bank knew this was a high-risk high-return
operation, but proceeded with the project. This strategy paid off in the end, and enabled the
Bank to persuade the government to undertake difficult reforms related to debt restructuring and
freeing farmers in the cotton sector.

2.2    Implementation

22.     Government’s resistance to sector reforms undermined the ability of the project to
achieve its original PDO. Despite the Bank Task Team’s intensive effort to guide policy reform
over the first 18 months, GoT remained reluctant to allow farmers to make their own production
decisions. The combination of assigning the vast majority of the country’s irrigated land for
cotton production and directed lending was the underlying cause of the cotton debt crisis, and
this policy remained over the first 2-3 years. Plans to continue funding cotton production in 2009
using the state budget resources indicated the extent to which the government was prepared to go
to maintain this policy framework. CSRP was therefore unable to make progress towards its
original PDO and required restructuring.

23.    Two months into effectiveness, the disclosure of NBT’s involvement in securing
“external” cotton debt made it impossible for CSRP to support preparation and
implementation of the debt resolution program. Component 1 experienced delays, and, as
mentioned in Section 1.3, this new information fundamentally altered the nature of the situation
and the potential options for resolution, and elevated the cotton debt to the ranks of major
macroeconomic problems, best dealt with by the macro and financial units within the Bank and
the IMF. At the end of April 2008, the IMF and the GoT agreed on the terms of a Staff
Monitored Program (SMP), centered on the conduct of a special audit of NBT. The main



                                                5
purpose of the audit was to assess weaknesses in the governance and accounting structure of
NBT. NBT’s cotton export licensing authority was also abolished. These measures helped to
make progress towards the PDO, albeit with a delay of about 12 months.

24.    International awareness of GoT’s default on cotton debt discouraged foreign
investment in the cotton and seed processing sectors, making Component 3(i) and 3(ii)
infeasible. These components were dropped and the funds reallocated to set up a credit line.

25.     CSRP was successfully restructured in January 2010 to better respond to
constraints and opportunities that were not present at the time of project design. Bank
supervision remained very proactive during this entire period.             Efforts focused on
implementation of the SMP and the government’s commitment to sector reform including efforts
to obtain freedom to farm, and assigned lower priority to the eventual mechanisms for farm debt
resolution. Several papers on cotton debt resolution and the accompanying dialogue with key
government officials were critical inputs into: the government’s decision to initiate debt
resolution, and base debt resolution on a complete write-off of farmer debts to cotton investors,
in order to allow farmers to produce and sell their cotton freely and independently. The Mid-
Term Review (MTR) on April 25, 2011 upgraded progress towards PDO achievement from MS
to S due to significant advancement.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26.     Design. The project’s M&E system was well designed. The Results Framework was
comprehensive and included relevant indicators to capture the project’s activities under each
component. During restructuring, the indicators were modified to reflect the revised PDO. The
reporting formats for each component and sub-component were based on the annual performance
targets and monitoring indicators as shown in Annex 3 of the PAD and in Annex 1 of the
Restructuring Paper. One of the strongest aspects of M&E was CSRP’s design, which included a
baseline survey in 2007/08 and follow-up surveys to monitor progress from 2008. The baseline
survey included two parts: a survey of rural households to provide the basis for assessment of the
project’s impact on rural poverty; and a farm-level survey to provide the basis for assessment of
the project’s impact on cotton production and profitability, market behavior of cotton investors
and interventions by local government. The Final Project Assessment (March 2013) was well
done, and compared information on the outcome indicators for beneficiaries and the control
groups and covered a representative sample of farmers.

27.     Implementation and Utilization. M&E reporting experienced some interruptions. In 2010,
the M&E rating was downgraded from ‘S’ to ‘MS’ as the post-harvest financing activities were
not closely monitored partly due to the resignation of the M&E specialist. However, the PMU
was able to do its’ best to monitor the activities and highlight any discrepancies such as the
violation of the requirement to directly transfer funds to farmers rather than to ginneries (Aide
Memoire, October, 2010). The team suggested that the PMU request that Commercial Banks
provide summary reports that are easier to read in addition to detailed reports. A new M&E
specialist was hired to replace the former without delay. Although the PMU was performing well
in collecting the required monitoring information, the M&E rating was maintained at ‘MS’ in
early 2011 until the M&E database was improved to facilitate up-to-date coverage of loan use in



                                                6
the future. By November 2011, M&E was upgraded to ‘S’ as good monitoring was in place,
including regular field trips to monitor the cotton season and cotton prices received by farmers.
By 2012, the M&E system made considerable progress in achieving the development of an
electronic system that allowed monitoring the PDOs and beyond. The system had evolved from
just monitoring payments and prices paid by participating ginneries to cotton farmers to the
monitoring of credit disbursement and repayment for all types of activities. The Bank team also
suggested further development to the system at Project closing.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

28.     The project was rated Environmental Category ‘B’. The Environmental Assessment
(EA) carried out in mid-2006 identified the increased use of agricultural pesticides and the
operation of ginning plants as the main environmental issues to be considered in project design
and implementation. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was developed to respond to
these issues. The design included training in agro-chemical use and pest management issues
specific to the project. CSRP maintained a ‘S’ rating for overall compliance and implementation
of the EA. All EMP activities were carried out, in particular, related to public awareness and
information dissemination on sustainable water and land use, pest management, and
environmental management at cotton ginneries. Furthermore, with the support of an NGO,
special Environment Protection Action Plans (EPAP) were developed for seven ginneries
participating in the post-harvest new credit line. The PMU has provided technical assistance for
preparing templates for conducting sub-project Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for
potential sub-projects, and training for PFIs and potential sub-borrowers.

29.     Financial Management (FM). CSRP’s financial management remained moderately
satisfactory through most of the implementation period. This was due to the FM risk before
restructuring, and some improvements but also shortcomings in implementing the updated 1C
accounting software system. The PMU regularly submitted satisfactory financial management
reports (FMRs), and internal controls and audit reports were acceptable to the Bank, although the
latter was delayed for CY2011 (but common to all projects in Tajikistan during CY2011). The
final FM supervision gave a satisfactory rating to all aspects of FM.

30.    Procurement. Procurement performance at the PMU was considered ‘MS’ in late 2010 as
temporary delays in implementing the project procurement schedule occurred due to the
resignation of the Procurement Specialist. A new staff was selected without delay. The Bank
recommended that the new staff work closely with an international procurement specialist and
the Dushanbe-Bank office-based procurement specialist to gain the appropriate level of
knowledge of the Bank’s procurement procedures. Overall, procurement has been carried out in
compliance with the Bank’s procedures. The filing system of procurement documents was
maintained satisfactorily and several post reviews of selected contracts were in order.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

31.     CSRP has done well in working closely with NGOs with an established record for
implementation of programs in rural areas. These NGOs (19) that have received technical
assistance and training under CSRP will continue to work with the farmers in terms of outreach,



                                               7
training and advice. The TICs that have been established will continue their operation, and have
already started to recover the operational costs by charging for services to farmers. The PMU
has also taken a number of measures to ensure financial sustainability and transition to self-
financing of all created TICs (see FPA, p. 71). Support to the cotton sector and to agriculture in
general will continue through the project-initiated Revolving Credit Fund, which will continue
for the next ten years. A follow-on project, the Tajikistan Agriculture Commercialization Project
(P132652), will also be located in the rural areas in Khatlon Oblast and nearby districts in the
Raions of Republican Subordination (RRS), where agricultural potential is high and agriculture
is critical for rural livelihoods. This project will seek to scale up on activities and achievements
of CSRP and other projects (i.e. the Emergency Food Security and Seed Imports Project and the
Community Development Access to Quality Seed Program).

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

32.     CSRP’s objectives were relevant at the time of appraisal and remained relevant to
the development issues being addressed throughout implementation. While the government
had previously focused on measures to achieve political and macro-economic stability, it had
begun to emphasize reforms of policies, institutions and product and factor markets that were
essential for sustainable growth. The original project responded directly to the government’s
National Development Strategy (NDS) for 2006-2015, which identified development of the
agricultural sector as a national priority, and stated that “reform of the cotton sector targeted
towards resolution of the debt crisis,” and the “formation of competitive production and
sustainable growth” are sector priorities. Government had also made a commitment in the NDS
to limit involvement of the state in private sector activity. By raising the incomes of cotton
producers, rural poverty was also expected to decrease, consistent with the goals of the national
Poverty Reduction Strategy for 2007-2009. CSRP responded directly to the first objective of the
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) to improve business opportunities in rural (and urban) areas,
including reduction of the rent extraction in cotton. Project measures to halt inappropriate
government intervention and improve policy formulation were consistent with the CPS’ quest to
improve government capacity and reduce discretionary control.

33.     CSRP’s original PDO and design, including the PDO indicators was consistent with
GoT’s desire to address the cotton debt issue. Once circumstances changed during
implementation, flexibility was shown in restructuring the project, and project activities were
adjusted to focus on increasing farmers’ independence by giving them greater autonomy over
cotton finance. CSRP, however, retained its pilot character and sought to still demonstrate
practical market-oriented solutions to achieving increased agricultural productivity and rural
income growth. Thus, the project was restructured accordingly to maintain the relevance of its
objectives, indicators and components. The Bank’s implementation assistance was responsive to
the changing needs, and CSRP remained significant to achieving country and Bank objectives.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives




                                                 8
34.     Performance against the PDO Outcome Indicators prior to Restructuring. Progress
towards achieving the PDO was downgraded from ‘S’ to Ú’ in the last ISR prior to restructuring
(see ISR#3 dated March 29, 2009). The ISR states that despite the government's ostensible
acceptance of the pathway to reform (the Resolutions 111 and 312), actual reform was minimal,
and was reflected in slow progress with land privatization, further deterioration of the cotton debt
crisis and in available farm survey evidence.

35.     As described in Section 1.3 and 2.2, the cotton debt situation had become a major source
of macroeconomic instability. The debt had continued to mount and with it the magnitude of this
risk, which was further exacerbated by the probable financial losses of the commercial banks that
were directed by the state to lend for cotton in 2008. Overall, prior to restructuring, progress
against the PDO outcome indicators was unsatisfactory as detailed below.

36.    Project ISRs report on five of the ten PDO indicators ((i), (ii), (iii), (vii) and (x) from
Section 1.2), and this ICR follows the same below.

37.     PDO Outcome Indicator 1: Debt resolution completed for 75% of land under cotton
cultivation. This target was not met. The baseline was 10,000 hectares (6/1/2007), and the target
was 180,000 hectares of irrigated land (6/1/2009). Actual achievement is recorded as 41,000
hectares (12/22/2008). The project’s design was premised on the assumption that the cotton debt
was an “internal” private debt, owed by farmers to cotton investors. As such debt resolution was
to be based on a combination of debt write-downs and partial repayment agreed between
farmers’ and investors. Lack of progress on the policy front (see Indicator #2 below) and the
forced disclosure of the NBT’s involvement in the securing external cotton debt made it
impossible for CSRP to support preparation and implementation of the debt resolution program.
This component and PDO indicator were dropped at restructuring.

38.     PDO Outcome Indicator 2: Improvement in the policy environment as reflected in
termination of the currently tied client relationship between cotton farmers and their alleged
creditors ("delinkage"). The target of announcing and implementing nation-wide delinkage was
not met. Delinking farmers from their creditors would have been an outcome of debt resolution.
The de-linkage also required: (i) Cessation of government actions that restricted the freedom of
farmers in terms of whom they contracted with; (ii) National Bank delicensing of exports
protecting investor rights; and (iii) government abolishing support to investors seizing cotton
against old debts in contravention of the rights of new financiers. The project also aimed for (iv)
farmers to be able to receive and exercise their rights to land use on a stable, guaranteed basis
without threats of their removal by local government or failure to follow planting instructions or
meet ‘unofficial’ production targets. Although (iii) was followed through on December 22, 2008
(but late for the 2008 crop), the government remained reluctant to allow farmers to make their
own production decisions (ISR #3). The government assigned the vast majority of the country's
irrigated land for cotton production with directed lending--underlying factors that caused the
cotton debt crisis, and continued to fund cotton production in 2009 using state budget resources.

39.    PDO Outcome Indicator 3: Improve policy environment as reflected by free producer
choice. This indicator was not met as described above. Results of a farm survey conducted by




                                                 9
several donors at the end of 2008 indicated that actual reforms were minimal and that policy
pronouncements had not yet been implemented.

40.     PDO Outcome Indicator 4: Increase in cotton yields in project districts relative to the
national average by a factor of 1.25. The target was not met. CSRP was based on a requirement
of minimum policy reform, and supported ongoing government actions. The two cornerstones of
the project were to support the introduction of competition in the cotton sector, and to promote
increased transparency and producer prices. If (i) to (iv) under PDO Indicator 2 above had been
met, it would have been possible to encourage competition and increase incomes. If farmers were
able to gain confidence in their means of production, they would have sought to increase yields,
invest in their assets and obtained higher prices. Without the freedom to farm, producers still
lacked the ability to reduce/withdraw their land from cotton production. International awareness
of the default and continued deterioration of the cotton debt setting also discouraged potential
FDI in processing and the industry as a means to increase competition and efficiency. Cotton
yields in 2007 and 2008 were 16.1 and 15.8 (centner/ha). Yields improved significantly after
2009 (Final Project Assessment, 2013).

41.     PDO Outcome Indicator 5: 10% reduction in rural poverty in project districts. This
target was not met. Poverty levels were expected to increase due to the 2007-08 food price crises
(ISR #3). Even in the absence of this external factor, given the issues in the cotton sector and the
inability to attract FDI and demonstrate the impact of increased competition on producer
incentives, this target was likely not met.

42.     Performance against the PDO Outcome Indicators after Restructuring. CSRP
conducted a Final Project Assessment (FPA) to review the Project’s impact on improving the
living conditions of cotton farmers in the Khatlon region. The FPA used random sampling to
cover 400 farmers in five districts—250 project beneficiaries and 150 non-beneficiaries, and
evaluated their performance before and after the project (see Annex 5 for details). Findings
pertaining to the four revised PDO Outcome indicators are presented below:1

43.    Revised PDO Outcome Indicator 1: Policy measures conducive to producer choice
rather than public coercion, and competitive markets for buying and processing cotton, i.e.
termination of the policies that support local processing and marketing monopoly and restrict
farmer ability to use their land freely.

44.     The main goal of agricultural sector reform under Component 2--Support for Policy
Analysis and Reform was to resolve the problem of cotton debt and create an enabling political
environment to provide real freedom of farming, including the freedom of choice of the
manufacturer and the development of competitive markets and cotton processing entities.
Overall, the project achieved this outcome. After 2009, considerable work was accomplished in
this area as detailed in Annex 2. CSRP facilitated writing off about US$548 million of cotton
farm debt in 2009 in order to assist reforms and advance the freedom to farm concept. The


1
 Cotton Sector Recovery Project, Final Project Assessment, Rahmat Khakulov, March 2013. Also see
Annex 2 for details on Outputs by Component.



                                                10
International Consultants (the Advisor on farmers’ debts remission and the International Policy
Advisor), the Agricultural Reforms Secretariat, members of the six working groups in key
ministries and agencies established under CSRP, and the PMU worked to achieve several outputs
that contributed to this successful outcome. Key outputs include: amendments to several laws,
including on Dehkan Farms (DFs), agricultural reforms, and restructuring of the Ministry of
Agriculture), Policy Notes, the Agricultural Reform Conference, Study Tours, Policy Workshops
and other activities to better inform farmers of their land rights and land use. These outputs,
detailed in the FPA and in Annex 2, are linked to the outcomes below.

45.     Elimination of export licenses. Upon completion of the IMF’s SMP, the export licenses
for the export of cotton were canceled by the Order of the National Bank of Tajikistan № 466,
December 19, 2008. Also, universal standards for cotton classification were introduced and
procedures for exporting cotton were simplified. Farmers also received daily information on
world cotton prices, which contributed to selling raw cotton for prices close to world prices.

46.     Writing off farmers’ debt. Several Decrees were adopted in 2009 to write off farmers
‘debts (see Annex 2 for complete list). On additional measures to support agriculture, the
following was adopted: "Indebtedness of business entities of the Republic of Tajikistan,
producing cotton, formed before January 1, 2008 from all sources of funding should be resolved
through writing off debts, debt discounting, deferral and payment terms installment, as well as
issuing long-term government securities”.

47.     Elimination of direct intervention by local authorities. In accordance with the Resolution
of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan № 111, March 5, 2007 and the Action Plan for
resolution of cotton producing farm debt in the Republic of Tajikistan for 2007-2009, intervention
of the Government authorities in farm planning, production, processing and marketing of cotton
products was prohibited. CSRP supported the implementation of the above Resolution through
training workshops, seminars and other events to inform local authorities, cotton producers,
cotton processors and public organizations on the government decisions. For example,
community outreach programs aimed to raise public awareness on the rights of rural people to
engage in agricultural activities. From 2007 to 2012, over 22,171 farmers including 6,023
women received training on legal issues, including rights to obtaining land, free use of land,
marketing and on the free choice of choosing partners for marketing and processing of raw
cotton (related to the two points below). The FPA shows no direct intervention of local
authorities in DFs’ affairs.

48.      Greater farmer knowledge on laws regarding land use rights and setting up agricultural
activities. Improvement in the regulatory framework to protect the rights of land users and the
laws adopted have had a positive impact not only on cotton, but also on the other sectors of the
rural economy and created the basis for recovery and growth of the agricultural sector. Farmers’
awareness rose sharply between 2011 and 2013 for beneficiaries and the control group. For
example, the knowledge of the 2011 Amendments to the Land Code rose from 5.6% in 2011 to
42.4% (beneficiaries) and 30.7% (control group) (FPA, p. 24-27).

49.   Freedom to Farm. The freedom of engaging in agriculture was a key policy objective.
Farmers take risks that arise as a result of their own decisions about what crops to grow, where to



                                                11
buy materials/agricultural production, to apply for a loan and where to sell the harvest. In this
regard, the FPA asked farmers a number of questions to assess the freedom to farm. One of the
major changes between 2011 and 2013 is the understanding of farmers that they can farm freely.
In the survey years, farmers were asked about whether they agree or disagree with the statement:
"In general, farmers can use the land as their choice." Farmers’ perceptions changed sharply with
respect to cotton and the choice of sources of funding. On both issues, the majority of
respondents indicated that they now make their own economic decisions (Figure 1).

Figure 1.      Farmers agreeing with "freedom to farm" questions




50.     Farms’ Management Practices. The basic policy of free farming is to provide greater
incentives to farmers to increase production and reduce costs for their own benefit. They can
also protect themselves from possible crop failure or low prices, for example, by diversifying
their farms for the production of different types of crops. The FPA examined the extent to which
farmers carry out each of these activities. Many farmers began to grow different types of
agricultural products. The share of respondents who grew a single crop dropped from 19.6% in
2011 to 12.7% in 2013, while those who grew three or more crops increased from 35.5% in 2011
to 56% in 2013.

51.     Data show that the majority of respondents sell a certain part of the harvest for all types
of crops grown (The percentage of farmers was 84% in 2011; 84.7% in 2013—control group;
and 99.6% in 2013—beneficiaries). Better management of agricultural activities with respect to
selection, combination and diversification of farmed crops contributed to higher yields in 2013 of
crops such as cotton, wheat, onions, potatoes, carrots and tomatoes. This resulted in a decrease in
the share of the harvest sold for the main crop grown in 2013 compared to previous years as
farmers diversified and reduced their dependence on the main crop.

52.     The cotton market also developed through a transparent pricing system and the awareness
of farmers growing cotton and world prices for cotton. CSRP beneficiary farmers were more
aware of world cotton prices when they handed the crop in 2010-2012, and also sold their cotton
crop at higher prices than farmers in the control group (FPA, P. 46-47).

53.     Operation Management of the farms. The freedom of farmers engaged in cotton
cultivation has improved significantly (as suggested in interviews with representatives of cotton


                                                12
ginning plants and farmers during the 2009 and 2013 surveys). CSRP has played a key role in
reducing the level of intervention of local authorities in implementing farmers' decisions. It has
also greatly improved the freedom to choose the financing source, and the extent of land for
cotton cultivation. In 2011, only about 39% and 43% of farmers interviewed indicated that they
were free to choose the financing source, and free to determine the extent of land for cotton
cultivation. These respective percentages increased to 98% and 92% for the 2013 control group
and 98% and 91% for the 2013 beneficiaries. In 2011, only 24% of farms were free to choose
cotton plants for processing. In 2013, this was 99% for the control group and the beneficiaries.
While 214 farms were forced to work with a specific plant in 2009, only four were forced to do
so in 2013. In general, writing-off the farm debt has also been a significant step forward in
developing a more diverse and sustainable cotton industry and agriculture.

54.    The FPA analyzed the reasons why farmers chose cotton-ginning plants and/or were
forced to cooperate with certain plants. In 2013, the main reason for choosing a plant was the
prompt payment for the sold crops and the nearest location of the plant, for both beneficiaries
(62%) and the control group (52%). In 2009, this was zero (Table 1).

Table 1.      Percentage of respondents who identified the reasons why they have to
choose the cotton processing enterprise

                                                               Number of respondents
          Reason to cooperate with a certain plant
                                                               2013            2009
  Willingness of investors to cooperate with this plant          2               89
  Desire of local authorities to engage with this plant          1               57
  Have debt to this plant, so working with it                    1               38
  Other (contract, no other plant, etc.)                         0               30
  Total                                                          4              214

55.     High level of competition is in place. Reviews and interviews conducted with DF-
beneficiaries and DF-control group (non-beneficiaries) showed that among the respondents 99%
of DFs mentioned they now had a free choice in selecting the ginnery. The main farmers’
criterion for selecting the ginneries for delivery and processing of raw cotton is the terms of
payment for deposited cotton; and the second criterion is the closeness/proximity of the cotton
processing plant. These factors all point to a higher level of competition among ginneries.

56.    Revised PDO Outcome Indicator 2: 20,000 farmers receiving at least 80% of the world
market price for their cotton output.

57.     This outcome was achieved. All of the steps mentioned above, including writing off
farmer debts, the elimination of direct interventions, the freedom to farm, and, more importantly,
the ability of farmers to approach any ginnery with their cotton output and the resulting
competition among ginneries to obtain this output contributed to farmers being offered a much
higher share of world cotton prices than before CSRP. As part of the activities under Producers’
Support, on a daily basis from August 2011, the PMU staff faxed information on world cotton
prices in international markets to local Hukumats, which in turn informed Jamoats, DFs, and
Associations of DFs. These prices are also posted at the entrance gate to the ginneries. This
played a role in contributing to selling raw cotton for prices close to world prices.


                                                    13
58.     The PMU completed entering data on seed cotton purchases and deliveries to
participating ginneries into the M&E system in August 2012. The final results of the 2011-2012
season cotton post-harvest financing with respect to the FPA’s random sample suggest that the
actual number of farmers who directly benefited from selling cotton to participating ginneries
and receiving at least 80% of the world market prices, was in 1654 (2010), 2806 (2011) and
roughly 800 (2012). In addition, the use of project funds for the purchase of cotton at world
prices forced ginneries to purchase cotton from DFs with their own funds also at world prices.
The FPA analyzes data from seven cotton processing plants to determine the number of farmers
from whom cotton has been purchased by processing plants at their own expense and at the
world price in 2011-2012 (Table 2).

Table 2.     Information on the purchase of cotton by the ginneries of Khatlon Region (at
their own expense)

                                 Bekhru                                 Rushdi
                                   zi     Yevon                                   S.Mukh
                                                     Isroil,   Nekruz   Khatlon            Nemat,
                                 Murod    Cotton,                                   tor,
                                                    Dzhiikul   Farhor   Cotton,             Vose
                                    ,     Yovon                                   Farhor
                                                                         Rumi
                                 Vahsh
 Total volume of cotton                   3600       5400      6000      2500     8900     4800
 purchases (ton)
                                 5000
 The volume of cotton                     1328       1379      1171      570      1149     1181
 purchase at CSRP credit (ton)
                                 1317
 The average gross sales
 receipts per 1 ton of cotton    3817     4425       3571      2008      4260     3850     4784
 (US$)
 Number of DF-beneficiaries
 who received payment through     262      226        280       458       93       314      209
 a loan
 Average purchase of cotton                6,0           5,0    2,4      6,0       3,7      5,7
 per 1 DF (ton)
                                  5,0
 The average number of DFs                 379        804      2012      321      2094      635
 sold cotton at the ginneries
                                  736
Source: CSRP M&E system

59.    The volume of cotton purchased by the ginneries with their own funds exceeded the
amount of cotton purchased at the expense of CSRP credit by about 3.8 times. This suggests that
the number of DFs who sold cotton at above 80% of the level of world prices was more than
20,000.

60.     Also, a different approach was used in determining the fulfillment of this indicator. A
survey of DFs in 5 Districts has shown that on average in 2011 and 2012, 51% and 78.3% of the
interviewed farmers sold raw cotton at a level higher than 80% of the world price respectively.

61.     Hence, it can be calculated that if in November 2012 the number of cotton producing DFs
in 18 Districts of Khatlon Region was 34,361, one can assume that the number of DFs who sold
their cotton at a level higher than 80% of the world price was over 25,000.




                                                    14
Table 3.      Number of farmers who received of 80% of equivalent international cotton
prices from participating ginneries in 2011
                                                       Total         Received at least        Received less than
  #                     Ginnery                      number of      80% of world price        80% of world price
                                                       farms        Number         %         Number         %
  1    Barakati Jomi LLC, Liomi Raion                    99            73             84%      26         16%
  2    Bekhruzi Murod LLC, Vose Raion                   262            262            100%      -         0%
  3    Yevon Cotton LLC, Yevon Raion                    226            225            100%      1         0%
  4    Zierotshokh, Farhor Raion                        551            551            100%      -         0%
  5    Isroil LLC, Dzhiikul Raion                       281            280            100%      1         0%
  6    Mukhtor and C LLC, Farhor Raion                  314            314            100%      -         0%
  7    Nekruz, Farhor Raion                             498            498            100%      -         0%
  8    Nemat, Vose Raion                                209            207            99%       2         1%
  9    Pakhta Rush. Khatlon, Rumi                        93            80             89%      13         11%
 10    Samar, Vose Raion                                244            244            100%      -         0%
 11    Safari Cotton Invest LLC, Vakhsh Raion           114            72             83%      42         17%
                         Total                         2,891          2,806           97%      85         3%
Source: based on CSRP PMU Monitoring and Evaluation System (as of 22 October 2012)


Table 4.    Volume of seed cotton purchased by participating ginneries in 2011 as
compared with the PDO of 80% of equivalent international cotton prices

                                                                     Received at least        Received less than
                                                       Total
                                                                    80% of world price        80% of world price
  #                     Ginnery                      quantity*,
                                                                   Quantity,                 Quantity
                                                        Kg                         %                        %
                                                                      Kg                       , Kg
  1    Barakati Jomi LLC, Liomi                      1,476,452     1,180,528      80%        295,924      20%
  2    Bekhruzi Murod LLC, Vose                      1,316,874     1,316,874     100%
  3    Yevon Cotton LLC, Yevon                       1,327,679     1,324,801     100%         2,878       0%
  4    Zierotshokh, Farhor                           1,251,678     1,251,678     100%
  5    Isroil LLC, Dzhiikul                          1,378,687     1,374,569     100%         4,118       0%
  6    Mukhtor and C LLC, Farhor                     1,149,372     1,149,372     100%
  7    Nekruz, Farhor                                1,171,385     1,171,385     100%
  8    Nemat, Vose                                   1,180,623     1,171,512      99%         9,111        1%
  9    Pakhta Rush. Khatlon, Rumi                     569,521       316,097       56%        253,424      44%
 10    Samar, Vose                                   1,143,874     1,143,874     100%
 11    Safari Cotton Invest, Vakhsh                  1,440,894     1,083,415      75%        357,479      25%
                                                                   12,484,10
                         Total                       13,407,039                   88%        922,934      12%
                                                                       5
Source: based on CSRP PMU Monitoring and Evaluation System (as of 22 October 2012).




                                                         15
62.     Based on these two approaches, we can assume that the actual number of farmers
receiving prices greater than 80% of the world market price amounted to over 22,000. Therefore,
it can be concluded that this indicator has been achieved.

Table 5.    Utilization of: (i) the CSRP Line in 2011; and (ii) Revolving Credit Line
Funds from 2010 for seed cotton purchases from farmers in Khatlon Oblast in 20112




                                                                                                                                        purchased from one
                                                                                                                                        Average quantity of




                                                                                                                                                              Average gross sales
                                                                                                       Farmer price as %
                                                                                 gate on the date of
                                                             MT of seed cotton
                                                             Average price per
                                          cotton purchased




                                                                                  Equi. intl. cotton
                   Ginnery name and




                                                                                  price at the farm
                                          Quantity of seed




                                                                                                                                                               receipts per one
                                                                                    delivery US$



                                                                                                          of intl. price




                                                                                                                                            seed cotton
                                                                purchased




                                                                                                                                                                  farm, US$
                                                                                                                           # of farms




                                                                                                                                             farm, MT
                       location




                                                                   US$
Mukhtor and C LLC, Farhor                     1149                 871                 799             109.0               314                 3.7               3185
Nekruz, Farhor                                1171                 855                 816             104.8               498                 2.4               2008
Zierotshokh, Farhor                           1251                 799                 828               96.5              551                 2.3               1816
Samar,Vose                                    1143                 874                 815             107.2               244                 4.7               4098
Nemat, Vose                                   1181                 844                 829             101.8               209                 5.7               4784
Bekhruzi Murod, Vose                            1317               752                 823               91.4              262                 5.0               3817
Safari Cotton Invest, Vakhsh                  1440                 697                 805               86.6              114                12.6               8715
Yevon Cotton, Yevon                           1328                 752                 811               92.7              226                 5.9               4425
Isroil, Dzhiikul                              1379                 732                 823               88.9              281                 4.9               3559
Barakati Jomi, Liomi                       1476                    705                 810               87.0               99                14.9             10101
Pakhta Rush. Khatlon, Rumi                   570                   739                 795               93.0               93                 6.1               4260
               TOTAL                      13404                    775                 814              95.2               2891                4.6             3594.0
Source: based on CSRP PMU Monitoring and Evaluation System (as of 22 October 2012).


63.    Revised PDO Outcome Indicator 3: 75% of cotton output sold at 80% of comparable
world market levels.

64.    As shown above, this outcome was achieved. In 2011, DF-beneficiaries sold 85% of their
raw cotton at 95.2% of comparable world market prices, and in 2012, this figure was 87%.

65.    Revised PDO Outcome Indicator 4: Increasing number of cotton farmers with access to
the newly established revolving fund.

66.    After a long period of crisis in the cotton sector, the restructured CSRP, under the post-
harvest finance component, financed the purchase of raw cotton at world prices and helped to
provide timely payment to farmers for the cotton supplied. This activity was highly relevant to
the moral and financial support to DFs growing cotton. As detailed above and in Annex 2,
US$10.4m of credit issued for the two banks allowed the banks to also gain confidence, and by
March 2013 they significantly increased the amount of agricultural sector lending from their own


2
    All ginneries received US$1 million except Pakhta Rush. Khatlon, Rumi who received US$ 0.4m.




                                                                            16
financial resources. Loans allocated on favorable terms to 5 cotton processing enterprises in
2010, 11 ginneries in 2011 and 2 gins in 2012 allowed the banks to gain economic benefits, pay
on time, and establish a trusting relationship with the farmers. For the farmers, the revolving
funds at the two banks created more favorable conditions in providing them with access to credit
and an increased competitive environment among banks and micro-lending organizations, which
could also promote further reductions of interest rates in the credit market. In the second stage
after the adoption of appropriate amendments, lending extended to cover other agricultural
activities in addition to cotton growing, as agreed, and overall lending became available in all
regions of the country and not just in Khatlon.

67.     The target for this indicator was 2,200 farmers. The revolving fund was established in
2011, and in 2011-2012, it was directed both to purchase cotton and to finance the production of
other crops. The revolving helped to fund the purchase of raw cotton for 945 DFs in 2011 and for
800 DFs in 2012. Another 1,500 DFs were granted loans through the revolving fund for the
development of other sectors of agriculture. Interviews with DFs’ show that in 2009, 24% of the
respondents took out a loan, but in 2013 this number increased to 42% for beneficiary DFs and
25% for the control group of non-beneficiaries. Overall, 2,300 farmers obtained access to the
newly-established fund. Therefore, the target was exceeded (FPA, p. 60).

68.    CSRP has contributed to achievements beyond those indicated in the PDO
indicators. Processing enterprises and farmers surveyed specify that in addition to prompt
payment, the project has helped to increase the cooperation between ginneries and farmers,
increase farmer knowledge of the cultivation of cotton (and other crops), improve the quality of
cotton plants not only in project areas but also in other regions, and, most importantly, farmers
now trust ginneries and deliver cotton on time. Beneficiary farmers now have greater income
(see Section 3.5 (a)). The government has also stepped back from financing the cotton sector,
which is now sustaining its support to farmers through the project-initiated Revolving Credit
Fund.

69.     Tajikistan’s cotton industry, which had suffered from inefficient investment policy
in the period from 2003-2009 that led to significant debts of DFs, a sharp decline in total
production, the area under cotton cultivation and yields, has begun its revival. Production
of cotton and other crops started to increase after agricultural reform and debt relief, and after
farmers obtained the freedom to farm any selection of agricultural products. Just in the last 3
years from 2009 to 2012 production of cotton in the country increased by 41%, the land allocated
to cotton increased by 18%, and cotton yields increased by 18%. Positive changes in the cotton
sector are even more significant in Khatlon region, which was the target region of the Project. In
2012 compared with 2009, cotton production in the region increased by 42%, the land allocated
to cotton increased by 18% in response to higher profitability of cotton, and cotton yields rose by
20%. Project activities supported the reorganization of DFs and an increase in their number.
From 2008 and 2012, the number of farmer household in Khatlon region increased from 12,108
to 43,909 DFs (FPA, p. 68-70).

3.3    Efficiency




                                                17
70.      CSRP, through its main activities that supported the resolution of cotton debt, greater
freedom to farm, agricultural policy reform and improved access to financing has enhanced the
economic efficiency of cotton farming in Tajikistan. Cotton farmers’ net cumulative cash flow
improved considerably since 2008 due to a combination of factors such as increased cotton
prices paid to farmers, lower debt and servicing costs, better payment terms and input availability
at the time of project completion. Prior to the project, the farmers could expect to receive about
US$ 109 in terms of financial returns per hectare and hope to achieve positive returns only in
March-April of the year following cotton production. At the end of CSRP, farmers already
broke even by October-November of the same year with a net income of US$ 274 per hectare.
The equivalent return measured per 1 metric ton (MT) of seed cotton output were estimated to
increase from US$51 in 2008 to about US$124 at the end of the project.

71.     This improved cotton profitability is clearly reflected in enhanced cotton yields and
production. Annual average cotton yields in the main project area of Khatlon oblast increased
from 1.6 in 2007-2008 to 2.2 MT per hectare in 2011-2012, and cotton production increased by
7%. Farmers also responded positively and increased the area under cotton from 101,000 ha in
2010 to 128,000 ha in 2012: all signs of the sector’s recovery. Economic profitability, measured
as the net margin at world cotton export parity prices and without the applicable 10% export tax
in Tajikistan, increased from US$51 in 2008 to US$188 at the end of project.

72.     The fiscal impact is discussed in Annex 3. Although the cotton debt that was written off
was a drain on public funds, these reforms are expected to benefit revenues as the sector grows.
Also, the post-harvest financing has been used to finance other types of agricultural activities
since 2012, or two years after financing cotton sector activities. As no reliable and verifiable
information on profitability was available on other activities, and due to the relatively short
period of observation, the economic analysis does not take these returns into account. Other
factors that constrained the efficiency analysis were the extreme international price volatility and
the lack of reliable cotton farm-gate price information through CSRP’s life.

3.4      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

73.     As described in Section 3.1, CSRP was relevant at the time of appraisal and its’
objectives and design remained relevant throughout implementation. Although the Project did
not make good progress towards the PDO prior to restructuring and is rated ‘U’ for this period, it
was effectively restructured, and successfully achieved its revised PDO as concluded in Section
3.2.3 CSRP was efficient. The financial returns and economic profitability at the time of the ICR
exceed those estimated in the pre-project period (2008) as detailed in Annex 3.




3
  The discrepancy between the final Implementation Status Report (ISR), which rates achievement of the PDO and
Implementation Progress as Moderately Satisfactory is due to the fact that the results of the Final survey on the Revised PDO
Indicator 2 (20,000 farmers receiving at least 80% of the world market price for their cotton output) had not yet come in.




                                                               18
74.     With respect to the weighted average for the achievement of the PDO, the project
disbursed US$1.46 million or 10% of the total project amount prior to restructuring against a ‘U’
rating (rating value of 2) in this ICR (see Data Sheet). The balance amount of US$13.05 or 90%
was disbursed until closing against an ‘S’ rating (rating value of 5) in the ICR. Therefore, overall
achievement of the PDO is (0.1 x 2) + (0.9 x 5) = 4.7 or satisfactory (ICR Guidelines, p. 43).

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

       (a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

75.      The FPA provides evidence of reduced poverty through greater access to loans from
banks and microfinance institutions and the ability to invest in farms, greater savings in cash and
gold, ownership of household accessories, and overall increased income. For example, the
average income from farming of beneficiary farmers and farmers in the control group increased
from 5327 somoni in 2011 to 6630 somoni in 2013. Income from other sources and non-farm
activities also increased significantly for CSRP beneficiaries compared to the control group.
Ownership of household accessories such as refrigerators, TVs, generators, mobile phones (that
farmers also consider as savings) also show increases from 2011 to 2013 (FPA, p. 51-53). The
FPA did not conduct a full-scale analysis of beneficiaries by gender; however, the FPA points to
the following: of the total 6,800 who benefitted from the public awareness program, 2,145 were
women. A large number of women were attracted to the trainings and other activities conducted
by NGOs and TICs. Under the third sub-component, 6023 of the 22,171 attended 972 training
courses and other project events.

       (b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

76.     CSRP contributed to building long-term capacity in many areas. The project provided
technical assistance and support for improving the legal and policy/regulatory framework for the
entire cotton sector. There were additional measures adopted for agriculture in general, as
described in Annex 2. The participating financial institutions (PFIs) were strengthened through
training. CSRP brought significant benefits not only to farmers, but also to the two main banks—
Agroinvestbank and Tojiksodirotbank as they developed through enhanced lending to agriculture.
Following revision of the CSRP Financing Guidelines starting in November 2011, both PFIs in
addition to financing the purchase of cotton from farmers, began lending to all other types of
agricultural activities.

77.     CSRP helped to strengthen NGOs and outreach and extension through the NGOs. Within
the framework of the Producers’ Support sub-component, as discussed in Annex 2, the PMU
established partnerships and collaboration with 32 Khatlon NGOs that had a good track record
and experience in training and implementation of various projects. All NGOs selected have
shown a creative attitude, which has allowed them to enrich their services through a wide variety
of workshops, training courses and other activities related to DFs’ urgent needs throughout the
country. The project also helped to establish and register as legal entities Training and
Information Centers (TICs) and provided them with equipment and demonstration plots that have
in turn strengthened the NGOs’ capacity to improve farmers’ access to information (via training
and consulting), mastering advanced technologies and entrepreneurial skills. Overall, these have
strengthened the long-term capacity of Tajikistan’s agricultural sector.


                                                19
       (c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

78.    As described in Section 3.2, CSRP’s impacts extended beyond the PDO. Positive changes
in terms of production, yields, area under cultivation and overall income of cotton farmers are
observed in many regions outside the main project region of Khatlon.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
       (Optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: moderate

79.     The institutional risk to development outcome is moderate. As described in Section
3.5(b) and in Annex 2, CSRP has built institutional capacity through training at every stage of
cotton production. It is assumed that the six sectoral working groups created by the ministries
and agencies that have made a substantial contribution to agriculture sector will continue to
operate. With project completion, the Agricultural Reform Secretariat under the Deputy Prime
Minister of the Republic of Tajikistan has ceased to function; however, activities of the sectoral
working groups are well coordinated, including through donors and their coordination, hence the
risk to this adversely affecting policy reforms is lowered. As stated in Annex, 2, the successful
implementation of CSRP was also achieved through selection on a competitive basis of 32 pilot
public partnership organizations with over 10 years of experience and many successful projects.
These organizations have performed well and have taken on many project tasks. CSRP has also
developed close working relationships with local Hukumats, Jamoats and NGOs. Heads of all
District Hukumats and Jamoats consider the project has achieved significant results.

80.      The financial risk to development outcome is moderate. The financial risk has been
greatly reduced by addressing the farmers’ debt problem and the preparation and adoption of a
number of legislative and regulatory acts that have created a favorable environment for the
operation of cotton DFs. This has given DFs the freedom to make decisions on agricultural
activities. In addition, education and training, which have positively affected DF activity in
recent years, should help to ensure their sustainability.

81.     One area where the risks might be elevated is in activities under the agricultural finance
component, specifically under loan repayment (see Aide Memoire, April/May 2012). Although
all loans are paid now, the two main PFIs, Agroinvestbank (AIB) and Tojiksodirotbank (TSB)
experienced delays in repayment by client ginneries. The reasons for delays in repayment mainly
concern delayed cotton fiber sale in anticipation of higher world prices; logistical reasons; and
poor financial and procurement management at ginnery level. Ginneries have the right to choose
a profit-maximizing sale strategy; however, poor price risk management and high risk aversion
of participating ginneries remain a major threat to the sustainability of CSRP’s post -harvest
finance component. Ginneries and PFIs need to follow up on recommendations made by the
Bank team on concluding forward sale contracts with reliable buyers and exporters so that the
ginneries can expect a certain level of their own profitability. It is essential that the PFIs pay
more attention to the ability of the ginneries to co-finance seed cotton purchases at the time of


                                                  20
loan review, and monitor repayment by ginneries to ensure overall sustainability of post-harvest
financing and sustainability of the PFIs. Under the third component, the TICs will continue their
operation, and have also started to recover the operational costs by charging for services to
farmers. The PMU has also taken a number of measures to ensure financial sustainability and
transition to self-financing of all created TICs (see FPA, p. 71).

82.      The environmental risk to development outcome is low. CSRP’s environmental rating
was ‘B’. CSRP supported training in agro-chemical use and pest management issues that were
identified in the EMP. Further, the project developed Environment Protection Action Plans for
ginneries and EIAs for sub-projects, and conducted training for PFIs and potential borrowers,
this risk is considered low.

83.     The social risk to development outcome is low. The project is socially sustainable as it has
built provisions that require transparent pricing for both fiber and by-products—a first step in
Tajikistan, where farmers often had little idea of the value of their crop. The freedom to farm has
made life better for farmers. It is likely that increasing agricultural productivity and incomes of
farming households will improve food security, and the socioeconomic status of the poor and
other vulnerable sections of Tajikistan’s rural population.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

       (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

       Rating: Satisfactory

84.     As discussed in Section 2.1, the project was a rational response to Tajikistan’s cotton debt
issue, and the Bank team worked closely with the client to prepare CSRP. The team took into
account lessons from experiences in other countries and the CAS, and designed CSRP with
measurable outcome indicators that were well-linked to the PDO. Given the complexity of the
debt resolution issue, the Bank fielded several missions prior to approval and effectiveness. The
Bank also undertook a pilot study to analyze modalities for debt resolution and worked closely
with other partners such as the ADB, DFID and SIDA in designing CSRP. This high-risk, high-
return approach paid off in the end.

       (b)     Quality of Supervision

       Rating: Satisfactory

85.      The Bank was very proactive in supervising CSRP and providing continuous guidance
for implementation, including through restructuring. The Bank fielded six supervision missions
in total between project approval in May 2007 and June 2008 to support project implementation
capacity to deal with rapid changes in project components, and to help the PMU to develop work
plans, budgets and come up with a workable action plan to resolve issues. The team worked
intensively with the client and the IMF to discuss potential options for resolving the difficult
cotton debt issue in the early years of implementation, as mentioned in Sector 2.2. Following


                                                21
restructuring, supervision efforts focused on the government’s commitment to sector reform and
implementation of the Staff Monitored Program and less on the eventual resolution of the debt
issue. The team is especially commended for its candid ratings during this period and throughout
the project, on progress towards achievement of the PDO, implementation progress (IP) and
safeguards. For example, very early in the project (in ISR #3 of March 2009), the PDO is
drastically downgraded from ‘S’ to ‘U’ and IP is downgraded from ‘S’ to ‘MU’ with a frank
assessment of issues. Managers’ comments are also upfront, with encouragement to the team to
review the PDO indicators to better capture CSRP’s re-oriented activities even prior to
restructuring. Actual M&E follow up of the project’s outcome indicators was well done, and the
team also did well in pursuing to conduct a timely and thorough Final Project Assessment. As
mentioned in Section 2.4, supervision of environmental safeguards, procurement and FM was
good and the Bank team helped to resolve any issues. Overall, one of the exceptional strengths of
CSRP supervision is the very upfront Aide Memoires, and candid ISRs and ratings.

       (c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

       Rating: Satisfactory

86.    This reflects the ‘S’ rating for both Quality at Entry and Supervision.

5.2    Borrower Performance

       (a)    Government Performance

       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

87.      Although the government accepted the pathway to reforms, actual reform of the cotton
sector was minimal, as detailed above. The cotton debt crisis escalated not only to become a
major source of macroeconomic instability, but it also discouraged foreign investment in the
cotton sector as international awareness of the government’s default on the cotton debt spread.
The Bank fielded frequent missions at the request of the Government, including discussions in
Washington DC and in Manila in January 2008 to discuss options in addressing the difficult
situation with the cotton debt issue, which was outside the scope of the project. Due to these
reasons, CSRP required restructuring and its’ scope and implementation arrangements were
adjusted. Overall, the government’s performance until this time is considered unsatisfactory.
After restructuring, the government showed commitment to agricultural reforms and pursued the
termination of policies that restricted farmer ability to use their land freely, and passed
legislation to promote competitive markets in buying and processing cotton. Overall, this created
an environment for the markets to function better and encourage investment in the sector that led
to its revival, higher productivity and farmer incomes.

       (b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

       Rating: Satisfactory

88.   The PMU underwent a somewhat difficult start-up period, which was considered a usual
phenomenon for many newly-established implementing agencies in Tajikistan. Suitable


                                                22
corrective actions were identified early, during the December 2007 Bank mission for all minor
deficiencies in project management including in the areas of procurement and FM in project
implementation. The PMU worked closely with the Bank team to successfully complete the
preparatory work in order to ensure an early start to project implementation. Jointly, the teams
worked to commission the baseline study ahead of the original schedule to permit an earlier-
than-expected evaluation of the baseline information in the project and “control” area and
establish detailed annual targets. Despite some setbacks that led to the rating for Project
Management being downgraded from ‘S’ to ‘MS’ in December 2010, (i.e. resigning of some key
staff such as the M&E specialist from the project due to the low salary scale) the PMU managed
to get the post-harvest credit lines started as planned and made considerable efforts to monitor its
related activities on the ground. Project Management was subsequently upgraded to ‘S’ and
maintained as the PMU made significant progress in implementing the Bank Supervision
Mission recommendations, especially in establishing the TICs, which had been delayed.

       (c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

89.   This reflects the ‘MS’ rating for Government and the ‘S’ rating for the Implementing
Agency performance.

6.     Lessons Learned

90.     The Bank should not shy away from intensely engaging government and working
closely with other partners (such as the ADB and the IMF in the case of CSRP) to resolve
difficult issues. In CSRP’s case, the continued dialogue with government, and working together
with the ADB and the IMF, the Bank was able to find a very effective solution to the cotton debt
issue, which could have escalated further into a much deeper crisis without the Bank’s
engagement and without the project.

91.     A good Results Framework is critical to good project design and effective
implementation. CSRP included a clear Project Development Objective and SMART (specific,
measurable, achievable, relevant and time-bound) indicators that reflected the intentions and
content of the PDO and could be attributed to project activities. In addition to its’ Results
Framework, the project undertook several surveys, including a thorough baseline survey and
final assessment that enabled the team to measure the project’s progress and attribute the impact
of project activities on beneficiaries.

92.    The role of local NGOs in extension activities in a small country like Tajikistan
should not be underestimated. CSRP established four Training Information Centers and
associated demonstration plots. Lessons learned from these projects include the value of working
with community groups to enhance participation and widen benefits; the benefits from working
with local NGOs to provide facilitation and training services.

93.    Providing market information to all beneficiaries at all levels (in this case the
ginneries and farmers) confirm the usefulness of market price information in bringing



                                                23
competition in the agricultural sector. As part of the Producers’ Support activities, the PMU
staff not only faxed daily world market cotton prices to local associations and farms, these prices
were also posted at the age to the ginneries. This played a role in farmers obtaining prices close
to world market prices for raw cotton sold to ginneries.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

       (a)     Borrower/implementing agencies
       (b)     Co-financiers
       (c)     Other partners and stakeholders




                                                 24
Annex 1.        Project Costs and Financing
      (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                           Appraisal     After Project Actual/Latest
                                                                                      Percentage of
              Components                 Estimate (USD Restructuring Estimate (USD
                                                                                       Appraisal
                                            millions)   (USD millions)   millions)
Cotton Debt Resolution                             2.90           0.00           0.00      0.00
Policy Analysis and Reform                         0.70           0.70           0.70    100.00
Cotton Supply Chain Development                    9.80           0.00           0.00      0.00
Agriculture Finance and Producer Support           0.00          12.90          12.77     98.00
Project Management                                 1.60           1.40           1.01     69.00
                    Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                             0.00           0.00           0.00      0.00
Price Contingencies                                0.00           0.00           0.00      0.00
                     Total Project Costs          15.00          15.00          14.48     96.50
Front-end fee PPF                                  0.00           0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                 0.00           0.00           0.00
              Total Financing Required             0.00           0.00           0.00


(b)      Financing

                                             Type of    Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                                                    Percentage of
              Source of Funds                  Co-      Estimate        Estimate
                                                                                     Appraisal
                                            financing (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                                   0.00           0.00           0.00
International Development Association (IDA)               15.00          14.48          96.50




                                               25
Annex 2.       Outputs by Component

1.     The Project Restructuring Paper (Credit No. 4314 – TJ, P098889) presents the revised
Results Framework with Results Indicators for each component and the Target Values of FY12.
The following are the outputs and results achieved under each component.

Revised Component 2: Support for Policy Analysis and Reform (Technical Assistance to
Government to guide policy reform)

2.      The following was adopted to conform with solving the cotton debt issue: the Decree of
the President of the Republic of Tajikistan № 663 of 30 May 2009 "On additional measures to
support agriculture in the Republic of Tajikistan"; and the Resolution of the Government of the
Republic of Tajikistan № 406, July 2, 2009 "On measures for implementation of the Decree of
the President of the Republic of Tajikistan on May 30, 2009 № 663 ". On additional measures to
support agriculture, the following was adopted: "Indebtedness of business entities of the
Republic of Tajikistan, producing cotton, formed before January 1, 2008 from all sources of
funding should be resolved through writing off debts, debt discounting, deferral and payment
terms installment, as well as issuing long-term government securities.

   The Decree of the President of the Republic of Tajikistan № 663 as of May 30, 2009 "On
    additional measures to support agriculture in the Republic of Tajikistan";
   Resolution of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan № 406 on July 2, 2009 "On
    measures for implementation of the Decree of the President of the Republic of Tajikistan №
    663, May 30, 2009 "On additional measures to support agriculture in the Republic of
    Tajikistan;
   Resolution of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan № 586, October 31, 2009 "On
    approval of the cotton sector development Program in the Republic of Tajikistan for 2010-
    2014";
   Improvement of regulatory framework to protect the rights of land users;
   Simplification of procedures for exporting cotton;
   Introduction of universal standard for cotton classification, etc.

3.      As a part of the project the following was done upon the recommendations and with the
active participation of project consultants:

•   Formation of the Agricultural Reforms Secretariat under the Deputy Prime Minister of the
    Republic of Tajikistan in the number of 2 people;
•   Formation of 6 (six) sectoral working groups on reformation of the branches/Departments of
    the Ministries and Agencies
•   Organization of an international Conference on agricultural reform, which was attended by
    300 people, including the more than 100 international organizations;
•   Preparation and submission of 15 political brief notes to the Government of RT on the issues
    of reform and development of the various sectors of the agricultural industry;
•   6 (six) Foreign Study Tours;
•   Conduct of travelling training workshops on policy aimed at informing the public about the
    measures taken to resolve the cotton debts of DF/.


                                              26
4.      The solution of the problem of farmers’ debt to futures companies and the adopted
Decree of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan from July 2, 2009, № 406 "On measures
for implementation of the Decree of the President of the Republic of Tajikistan on May 30, 2009
№ 663 "On additional measures to support agriculture in the Republic of Tajikistan", prepared
with active participation of CSRP Consultants became the key factors preventing the further
decline and collapse of the cotton sector, and created a foundation for sustainable development
of cotton and the whole agricultural sector in Tajikistan, as the stock of DFs’ debt to futures
companies had a negative impact not only for cotton, but also in other sectors of agriculture .

Intermediate Outcomes Indicators

Component 2:

    1. Policy Advisor in place, collaborating actively with staff of President’s Office
This goal was achieved. The International Policy Advisor was hired and actively and
successfully worked with members of the President's Office, members of working group and
donors during 3 years. The Advisor was actively involved in policy-making in the agricultural
sector, the development of legal and regulatory acts, preparation of policy briefs and other events.

    2. Annual analysis of the impact of policy reform and other project activity
In the course of the Project implementation there were three annual analyses of the policy reform
impact and the effect of other project activities. In accordance with the annual reports, submitted
by the International Policy Consultant, three policy reform impact analyses were accomplished.
Performance on this indicator is 100%

    3. Number of Policy briefs prepared and distributed
The target for this indicator was an average of 10 notes/briefs. For three years, the International
Policy Consultant has prepared and distributed 15 policy briefs, which were sent to the
Government, the Ministries and Departments. (See FPA Section 4.1 on “The reforms, post-
harvest financing, training workshops, courses and other activities carried out under the project"
for the list of prepared Policy briefs. Performance on this indicator is 150%.

    4. Number of Policy workshops and seminars conducted
According to this indicator, the target was to conduct 10 seminars on policy and reforms during
three years. Ten workshops/seminars were held in different Districts during 2011-2013. The
Performance on this indicator is 100%.

Training workshops (seminars) and conferences on agricultural policies undertaken under CSRP:

  №                             Topic                                  Place and Date of conduct
  1   International Conference on the Agricultural Reform      Dushanbe, April 15, 2011
  2   Training workshop (seminar) on the Agricultural Reform   Kurgan-Tube, March 27-28 2012
  3   Training workshop (seminar) on the Agricultural Reform   Vose District, April 5-6
  4   Training workshop (seminar) on the Agricultural Reform   Shahrinav District, July 3-5 2012
  5   Training workshop (seminar) on the Agricultural Reform   Kurgan-Tube, July 10-122012
  6   Training workshop (seminar) on the Agricultural Reform   Kulob, July 13-15, 2012



                                                    27
  7    Training workshop (seminar) on the Agricultural Reform   Istaravshan, July 17-19, 2012
  8    International Conference on the Agricultural Reform      Dushanbe, September 24 2012
  9    Training workshop (seminar) on the Agricultural Reform   Kurgan-Tube, February 14-15 2013
  10   Training workshop (seminar) on the Agricultural Reform   Kulob, February 1-22, 2013

Component 5

   1. Improved access to finance through the establishment of a revolving credit line for
      Post-Harvest finance for cotton in selected project area

The first revolving credit line was established in 2011, not in 2009 as provided in the Revised
Arrangements for Results Monitoring, as this subcomponent became operational only in 2010.
However, due to delays in the repayment of loans by the ginneries, the amount of the revolving
fund in 2011- 2012 was slightly less than the credited US$10.4m, and totaled US$9.1m.
Considering that to finance the production of cotton and other agricultural products both banks
have also used much of their own funds, which are significantly higher than the funds granted by
the CSRP, it generally can be stated that this indicator is accomplished at 100%.

   2. Number of Public Awareness Programs in Khatlon

The target for this indicator was to conduct six public awareness campaigns in Khatlon region
over three years. Five campaigns were carried out by the 19 NGOs during the 6 months in 2009
and 2010; one campaign was held by nine NGOs during 2011-2012; and another one campaign
was held by four NGOs during 2012-2013. In total, seven public awareness campaigns were
conducted in the Khatlon region, which shows the performance on this indicator as 117%.

   3. Number of rural people, including women, benefiting from public awareness
      programs

15,000 rural people, including women were targeted under this indicator. In compliance with the
reports submitted by NGOs and the project accounting records, the actual number of rural
residents who benefited from the public awareness program is 6,800, including 2,145 women.
The trainings were conducted by 19 NGOs during the period from August 4, 2009 to February 4,
2010. Completion percentage for this indicator is 45%.

   4. Number of Trainers trained to implement community outreach and farmer
      extension programs in project districts

According to this indicator 80 trainers were to be educated for implementation of community
outreach programs to enable them to train farmers in the project areas. According to the
submitted data, the eight NGOs - "Amon," "Bakht", "Bonuvoni Khatlon", "Bonuvoni fardo",
"Mehrangez", "MDRS Khatlon Region", "Nazm" and "Furughi Marifat" in 2011-2012 had
trained 80 trainers, indicating a 100% achievement of this target.

   5. Number of rural people, including women, benefiting from community outreach
      programs



                                                     28
The target for this indicator was 13,000. The actual number of rural people, including women
who benefited from community outreach programs is 10,120 in 2011-2012. The completion
percentage for this indicator is 77%.

   6. Number of rural people, including women, benefiting from Farmer Extension
      programs

The target result for this indicator was 4000. The number of rural residents including women
who benefited from the Farmer Extension program was 5251 in 2012-2013. The percentage of
achievement is 131%.

5.     Under the revised Component 5, the results on the utilization of the CSRP credit line and
revolving credit line are presented in Section 3.2 of the ICR’s main text. The final results of the
2011-2012 season cotton post-harvest financing suggests that the component had allowed
purchasing 13,400 tons of seed cotton from 2,891 farmers as compared with about 7,000 tons of
seed cotton purchased from 1,650 farmers in 2010-2011.

6.       Evidence suggests that PFIs have also used CSRP roll-over funds to finance other eligible
activities under the project. TSP provided 239 loans for a broad range of activities including
cotton production, livestock farming and grain production. The value of disbursed loans raged
from US$ 1,523 to 158,088 with the median loan size of US$10,504. The duration of loans
ranged from 3 to 36 months. This suggests that some farmers were able to receive mid-term
financing in order to purchase agricultural machinery.

7.    Financing cotton production remained the primary activity for which farmers have
borrowed from TSB. It accounted for 62% of the US$ 4 million portfolio.

8.     In addition to achieving the majority of the set indicators under each component, CSRP
contributed to the following outputs:

      Over 22,171 people attended 972 training courses and other project events. This has
       greatly improved their knowledge and skills in the production of cotton and other
       agricultural products, and in legal and economic issues, which have had a positive impact
       on the results of their work.
      Personnel of the involved NGOs and the PMU have developed and distributed to farmers
       and other attendees over 193,500 copies of various brochures, leaflets and other printed
       materials, which have also had a positive impact on the skills of farmers.
      The TICs and demonstration plots established under the project have allowed tofill the
       vacuum in obtaining the necessary practical education for DFs. However, as noted by the
       leaders of NGOs, to reach more farmers, it would be better to establish demonstration
       plots in each of the 18 pilot areas, reducing the area of demonstration plots from 50
       hectares to 10 hectares in one area and having them running for at least five years.
      A system of informing local Hukumats of 18 Districts was established, through which
       farmers got information on world cotton prices. This helped farmers to sell produced
       cotton at prices closer to world prices.



                                                29
   CSRP was successfully implemented also due to the careful selection on a competitive
    basis of 32 pilot public partnership organizations, which performed well and had creative
    attitudes. These included, "Bonuvoni Khatlon", "Support and Development Center of
    Khatlon region”, PO "Source of life", PO "Baht", Association of DFs of Khatlon region,
    PO "Fidokor", “Public Support Fund for Farmers and Entrepreneurs - biotechnology" and
    other POs that had more than 10 years of experience and dozens of successful projects.
   The project also developed close working relationships with local Hukumats, Jamoat and
    NGOs, and was highly appreciated by the Heads of all District Hukumats and Jamoats.
    They consider the project has achieved significant tangible results.




                                           30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis4

Background

1.      The original CSRP had the project development objective (PDO) to improve the
livelihood of cotton farmers and create the conditions for sustainable growth of cotton
production in selected, low income areas of Tajikistan, through debt resolution, an improved
policy environment, and increased cotton output and profitability. The PAD considered
addressing the sector’s issues through (i) eliminating the barriers that prevent competition in
input supply and output marketing; (ii) increasing competition for cotton products by
establishing a strong alternative buyer in local markets and (iii) post-privatization support
through the provision of credit and advisory services to newly privatized family farms. The
increase in farm productivity for the period 2007-2011 was anticipated to be the main source of
incremental income.

2.     On the cost side, the PAD’s economic analysis reflected expected on-farm costs to be
partly financed through all four components of the Cotton Supply Chain Development
Component. These project costs totaled about US$300/hectare. On the benefit size, it was
assumed that 66% of farms in the project area would participate and fully introduce the
technological improvements needed within a four-year period.

3.     The project was restructured in February 2010 to better respond to constraints and
opportunities that were not present at the time of the project design with the elimination of the
debt resolution component and replacing the cotton supply chain development component with
the agriculture finance and producer support component. The PDO was changed to benefit
cotton farmers and create the conditions for sustainable growth of cotton production in low
income areas of Tajikistan through an improved policy environment and better access to finance.

4.       In line with the revised project operational manual, the participating financial institutions
(PFIs) started financing non-cotton agricultural activities in 2012: two years after financing
activities in the cotton sector. According to information from the PFIs, they provided about 5.5
million to financing non-cotton agriculture starting 2012 out of USD 10.4 million, financing
potatoes, cattle, small ruminants, potato, grain production and other activities.

Approach and Assumptions

5.      The financial and economic (FEA) analysis carried at project restructuring was carried
out for a notional transaction in order to illustrate anticipated rates of return at each stage of the
domestic cotton value chain: seed cotton production (farmer), ginning and cotton fiber trading. It
was assumed that incremental income as a result of project activities (“with project scenario”)
will be accrued thanks to higher yields and shortened payments as compared with the “without
project scenario. The analysis clearly demonstrates the potential value of the on-going reform


4
 Prepared by Dmitry Prikhodko, Economist, Investment Centre Division of the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United
Nations (FAO), June 2013.




                                                            31
program to farmers. This analysis focused exclusively on farmers’ profitability due to time
constraints.

6.    The average cotton yields at project restructuring in 2010 were anticipated at 2.2 t/ha
(moderate case scenario). The average yields reported by official statistics for Khatlon oblast in
2010-2012 were confirmed at 2.2 t/ha as compared with 1.6 t/ha in 2007-2008.

7.     Prior to the project restructuring (2008-2009), all cotton production costs were assumed
to be financed by cotton investors (“futurists” or traders who used to sell pre-finance cotton
production in order to secure cotton supply). At project completion, farmers already could
finance about 30% of total production costs due to better financing available from local
commercial banks.

8.     The cost of financing was set at 24% per annum in USD denominated loans - the average
rate of financing farmers were expected to pay in Tajikistan -- at the time of project
implementation.

9.      The two commercial banks participating in this project started providing financing to
non-cotton agriculture and agribusiness activities in late 2011-early 2012. While it was a much
welcomed and encouraged development under CSRP (as it had allowed to untie financing from
the cotton sector activities and allowed PFI to better respond to demand from farmers), there was
no information on costs and returns for a variety of the newly funded non-cotton activities at
project completion. Therefore, the analysis included in this note covered two years of project
operation when it had focused purely on the cotton post-harvest financing: 2010-11 and 2011-12
seasons (marketing years).

10.    International cotton prices were highly volatile at the time of project implementation and
ranged from as low as USD 1135/1MT of cotton lint/fiber in March 2009 to USD 5063/1MT in
March 2011 (please refer to Figure 3 in the Annexes). Overall, there was a slight upward trend
in nominal cotton prices through the life of the project with an exception of an unprecedented
peak of November-June2011. The peak, caused by the floods in Pakistan and other cotton
supply disruptions, was rather unusual and was not considered for the purposes of this analysis.

11.     According to CSRP M&E system, only 3% of farmers sold their cotton below the 80%
threshold of the equivalent international cotton price on sale date. Improved price transparency
in the domestic market is also believed to have contributed to higher prices received by farmers
in the 2011-2012 marketing year. Despite significantly lower international cotton prices in the
2011-12 marketing year as compared with 2010-11, the average seed cotton price paid to farmers
under CSRP actually increased from USD 701 per one ton in 2010-2011 to USD 775 per one ton
in 2011-2012 (+11%). This was largely due to increased competition amongst participating
ginneries and their anticipation of higher international cotton prices later in the 2011-2012
marketing year. The latter expectations of cotton ginners did not materialize and caused
difficulties in loan repayments later.




                                               32
12.     Representative Cotton fiber and seed cotton prices at project start and beginning were
used for this analysis as indicated in the table below to remove possible effects of price shocks
that occurred at the time of project implementation.

Table 6 Cotton prices before and after the project

                           Cotton          Seed cotton
         Pre-project      USD 1,830         USD 550
         Post-project     USD 2,205         USD 620
       Source: Cotlook and CSRP PMU

Financial and Economic Analysis

13.    The FEA model used for project restructuring was also utilized at project completion
with the primary focus on cotton farmers, their cash flow and profitability. The financial model
was modified to remove the number of scenarios and use actual costs, yields and returns.

14.     At the time of final project evaluation in 2013, 62% of beneficiary farmers identified
promptness of payment as a selection criterion as compared 31.4% for ginnery distance/location.
As a result of improved financing of cotton gins they can now assure immediate payments to
cotton farmers at the end of the project as opposed to significant payment delays prior to the
project. The project also introduced the best practices of ginners borrowing for harvest finance
from commercial banks. These practices did not exist before as financing along the entire cotton
chain was tied to the so-called “futurists” and investors.

15.     The figure below illustrates estimated cumulative earnings of a Tajik cotton farmer
throughout the cotton production and sale cycle prior to and at the time of project completion.
The cumulative balance of earning represents the monthly net expenses and revenues, including
the cost of financing, as illustrated in Figure 3 and Figure 4 in annexes to this note.

16.     As seen in the figure above, farmers’ net cumulative cash flow improved considerably
due to a combination of factors, including increased prices, lower debt and servicing costs,
improved payment terms, input availability and other factors before and after the project. Prior
to the project, the farmers could expect to receive about US$ 109 per 1 ha achieving positive
returns only in March-April of the year following after the harvest. Such late payments did not
allow farmers alternating cotton with other field crops, like winter wheat. After the project, the
farmers will already achieve the breakeven point by October of the same year with the final
estimated net income reaching US$ 274 per ha by November-December of the same year.

17.     Financial profitability measured as a net return over cotton production and financing
costs (% and US$ per one ton of cotton), increased at project completion compared with the pre-
project situation (2008). In particular, the net margin of cotton farmers per hectare increased
from US$ 51 to US$ 124, while the rate of return on costs increased from 17% to 26%. The
summary of the financial profitability of cotton farmers before and after the project is provided
in the table below. (See annexes to this note for a more detailed summary of the financial
analysis.)


                                               33
Figure 2: Cumulative balance of monthly earnings and costs in cotton production and sale
in 2008 and at project completion, US$ per hectare




                                                                                                                S
ource: own calculations

Table 7.          Summary of the financial analysis results

                                                                              Net margin, US$ per ton of seed
                                                Return on costs (%)
                                                                                          cotton
                                             Before       At project
                                                                           Before project   At project completion
                                             project   completion (2012-
                                                                              (2008)          (2012-13 season)
                                             (2008)       13 season)
 Financial profitability at the farm level     17             26                51                  124
Source: own calculations


18.     After a sharp decrease of the cotton area in Khatlon oblast from 153,000 ha in 2008 to
101,000 hectares in 2011, it then increased to 128,000 ha in 2012 in response to high prices and
profitability (refer to Figure 5 in the Annexes Section).

19.     Cotton yields also increased from 1.58 MT/ha in 2008 to 2.21 in 2012 responding to the
positive profitability and increased availability of agricultural inputs -- another important
element of overall cotton sector recovery.

20.    Economic analysis. As Tajikistan imposes a 10% export duty on cotton fiber, we
adjusted the financial model to using international cotton prices at farm gate in Tajikistan
without the 10% export duty. The economic profitability of cotton production under these
conditions is summarized in the table below.




                                                         34
Table 8.        Summary of the economic analysis

                         Economic return on costs (%)              Net margin per ton of seed cotton
                Before project  At project completion (2012-13   Before project    At project completion
                   (2008)                   season)                 (2008)           (2012-13 season)
    Farmers          23                       40                     51.3                  188.0
Source: own calculations

Fiscal impact

21.     The original project design envisaged that the main fiscal impact at project end to stem
would from: (i) increased tax revenues from marketing and service activities associated with
increased agricultural output, particularly from VAT; (ii) increased ability of farmers to meet
their payments for social obligations and utility bills to the public budget; and (iii) in increased
output, which would improve domestic food supplies, reduce the need for imports, and increase
exports of cotton.

22.      According to the information the Government of Tajikistan (GoT) reported to the WTO,
the government effectively wrote off US$ 548 million of farm cotton debt in 20095. This debt
forgiveness served the purpose of liberating cotton farmers as one of the main pre-condition
towards the freedom to farm in Tajikistan. However, this debt forgiveness also represented a
loss to the public finances, as the National Bank of Tajikistan had to cover losses.

23.     As already mentioned above, the GoT imposes a 10% export tax on cotton. Cotton
farmers also pay the fixed agricultural tax and cotton sales are subject to the VAT in domestic
sales. The FOB export value of cotton exported in 2008-2010 averaged US$ 136 million with an
average export tax revenues alone accounted for US$ 13.6 million per year. However, it was not
possible to find reliable information on actual VAT payments in the domestic cotton trade as
well as identify other tax revenues from cotton farmers in order to quantify expected timeframe
for debt recovery through fiscal measures.




5
 World Trade Organization, Document WT/ACC/SPEC/TJK/3/Rev.5 dated 5 October 2012 entitled “Domestic
Support and Export Subsidies in the Agricultural Sector - Revision”



                                                    35
Annexes

Figure 3.       International Cotton Prices, US$/1 MT




Source: own presentation based on Cotlook Index A


Figure 4.       Flow of Cotton Farmer Costs and Revenues without (prior) Project in 2008,
US$/ha




Source: own presentation based on the financial model used at project restructuring




                                                      36
Figure 5.        Flow of Cotton Farmer Costs and Revenues at Project Completion 2012,
US$/ha




Source: own presentation based on the financial model used at project completion


Table 9.         Costs and benefits of cotton farmers before and at the time of project
completion

                                                                               US$ per MT of seed cotton
                                                US$ per HA
                                      Before     At project                Before     At project
                                                            Change,%                               Change,%
                                      Project   completion                 Project   completion
 Total production cost                  650        1040        60%         406.25    472.727273       16%
 Total Revenues                         880        1364        55%           550         620          13%
 Credit need (principal amount)        736.3       683.5       -7%          460.2       310.7        -32%
 Cost of financing                     121.2        50.4      -58%           75.7        22.9        -70%
 Gross Margin                          230.0       324.0       41%          143.8       147.3          2%
 Net margin                            108.8       273.6     151%            68.0       124.4         83%
 Return on cost                        17%         26%         57%          17%         26%           57%
 Total cost, including debt
                                       482.0        495.6        3%         482.0       495.6         3%
 servicing (USD per MT)
Source: calculations based on the financial model




                                                       37
Figure 6.         Cotton Areas and Production in Khatlon oblast of Tajikistan in 2006-2012




Source: National Statistics Agency of Tajikistan



Information sources:

24.      The following information was used for the purposes of this analysis:

      1. Official WB Project Documentation, including Project Restructuring Paper, Integrated
         Safeguards Datasheet, Project Operational Manual, Subsidiary Loan Agreements and
         Seed Cotton Financing Guidelines.
      2. Daily seed cotton prices paid by the ginneries with benchmarking against international
         cotton fiber as reported in M&E System of the CSRP.
      3. Results of the 2009 CSRP Baseline Survey (dated March 2011) and Tajikistan Cotton
         Farmer Survey in November‐December 2008: both surveys conducted by Zvi Lerman,
         World Bank and FAO consultant.
      4. Policy Note 2. “Freedom to Farm”: The Behavior of Producers, Ginneries, Investors, and
         Local Government in the Cotton Sector prepared by Zvi Lerman, April 2011;
      5. CSRP PMU: Final Project Assessment Report, March 2013.
      6. Official cotton production statistics, 2012, National Statistics Agency of Tajikistan.




                                                   38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)   Task Team members

          Names                            Title                   Unit
Lending
Awudu Abdulai              Consultant                             ECSSD
Elmas Arisoy               Manager                                EASR2
Arcadii Capcelea           Senior Environmental Specialist        ECSEN
Garry N. Christensen       Consultant                              AES
Anna Crole-Rees            Consultant                             ECSSD
Norpulat Daniyarov         Sr Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3
Daniel P. Gerber           Rural Development Specialist           ECSAR
Lola Ibragimova            Social Development Specialist          ECSSO
Hannah M. Koilpillai       Senior Finance Officer                 CTRFC
Patrick Labaste            Sector Leader                          EASER
Mark R. Lundell            Sector Manager                         EASCS
Brian Aidan Lynch          Consultant                             ECSSD
Marc Peter Sadler          Practice Leader                        SDNVP
Thirumangalam V. Sampath   Consultant                             AFTN2
Daphne Sawyerr-Dunn        Program Assistant                      ECSSD
Helen Z. Shahriari         Sr Social Scientist                    AFTCS
Bekzod Shamsiev            Senior Agriculture Economist           SASDA
Nikolai Soubbotin          Senior Counsel                         LEGAM
Asyl Undeland              Consultant                             SASDL
Bobojon Yatimov            Senior Rural Development Specialist    ECSAR

Supervision/ICR
Nicolas Ahouissoussi       Senior Agriculture Economist/TTL       ECSSD
Ayse Seda Aroymak          Sr Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3
Alexander Balakov          Senior Procurement Specialist          ECSO2
Arcadii Capcelea           Senior Environmental Specialist        ECSEN
Valencia Copeland          Program Assistant                      ECSSD
Garry N. Christensen       Consultant                              AES
Norpulat Daniyarov         Sr Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3
Malathi Jayawickrama       Senior Operations Officer/Author ICR   ECSSD
Dilshod Karimova           Procurement Analyst                    ECSO2
Naushad A. Khan            Consultant                             ECSO2
Shodi Nazarov              Financial Management Analyst           ECSO3
John Otieno Ogallo         Sr Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3
Marc Peter Sadler          Practice Leader                        SDNVP
Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu      Consultant                             EASTS
Bobojon Yatimov            Senior Rural Development Specialist    ECSAR




                                            39
(b)    Staff Time and Cost

                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                                 246.16
  FY07                                                                 438.14
  FY08                                                                  50.75
                             Total:                                    735.05
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                 282.49
  FY09
  FY10
  FY11
  FY12
  FY13
                             Total:                                    282.49




                                          40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(Not Applicable)




                                      41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(Not Applicable)




                                       42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Comments were received from the Borrower as follows:

                               Unofficial translation of feedback/comments from Government

                                    DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER

       Registration #13/5-18                                             September 24, 2013

                                                                    To: Mrs. Marsha Olive,
                                                                    Country Manager
                                                                    World Bank in Tajikistan

       Dear Mrs. Olive,

       I would first like to thank you for the opportunity to submit my comments to the
report, prepared by the Bank, on completion of Cotton Sector Recovery Project. The
Government of Tajikistan is interested in an independent evaluation of the implementation
of projects with a view of learning from the experience of projects implementation and
scaling up best practices.

        The agricultural sector in Tajikistan is perhaps the most difficult and complex sector
of the economy that includes a number of vital sub-sectors such as irrigation, land use, local
governance, financing, and is an economic sector that provides employment for 64 % of the
population of the Republic of Tajikistan. The development of this sector is a priority for the
Government, given its contribution to food security and improving the welfare of the
population.

       Started with adoption of # 406 Resolution on “Additional measures to support the
agricultural sector in the Republic of Tajikistan” by the Government of Tajikistan,
Government is making great efforts to promote reforms in all directions that include issues
of farming, land use, irrigation, agricultural management, financing and social security in
rural areas. Cotton Sector Recovery Project was developed and implemented in a much
needed time when the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan started to introduce
essential and necessary reforms aimed at changing the policies in the agricultural sector.
This Project, developed in close collaboration with the World Bank, was designed to assist
and support the achievement of cotton sector recovery goals, which have been identified as
pre-condition for sustainable growth. The Government and the World Bank team agreed
during the planning of the project that it is necessary to pay special attention to the reforms
of the agricultural sector , and made "cotton debt resolution" and "development of a
competitive production and sustainable growth" as priorities of the sector. Writing off cotton
farms’ debts and the provision of “freedom to farms” (Resolution № 111) gave the main
impulse to the beginning of diversification in agriculture. The project provided its support in
promoting reforms through the recruitment of international consultants, who worked in


                                              43
direct cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan in order to develop the
policies. The main achievements were the following: amendments were made in several
laws, including the Law on “Dehqan farms (DF)”, reforms in agriculture, as well as the
restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture, analytical papers, conferences on agricultural
reform, study tours, seminars on policy and other measures to better inform farmers about
their rights for land and land use.

       In addition, one of the achievements of the project was the provision and
implementation of alternative financing mechanism that was not in place at the very
beginning, after the mechanism of futures funds that didn’t prove to be effective was
canceled. Accumulated, while using futures contracts, debts hindered the implementation of
planned government reforms in the agricultural sector, and had a direct negative impact on
the development of the cotton sector.

        In the framework of the project the credit line was established and implemented
through local commercial banks that enabled them, after the actual decline of the cotton
sector, to continue lending in the agricultural sector based on financial resources, received
from the World Bank. Concessional loans, provided to 5 cotton processing enterprises in
2010, 11 ginnery enterprises in 2011, and 2 ginnery enterprises in 2012, allowed banks to
obtain economic benefits, to make payments on time, and to establish trust-based-relations
with farmers, involved in cotton production. This lending scheme was also subsequently
expanded to include other activities for financing in agriculture and to provide post-harvest
financing. Improving an access to financing is one of the priorities in the agricultural sector
and requires a significant amount of investments. Cotton sector recovery project has made a
significant contribution to the resolution of this issue and provided the necessary support to
overcome the crisis in the cotton sector.

       It is also necessary to note the role of the project in enhancing the capacity of local
authorities, as well as the contribution of the project in supporting the development of
farming by providing training courses and specific trainings at the field. Centers for the
dissemination of information that were set up in some project areas, as well as the training
courses for farmers also had a positive impact on the implementation of the above reforms in
the sector. Activities on dissemination of information and trainings, organized for farmers
and despite their small scale, can serve as a model for developing the capacity of farmers,
because of its timeliness and relevance of proper training of specialists for small and
medium-sized farms, which were formed during the restructuring of large collective farms.

       The project has achieved significant results, taking into account the adjustments that
have been made in the design in the course of its implementation, through close cooperation
with the World Bank, making timely decisions, implementing measures and carrying out
monitoring. Unfortunately, the project failed to establish a large-scale mechanism for post-
project sustainability and maintaining the obtained results, as the sector is in need of
comprehensive measures that require significant investment. Scaling up of projects such as
cotton sector recovery project will accelerate the growth of the agricultural sector of the
country and solve priority problems in its development. This project has brought significant

                                              44
results for farmers at the local level and the banking system and for implementation of
reforms in the agricultural sector. We agree with the evaluation of the project, given by the
World Bank, and we are grateful for assistance, rendered for the development of the
agricultural sector as a whole.



Deputy Prime Minister
Republic of Tajikistan                                   Alimardon. M




                                             45
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                        46
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

CSRP, Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 39494-TJ, May 31, 2007.
CSRP, Project Information Document, Report No. AB2260, February 17, 2010.
CSRP, Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan Report,
March 19, 2007.
CSRP, Minutes of the Quality Enhancement Review Meeting for the TAJIKISTAN:
Cotton Sector Recovery and Poverty Reduction Project (P098889), October 2006.
CSRP Financing Agreement, Number 4314-TJ, June 29, 2007.
CSRP, Amendment to the Financing Agreement, March 11, 2010
CSRP, Implementation Status and Results Report, Numbers 1 to 10, December 2007 –
March 2013.
CSRP, Aide Memoires of Implementation Support Missions, August 2007 – March
2013
CSRP, Project Restructuring Paper, Report No. 49780-TJ, August 31, 2009
CSRP, Monthly Reports, 2007-2013.
Financial Sector Mission Aide Memoire, April 1-10, 2013.
International Project Implementation Consultant Report, Inception Report, FNT
Consultants, February 2010.

Government/other Documents

CSRP, Final Project Assessment, Rahmat Khakulov, International Consultant, March
2013..

Public Organization, ‘The Source of Life’, Report, 2013




                                         47
                                                   68°E                                                                 70°E                                                                         Rayons
                                                                 KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tursunzoda
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Shahrinav
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Murghob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Nosir Khusrav
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   39 Kulob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40 Baljuvon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   41 Hamadoni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TAJ IK ISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3   Rudaki             22   Shahrituz        42 Shurobod                               CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4   Hissor             23   Qabodiyon        43 Khovaling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AUTONOMOUS OBLAST CENTER*
                                                                                                                                                                                                      5   Varzob             24   Jilikul          44 Muminobod
                                                                                                                                                                                                      6   Fayzobod           25   Khuroson         45 Pandjakent                             OBLAST CENTERS
                                                                                                          To                                                                                          7   Vahdat             26   Qumsangir        46 Ayni
                                                                                                       Tashkent                                                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                    TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                                        8   Roghun             27   Bokhtar          47 Shahriston
                                                                                                                                                                                                      9   Nurobod            28   Rumi             48 Zafarobod                              MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                      57                                Andijon                      10   Rasht              29   Jomi             49 Istaravshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                                                           Fergana                                                                   11   Tojikobod          30   Vakshs           50 Ghonchi
                                                                              To                                             Valley Dary                     UZBEKISTAN                                                                            51 Spitamen                               JAMOAT (SUB-DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                     12   Tavildara          31   Yovon
                                                                           Tashkent                                 Taboshar                r
                                                                                                  52                                   Sy                           To                               13   Jirgatol           32   Sarband          52 Mastchoh
                                                                                                                                                                  Andijon                                                                                                                    RAYON (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                  55                                                                                 14   Darvoz             33   Panj             53 Jabor Rasulov
                                                                                                                    Kayrakkum                                                                        15   Vanj               34   Danghara         54 Kuhistoni Mastchoh                     AUTONOMOUS OBLAST BOUNDARY*
                                                                                                  Khodjand           Reservoir           Konibodom                                                   16   Ishkoshim          35   Farkhor          55 Ghafurov
                                                                                                       Chkolovsk                 56                                                                                                                                                          OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                     17   Roshtqala          36   Norak            56 Konibodom
                                                     To                    48                     51 53                                  58                                                          18   Rushon             37   Vose             57 Asht                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
             40°N                                  Bukhoro
                                                                                     49                                                                                                              19   Shughnon           38   Temurmalik       58 °N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40  Isfara
                                                                                          Ura-                                                                             To                                                                                                      * Area with no oblast-level administrative divisions,
                                          SOGD                                            Tyube                                                                         Kyzyl-Kiya              72°E                                                                                 where rayons are under direct republic jurisdiction.


                To
                                         REGION                                           50                                                                                          KY RGY Z REP.
              Bukhoro                                                       47                                                                                                                                                                                             74°E
                                                                                                                                                                                            To                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                         Sary-Tash                                           Osh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0      20      40       60      80 Kilometers
                                                                                                               an
                                     Pendzhikent                                                       Zeravsh
                                                               Ayni                                           54
                                            45                                                          ge
                                                                          46
                                                                                     i-        Ran                                                          Jirgatal'          13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pik Lenin                                             0           20            40           60 Miles

                                                                                 Ala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (7134 m )
                                                                                                                                      10
                                                                 Tr   ans                                                        Rasht                                                 Pik Imeni                                           Lake
                                                                                                                                                       11                         Ismail Samani                                          Karakul'
                                                                                                                                                                                     (7495 m )
                                                                                                      Komsomolabad

                                                                                 5                7                       9                                       12
                              Region under                            4                                        8
                             direct Republic                                                                 Obigarm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GHORNO-
                                                       1 DUSHANBE                                                                                     14
                             subordination                 2                                       6                                                                                                                     BADAKHSHAN                                                       Rangkul'
                                                                                                                  40                            Kalaikhum                                  Pik Revolution
                                                                                                   Nurek                 43                                                    Vanj 15
                                                                                                                                                                                               (6,974 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A.O.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CHI N A
              UZ B E K IS TAN                                                                  36                                                                                    P                              ng    Rukhch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20
                                                                  3                                                                                                                         a                     ta                                      Murgab Murgab




                                                                                                                                                                                                            r
                                                                                  31
                                                                                                                                                                                                     m




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ba
                                                                                                                                          j
                                                                                                                                      Pan




                                                                                                                           44
                                                                      25                                38                                                                                                    i              Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sarezskoye                                                                                                        38°N
             38°N
                                                                                             34                                                                                                        18            r
                                                                            29                        Kulyab 39                                                                                                          s
                                                                               32                                        42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ak
                                                                          27 Kurgan-                    37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     su
                     To                                                      Tyube                                                                                                                                                                     Alichur
                    Qarshi                                                                                        41
                                                               24             30                             Moskovskiy
                                                22                                                                                                                                                        19
                                                      Garavuti                               35                                                                                                                                                           Pamir
                                                                           28
                                                                                                                                                                                     Khorog
                                                        23
                                                                                                                                   KHATLON
                                           Shahrtuz                   26              33
                                                                                                                                    REGION
                                                         h




                                                                                          Pyanj
                                                       Vakhs




                                           21                                                                                                                                     Andarob                     Pik Karl Marx
                                                                                                                                                                                                                (6723 m )
                                                                                                                                                                                                17
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Vrang
                                                                                                                                                                                                         nj
                                                                                  To                                                                                                                   Pa
                                                                                Baghlan                                                                                                   16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33493R1
                                                                                                                                                                                     Ishkashim


                                                                                            AF GHA NISTA N                                                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
MARCH 2013




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information

                                                                                                                                                                                                          PAKISTAN                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                            68°E                                                                       70°E                                                                      72°E                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
