 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14638

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/29/2015

               Country: Tajikistan
             Project ID: P098889                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Cotton Sector                Project Costs (US$M):                       15                14.48
                         Recovery Project
  L/C Number:            C4314                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                        15                14.48
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural       Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                 09/28/2007
                                                               Closing Date:             03/31/2013          03/31/2013
         Sector(s):       Agro-industry (52%); Central government administration (34%); Crops (7%); Other social
                          services (5%); Agricultural extension and research (2%)
         Theme(s):        Other rural development (33% - P); Rural policies and institutions (33% - P); Rural services
                          and infrastructure (17% - S); Rural markets (17% - S)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Christopher David       Christopher David         IEGPS1
                          Nelson                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of May 4, 2007 (p.5) and the Finance Agreement of June 29,
    2007 (p.4) the project development objective (PDO) was “to improve the livelihood of cotton farmers and create
    the conditions for sustainable growth of cotton production in selected, low income areas of Tajikistan, through
    debt resolution, an improved policy environment, and increased cotton output and profitability.”

    During a restructuring of the project on February 9, 2010 the original PDO was revised to “benefit cotton farmers
    and create the conditions for sustainable growth of cotton production in low income areas of Tajikistan through an
    improved policy environment and better access to finance.” (Restructuring Paper p.3)


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 02/09/2010

c. Components:

    The project originally contained four components:

    Component 1: Debt Resolution (appraisal estimate US $ 2.90 million; actual is zero). This component was to
    finance the development of a rule-based mechanism for debt repayment by: i) establishing a Debt Resolution
    Agency responsible for the repayment process and for providing farmers with information on debt resolution; and
    ii) establishing a Special Purpose Vehicle for payments by farmers.
   Component 2: Support for Policy Analysis and Reform (appraisal estimate US $ 0.7 million, actual US$ 0.7
   million, 100% disbursed). This component was to finance technical assistance for the government’s policy
   analysis, reform and impact analysis of policy decisions and project implementation.

   Component 3: Cotton Supply Chain Development (appraisal estimate US $ 9.8 million, actual is zero). This
   component was to finance: i) promoting foreign direct investment in ginneries in selected districts; ii) providing
   sub-credits to selected private sector agricultural businesses to finance modern seed processing equipment and
   provision of technical assistance, training; and iii) conducting a communication outreach to rural population.

   Component 4: Project Implementation (appraisal estimate US $ 1.4 million, actual US$ 1.01 million, 72.14%
   disbursed). This component was to finance project management by establishing a joint Project Implementation
   Unit for the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank to manage the implementation of the Cotton Sector
   Recovery Project and the Asian Development Bank’s Sustainable Cotton Sub-Sector Project.

   During the restructuring on February 9, 2010 an additional component was added. Component 1 and Component
   3 (promotion of foreign direct investment and cotton seed supply) were dropped. Funds ( a total of US$ 10.4
   million) were reallocated to the new Component 5. Component 2, Component 3 (farmer support program) and
   Component 4 were not changed.

   Component 5: Post-Harvest Finance (after restructuring US $ 12.9 million, actual US$ 12.77 million, 98.99%).
   This component was to finance the purchase of cotton seeds from farmers after the harvest season.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: The project was estimated to cost US$ 15 million. Actual cost was US$ 14.48 million (96.50% of
   appraisal estimate).

   Financing: The project was financed by a US$ 15 million IDA loan of which US$ 14.48 million (96.5%) was
   disbursed. According to the Operations Portal (at the US$ exchange rate of April 15, 2015) an undisbursed
   amount of US$ 750,017 was cancelled at closing.

   Borrower Contribution: There were no contributions by the borrower.

   Dates: On February 9, 2010 the project went through a level 1 restructuring to i) drop non-performing project
   activities and include a new component that took the current situation of the cotton sector into account and
   provided new opportunities; ii) modify the PDO; and iii) widen the regional coverage of the project.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Original Objective : High
   Revised Objective: High

   The original and revised objectives of the project were highly relevant given the importance of the cotton sector in
   Tajikistan. Between 1998 and 2004 agricultural growth accounted for one third of overall economic growth.
   During that time cotton accounted for 60% of agricultural output. However, since 2004 cotton production had
   been falling and cotton producers had been accumulating large amounts of debt (ICR p.1). The Government of
   Tajikistan asked the Bank to provide assistance in reforming its priority sector and the debt resolution process.
   Both, the original and revised objectives were in line with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
   (FY10-FY13) at the time which supported the government’s goal to diversify agricultural production (CAS, p. 3)
   and the National Development Agenda (2006-2015) which aims to reform the agricultural sector, improve the
   country’s productive capacity and decrease poverty in rural areas (CAS p. 17). In the National Development
   Agenda, the government made a commitment to limit its involvement in private sector activity.

   The original objective was simplified following the restructuring but remained highly relevant for the reasons
   outlined above.
b. Relevance of Design:

   Original Objective : Modest
   Revised Objective: Substantial

   The project design was relevant and built on the Bank’s experience in Tajikistan. It took recent sector work and
   lessons learned in this field from other countries into account and built these into its design. Both, the original
   and revised project designs were kept simple. However, there were weaknesses in the causal relationships
   between some of planned interventions and the project's objectives. The underlying assumptions about how
   these project activities would lead to intended outcomes was not logically or properly laid out and this led to some
   confusion in how the steps were presented. In addition, the objectives "to improve the livelihood of cotton
   farmers" and the one " to benefit cotton farmers" were not clearly specified, which made the attribution of project
   activities and outcomes towards project objectives difficult.

   The original activities included the establishment of a debt resolution agency and a de-linking of debt through a
   special purpose vehicle for farmers to make payments into. However, these activities were sensibly dropped
   during the restructuring given the changed circumstances. Activities to address shortcomings in the production,
   seed, processing and competition included the implementation of a support program for farmers, to foster foreign
   direct investment into ginneries and finance seed processing equipment for private sector companies. Both of
   these activities were also dropped during the restructuring to better reflect the realism of priority activities and the
   funds were reallocated to the purchase of cotton seeds from farmers. The restructured project also included
   activities to strengthen the government's policy analysis and provide support for the reform process.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Original PDO: To improve the livelihood of cotton farmers and create the conditions for sustainable growth of
   cotton production in selected, low income areas of Tajikistan, through debt resolution, an improved policy
   environment, and increased cotton output and profitability.

   Revised PDO: “To benefit cotton farmers and create the conditions for sustainable growth of cotton production in
   low income areas of Tajikistan through an improved policy environment and better access to finance.

   1. Improve the livelihood of cotton farmers : Modest
   Revised: Changed to "benefit cotton farmers ": Modest

   Outputs

        A revolving credit line for post-harvest finance for cotton and other agricultural products in selected project
         areas was established, meeting the target. This credit line was intended to facilitate forward contracting, with
         the new ginning enterprises providing cash advances to cotton producers to purchase farm inputs and meet
         other seasonal operating costs.
        Training to strengthen the capacity of participating financial institutions was provided.

   Outcomes

        2,300 cotton formers had access to the newly established revolving fund, surpassing the target of 2,200
         farmers.
        The two main participating financial institutions provided over 200 loans for different agricultural activities
         including cotton and grain production and livestock farming. This indicates that farmers, who otherwise might
         not have been able to produce agricultural products, were able to do so with access to financing.
        Approximately 41,000 (22.7%) hectares under cotton cultivation completed debt resolution, not meeting the
         target of 180,000 hectares (75%). This indicator was dropped during the restructuring.

   While a number of the targets were achieved, the lack of sufficient data to validate whether the livelihood of
   cotton farmers was improved makes it difficult to suitably address the attribution of the project. While the
   restructure lowered the intention of this objective to 'benefiting farmers', there is still inadequate data to show how
   this was to be measured and thus IEG rates the achievement of this project's objective as modest both before
   and after the restructure.

   2. Create the conditions for sustainable growth of cotton production : Substantial
   Revised: Substantial
    Outputs

        To support the agriculture and cotton sector development program, the government passed one decree and
         two resolutions on additional measures (No. 663, No. 406 and No. 586). Also, policy measures were taken
         which favored free producer choice and competitive markets for both the buying and processing of cotton.
         These policy measures included the elimination of export licenses, the introduction of the universal standard
         for cotton classification, the adoption of decrees to write off farmers’ debt, and the elimination of direct
         intervention by local authorities.
        Institutional arrangements for the implementation of the reform process were made. An agricultural reform
         secretary was established under the deputy prime minister and six working groups on reformation of the
         branches/departments of the ministries and agencies were established.
        For the monitoring of the impact of policy reforms and other project activities, three annual analyses were
         conducted, meeting the target.
        In order to address challenges related to the reform and development of different sectors of the agricultural
         industry, 15 policy briefs were prepared and distributed, surpassing the target of 10 policy briefs. Also, 10
         policy workshops and seminars were conducted, meeting the target.

    Outcomes

    Policy changes resulted in several outcomes:

        In 2009 about US$548 million was written off from cotton farm debt to support reforms and advance the
         freedom of farmers in terms of choosing their financing source and to extend land for cotton cultivation.
        Farmers became free to farm. While in 2011, only 24% of farmers could freely choose if they wanted to
         process cotton plants, this increased to 99% of beneficiaries in 2013.
        Since competition between grinneries increased and farmers had better access to finance profitability of the
         agriculture sector improved. Between 22,000 and 25,000 farmers achieved prices greater than 80% of the
         world market price, surpassing the target of 20,000 farmers. 95.2% of cotton output was sold at 80% of
         comparable world market levels, surpassing the target of 75%.

    The ICR does not comment precisely on how outreach and awareness programs were linked to the two
    objectives. However, the following activities can be linked to notions of sustainable growth and were implemented
    to develop a long term foundation for cotton sector production improvements. The following activities were
    implemented:

        Seven public awareness campaigns to support cotton producers were carried out in Khatlon region,
         surpassing the target of six campaigns. The ICR does not provide any more details on, for example themes,
         of these campaigns.
        6,800 rural people, including 2,145 women benefited from public awareness programs, not achieving the
         target of 15,000 rural people. 10,120 rural people, including women, benefited from community outreach
         programs, not achieving the target of 13,000 rural people. 5,251 rural people, including women, benefited
         from farmer extension programs, surpassing the target of 4,000 rural people.
        80 trainers were trained to implement community outreach and farmer extension programs in project
         districts, meeting the target.


5. Efficiency:

    Modest: During appraisal the Bank conducted an Economic and Financial Analyses. The benefits and costs for
    two scenarios “with” and “without” the project were estimated. The analysis assumed a discount rate of 12%.
    The Economic Rate of Return was estimated at 47.3%, the Financial Rate of Return was 49.1% and the Net
    Present Value was US$ 41 million. The ICR does not provide any details on how these values were derived.

    While the section on Efficiency in the ICR provides a large amount of information on the impact and the
    effectiveness of the project, it does not provide information on the cost benefit of project activities, including
    Economic Rates of Return, Financial Rates of Return, Net Present Values or the efficient use of project funds.

    The ICR measures financial profitability of the project through the net return over cotton production and financing
    costs. The net margin of cotton farmers per hectare increased from US$ 41 to US$ 124 and the rate of return on
    costs increased from 17% to 26% between 2008 and 2013. However, the ICR does not provide information on
    the origins of this data and how these results were derived. Given the lack of information and lack of clarity how
    values were derived, efficiency is rated modest.
a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       Yes                                      47.3%                                    100%
   ICR estimate                    No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   The project’s outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory. This rating is based on a calculation according to the ICR
   guidelines Appendix B. At the time of restructuring, US$1.46 million was disbursed, which was 10% of the total
   credit (US$14.5 million). After the restructuring, an additional US$13.05 million was disbursed, which was 90% of
   the total credit. The project outcome before restructuring was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory based on high
   relevance of objective, modest relevance of design, modest efficacy on the first objective and substantial efficacy
   on the second and modest efficiency. The project outcome after the restructuring was Moderately Satisfactory
   based on high relevance of objective, substantial relevance of design, modest efficacy on the first objective,
   substantial efficacy on the second and modest efficiency. A numeric value was assigned for each of the outcome
   ratings, for Moderately Unsatisfactory 3 and Moderately Satisfactory 4, on the 6 point scale. Multiplying the
   percentage of the credit (10.0%), which was disbursed by the time of the restructuring with the numeric value of 3
   results in a value of 0.3. Multiplying the percentage of the credit (90.0%), which was disbursed after the
   restructuring, with the numeric value of 4 results in a value of 3.6. Adding these values together results in the
   value of 3.9 which based on the achievements elsewhere has been rated Moderately Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Despite initial reluctance, the government is committed to continue its work in the agricultural sector. Institutional
   capacity has been built at all different stages of the cotton production. The six sectoral working groups are well
   coordinated and supported by donors. Also, the project worked closely and developed relationships with different
   administrative divisions and local Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), which will support the sustainability
   of the project. The project has reduced financial risks due to a reduction of the farmers’ debt, the farmers’ ability
   to make free decision and the provision of training to farmers. Also, the Project will be followed on by the
   Tajikistan Agriculture Commercialization Project (P132652) which will scale up activities that have been
   implemented in the CSRP and other previous Bank projects. However, there is a risk related to loan repayment
   to the Participating Financial Institutions since they have been experiencing delays in the repayment by client
   ginneries. Poor risk management and highly risk adverse ginneries represent a major challenge to the
   sustainability of the post-harvest finance activities.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project was aligned with previous Bank projects in the sector and took experience from other countries in
   and outside the region into account in formulating the design. The Bank team built appropriate partnerships
   with key development partners during the design process. The original PDO might have been too ambitious
   and did not sufficiently address the government’s reluctance to reform the agricultural sector, but the team
   had an adaptable design that allowed for incremental pressure that eventually made progress.

   The Bank designed a baseline survey in order to measure the project’s impact and provided the basis for
   follow-up monitoring. The ICR states (p. 4) that the Bank identified risks related to feasibility, timing, resource
   requirements, stakeholder acceptance of the suggested debt reform, and minimizing the negative impact on
   the financial banking system and rural welfare. However, the ICR does not comment on how these risks were
   mitigated and to what extent these efforts were successful.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   At the beginning of project implementation the Bank worked closely with the government and the International
   Monetary Fund (IMF) on different potential options for resolving the challenging cotton debt issue. The Bank
   performed candid assessments on the progress towards the PDO as shown at the beginning of the project
   when the PDO was downgraded from “satisfactory” to “unsatisfactory” and implementation progress from
   “satisfactory” to “moderately unsatisfactory”. The Bank appropriately supervised environmental safeguards,
   procurement and financial management issues. The Bank also provided intense support to the PMU to
   establish work and budget plans and identified an action plan for potential problems. The Bank ensured that
   adequate transition arrangements were in place through the Revolving Credit Fund and a follow-on project
   (the Tajikistan Agriculture Commercialization Project – P132652).



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government requested the Bank’s assistance to address the country’s cotton debt crisis. However, the
   government lacked ownership and commitment to the original project and was not ready to make the
   necessary policy changes which the project required. The government did not create an enabling
   environment for the original PDO to be achieved. This initial lack of reform led to a worsening of the debt
   crisis and macroeconomic instability. However, following the restructuring of the project the government
   demonstrated its commitment to the reform of the agricultural sector and passed the necessary legislation to
   foster competition in the cotton market and encourage investments in the sector to increase productivity and
   incomes of farmers. The government has also committed to the implementation of a follow-on project, the
   Tajikistan Agriculture Commercialization Project to scale up activities emerging from this first project and to
   ensure further growth in the agricultural sector.


  Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   According to the ICR, the establishment of the Project Management Unit (PMU) faced some difficulties
   related to procurement and financial management. The ICR does not comment in detail on what kind of
   challenges and how they were addressed by the PMU. Having said that, the PMU worked closely with the
   Bank on the baseline study and on the establishment of annual targets. At the end of 2010, the project
   management rating was downgraded from “satisfactory” to “moderately satisfactory” due to the resignation of
   some key staff including the M&E specialist. However, the PMU turned this around and ensured that the
   post-harvest credit lines started on time and the monitoring of project activities was conducted.

   The ICR does not comment on the adequacy of beneficiary and stakeholder consultations, the adequacy of
   M&E arrangements, the utilization of M&E data in decision making, nor about resource allocation and the
   timely resolution of implementation issues. But it does explain that the PMU made adequate transition
   arrangements to ensure the financial sustainability and transition to the self-financing of Training and
   Information Centers, which were established under the project.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory
  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The original Results Framework of the project included one PDO indicator and ten key performance indicators.
   During the restructuring of the project the PDO indicator was revised and the key performance indicators were
   changed accordingly. The new four key performance indicators reflected the new objective, were measurable in
   terms of numbers, timing and location to analyze progress towards the PDO. The original and revised objectives
   were clearly specified. The causal chain between input and outcomes was clear.

   The M&E included a baseline survey in 2007/2008 and a follow-up survey in 2008. The baseline survey focused
   on two areas: i) the impact of the project on rural poverty; and ii) the impact of the project on cotton production,
   profitability, market behavior of cotton investors and local government interventions. The proposed data collection
   methods and analysis, which was based on annual and semi-annual performance, were appropriate.

   The ICR does not comment to what extent the M&E design was embedded institutionally and whether it had
   sufficient stakeholder ownership.


b. M&E Implementation:

   Due to the resignation of the M&E specialist, the post-harvest activities were not closely monitored and the
   project’s M&E rating was downgraded from “satisfactory” to “moderately satisfactory” in June 2010. However, the
   PMU tried to continue to perform M&E activities and identified the violation of the established fund transfer
   process to ginneries instead of directly to farmers. The rating was upgraded to “satisfactory” again in November
   2011 since a new M&E specialist was hired.

   The ICR does not comment on to what extent the M&E was owned by the various stakeholders, if the system
   implemented is sustainable and if the data collected was reliable and of good quality. Also, the ICR does not
   provide any information on if the PMU performed the M&E function efficiently.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The M&E system developed into an electronic system and measured outcomes and was actively used by the
   PMU to track indicators and progress towards the PDOs. Regular field trips were conducted to monitor the cotton
   production, cotton prices, credit disbursements and repayment.


M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was rated as environmental category B under OP 4.01 due to the increased use of agricultural
   pesticides and the operation of ginning plants. The ICR (p. 7) states that these issues were addressed through an
   Environmental Management Plan which included training in agro-chemical use and pest management. THe ICR
   claims that all activities of the Plan were implemented satisfactorily. Special Environmental Action Plans were
   developed for seven ginneries which participated in the post-harvest credit line.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management : Financial management was rated moderately satisfactory through most of the project
     implementation. Financial management, internal control and audit reports were submitted to the Bank
     satisfactorily. The project encountered some shortcomings in the implementation of the updated 1C accounting
     software. The ICR does not comment how these shortcomings were addressed. The audit report was delayed in
     2011 since the responsibility of selecting the auditor was transferred to the State Committee on Investment. Due
     to poor financial management and procurement practices, at the ginnery level lead to delays in the repayment of
     loans to the Participating Financial Institutions. The Bank addressed this issue by providing recommendations.
     The ICR does not comment on the adequacy of planning and budgeting, flow of funds arrangements or if the
     external auditor’s opinion was qualified. At the end of the project, financial management was rated “satisfactory”.

     Procurement: The project experienced delays in procurement in late 2010 due to the resignation of the
     Procurement Specialist. The new specialist worked closely with the Bank’s in-country procurement specialist. At
     the ginnery level, loan repayments to Participating Financial Institutions were delayed due to poor financial
     management and procurement. The ICR does not comment on how these delays were addressed. According to
     the ICR, the project generally complied with the Bank’s procurement rules.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

     The project also had a positive impact on the production, yields, and income of cotton farmers in areas outside
     the region the project focused on due to broad policy and regulatory changes in the agricultural sector.


d. Other:

No


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately          There were moderate shortcomings
                                                            Satisfactory        with regard to the adequate tracking
                                                                                and progress against the 'benefits'
                                                                                expected for farmers under objective 1
                                                                                and the approach taken to measuring
                                                                                project efficiency required further detail.

          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately          The original PDO might have been too
                                                            Satisfactory        ambitious and the Bank did not
                                                                                sufficiently address the government’s
                                                                                reluctance to reform the agricultural
                                                                                sector.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR (p. 23) identifies several lessons, including the following highly relevant two:

1. Providing all different actors with information is useful for increasing competition. In this project the PMU
   provided all associations and farmers with world market cotton prices on a daily basis. This gave farmers more
   knowledge and increased competition which contributed to farmers receiving cotton prices close to world
   market prices.
2. Engagement with all relevant stakeholders and partners is essential when a wide sectoral reform is needed.
   The Bank worked closely with the Asian Development Bank and the International Monetary Fund which
   allowed for the implementation of several complementary projects and therefore address the challenges more
   effectively.

Lesson learned identified by IEG:

1. It is important to build consensus between the Bank and the Borrower on the objectives of a project prior to its
   implementation. In this instance such prior consensus might have prevented the necessity for a more
   ambitious reform of the agricultural sector and the implementation of the original project objectives.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


     The ICR provides a good overview of the project and is concise. However, the ICR could have gone into more
    detail in critical areas such as how the risks, identified during project preparation, were mitigated and to what
    extent these efforts were successful. Also the ICR only provides very limited information on M&E implementation
    and utilization and performance of the implementation agency. The ICR is not a stand alone document and often
    refers to other documents for additional information. The ICR measures project results towards PDO indicators
    rather than toward the achievement of the PDO. The efficiency analysis of the ICR does not provide sufficient
    details on the origin of data and how certain results were derived. Also the efficiency section in the annex refers
    to a more detailed analysis in the annex which is not included in the ICR. The section on "lessons learned" is
    quite weak.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
