Report No. PIC4351
Project Name                     Tunisia-Second Municipal(@+)
Development Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Urban Development
Project ID                       TNPA46832
Borrower                         Government of Tunisia
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Interior (MOI) and CPSCL
Contact                          M. Mjeri, Director-General, Caisse de
Prets et de Soutien des Collectivites
Locales (CPSCL)
Tunis, Tunisia..
Tel. 216.1.797.097
Fax. 216.1.797.467
Date initial PID prepared        September 1996
Date this update prepared        February 1997
Project Appraisal date           February 1997
Project Board date               June 1997
Country and sector background.
1.      During the Eighth Plan (1992-1996), the Tunisian Government
promoted, as part of the macroeconomic reform program, the
rationalization of public sector management and the development of
the municipal sector. However, Tunisia still has a highly
centralized administration. To further promote municipal and
regional development, the Government of Tunisia (GoT) will have to
find a balance among intergovernmental powers and strengthen the
management capacity of local governments (LGs). On December 12,
1996, the Code de la fiscalite locale was approved by the
Parliament. This reform of the local tax system (property tax,
business tax, hotel tax, and others), prepared under the MIP, aims
at simplifying, rationalizing, and eliminating major distortions in
the local taxation system and across municipalities. Its effective
implementation will have a limited but positive impact on LG
budgets (10-15 percent increase in revenues, including additional
revenues due to expected improvements in recovery rates).
Furthermore, the existing system of revenue transfers from the
central budget to the local budgets needs to be reformed in order
to play a more important equalization role and help poorer
communities to reach minimum standards of infrastructure and
services.
Project Objectives and Description



2.      The objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) enhance
infrastructure and services in Tunisian local governments (LG); and
(b) increase efficiency of public sector management at the local
level. These objectives will contribute to the long-term goals of
municipal and regional development that the Tunisian Government
(GoT), with the help of the World Bank, initiated with the
Municipal Investment Project (MIP) and will be pursuing with the
proposed project and future projects. Such objectives will be
achieved by focusing, in particular, on: (a) financing, through a
credit line to the Caisse de prets et de soutien des collectivites
locales (CPSCL) part of the Programme d'investissement communal
(PIC) which include investment priorities for LGs, to be carried
out during the Ninth Plan (1997-2001); (b) strengthening the
financial viability and management of CPSCL; (c) (i) strengthening
LGs' finances through implementation of the local taxation reform,
and targeting the finances of poorer LGs by increasing the
equalization role of the system of transfers from the central
budget; (ii) promoting efficiency in the administration of LGs, and
in the management and supervision capabilities of the Direction
generale des collectivites publiques et locales (DGCPL, part of
MoI) and the Direction generale des affaires regionales (DGAR, part
of MoI); (d) strengthening the role of the Training Center for LG
staff; (e) improving the quality of life for mostly disadvantaged
neighborhoods and increasing involvement of communities in
microprojects for local development; and (f) facilitating private
participation, particularly in solid waste management (SWM).
3.      Components will include: (a) a credit line to CPSCL to
finance priority municipal investments and microprojects; (b)
training, technical assistance, and equipment to strengthen CPSCL
management; (c) training, technical assistance, and equipment to
improve management of LGs, DGCPL, DGAR; (d) technical assistance
and equipment for Training Center; (e) technical assistance and
equipment for community participation programs; and (f) advisory
services for private participation in municipal services. The
project will target local governments, rural councils, regional
councils, neighborhood associations, low-income populations
targeted by low-income neighborhood upgrading programs within the
PIC.
Implementation
4.      The borrower will be GoT, which will on-lend to CPSCL. MoI
will have overall responsibility for project coordination. CPSCL
will be responsible for evaluating and financing LGs' investments,
following eligibility criteria for subprojects and subborrowers
satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Cost and Financing
5.      The total project cost is currently estimated at US$219.2
million, with a Bank loan tentatively placed at US$80 million.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
-2-



6.      The Second Municipal Development Project will contribute to
the Bank's country assistance objective of strengthening public
sector management and provision of infrastructure and services. By
enhancing infrastructure in underequipped areas, the project will
help diffuse gains from economic growth and reduce regional
disparities. By upgrading further LGs' human resources and
introducing information technologies and cost-accounting practices
in LGs' administration, it will improve efficiency in the
management of LGs' operations. Furthermore, by improving CPSCL
financial intermediation and LGs' revenue mobilization and
allocation it will promote the decentralization process and
increase autonomy of LGs.
Project Sustainability
7.      The implementation of the following measures, including those
improving LGs' revenues, should generate a sustainable mechanism
for project financing and implementation of the LG investment
programs: (a) increasing managerial efficiency of LGs (introduction
of a cost accounting system, design and implementation of municipal
data bank systems, computerization of the local fiscal system, and
improved qualification of human resources); (b) introduction of
appropriate cost recovery schemes (i.e., user fees) for municipal
services; and (c) further strengthening of CPSCL financial
viability.
Contact Point: Ms. L. Raimondo, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997
- 3 -



Annex
Environmental Assessment
CPSCL has made constant improvements in its internal
procedures under MIP to achieve an effective environmental
screening process. Recently it adopted a checklist of environmental
impacts for large urban projects, to identify activities that
require mitigation. It intends to expand this screening checklist
approach for additional large projects. CPSCL also routinely
requires that summary evaluations of environmental impacts be
prepared for basic municipal infrastructure subprojects (e.g.,
roads, sidewalks) which constitute the majority of subprojects.
CPSCL usually finances these types of projects without any formal
approval by the Tunisia environmental regulatory agency, the Agence
nationale de protection de l'environnement (ANPE). For certain pre-
identified projects (solid waste, slaughterhouses, wholesale food
markets), as specified in the Tunisian regulations on environmental
impact assessment, more extensive environmental impact studies are
required as part of the technical studies. These environmental
impact studies must be submitted to ANPE for review and approval
before CPSCL finances the subproject. For the Municipal Investment
Project, these procedures ensured adequate screening to manage the
environmental risks associated with the subprojects.
During appraisal for the Second Municipal Development Project
(MDP II), CPSCL will agree to upgrade its approach to the
environmental review of subprojects, to more systematically manage
the environmental risks of a larger volume of more complex
subprojects. Since the environmental legislation and regulations
are adequate in Tunisia, the main objective will be to ensure that
subprojects comply with Tunisian laws and regulations. The
principle tool for review will be an environmental review manual,
which will become an annex to CPSCL's operations procedures manual.
During pre-appraisal, several environmental assessment (EA)
reports for proposed landfills were reviewed; to facilitate
effective implementation, additional work is recommended on the EA
reports. To allow solid waste landfills to be eligible for Bank
financing under MDP II, the Bank will seek agreement with CPSCL on
the special conditions for approval of the EAs. Once the review is
completed and any recommended revisions completed, each EA report
will be approved by ANPE, and then forwarded to the Bank for
review. After a no objection is issued by the Bank for each
report, disbursements for the landfills will be approved.
- 4 -



