                                          Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 27503

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (SCL-42020)

                                            ON A

                                            LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF FRF 452,800,000

       TO THE CAISSE DES PRETS ET DE SOUTIEN DES COLLECTIVITES LOCALES


                   WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                    FOR A SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                        December 29, 2003




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2003)

                               Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
                                        TD1 = US$ 0.7846
                                       US$ 1 = TD 1.2745

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    -December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD     Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
ARRU    Agence de réhabilitation et de rénovation urbaine (Urban Upgrading and Regeneration
        Agency)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CNPRCRM Centre National de Perfectionnement et de Recyclage des Cadres Régionaux et
        Municipaux (National Training Center for Regional and Municipal Staff)
CPSCL   Caisse des prêts et de soutien des collectivités locales (Municipal Development Agency)
CROP    Commission régionale d'orientation du programme (Regional Commission for program
        orientation)
CQ      Comité de quartier (neighborhood committee)
DGAR    Direction générale des affaires régionales (Directorate General for Regional Affairs)
DGCPL   Direction générale des collectivités publiques locales (Directorate General for Local
        Governments)
DO      Development Objectives
EA      Economic Analysis
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EME     Equipe municipale élargie ( extended municipal team)
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FCCL    Fonds commun des collectivités locales (Local Governments Common Fund)
ICB     International Competitive Buidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GoT     Government of Tunisia
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
LG      Local Government
MDP     Municipal Development Project
ME      Ministry of Environment
MIP     Municipal Investment Project
MIS     Management Information System
MoF     Ministry of Finance
MoI     Ministry of Interior
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Nongovernmental Organization
NPV     Net Present Value
NS      National Shopping
O&M     Operations and Maintenance
PDUI    Programme de Développement Urbain Integré ( Program of Integrated Urban

        Development)
PIC     Programme d'investissement communal (Municipal Investment Program)
PNAQP   Programme National d'assainissement des quartiers populaires (National Program for
        Sewage Connection of Low-Income Neighborhoods)
PNRQP   Programme national de réhabilitation des quartiers populaires (National Program for
        Rehabilitation of Low-Income Neighborhoods)
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
TCL     Taxe sur les établissements à caractère industriel, commercial ou professionnel (
        professional tax)
TH      Taxe hôtelière (hotel tax)
TIB     Taxe sur les immeubles bâtis (built property tax)
TNB     Taxe sur les immeubles non-bâtis (non-built property tax)

                             Vice President:    Christiaan Poortman
                           Country Director     Theodore O.Ahlers
                            Sector Manager      Emmanuel Forrestier
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Sateh El-Arnaout

                                                TUNISIA
                                      TN-MUNICIPAL DEV. II


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
     1. Project Data                                                                    1
     2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
     3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
     4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
     5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
     6. Sustainability                                                                14
     7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
     8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
     9. Partner Comments                                                              17
     10. Additional Information                                                       18
     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
     Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
     Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
     Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
     Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
     Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
     Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Map: IBRD No. 23566R1

Project ID: P046832                                                  Project Name: TN-MUNICIPAL DEV. II
Team Leader: Sateh Chafic El-Arnaout                                 TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: TN-MUNICIPAL DEV. II                                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-42020
   Country/Department: TUNISIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Housing finance and real estate markets (32%); General
                            transportation sector (32%); General water, sanitation and flood
                            protection sector (31%); Central government administration (4%);
                            Sub-national government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Municipal finance (P);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (P); Other urban
                            development (S); Other financial and private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/28/1996                                     Effective: 11/01/1997                01/22/1998
     Appraisal: 02/17/1997                                         MTR: 06/30/2000                  07/15/2000
      Approval: 06/24/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          CPSCL/CPSCL/MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Daniel Ritchie
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Forestier                             Amir Al-Khafaji
Team Leader at ICR:             Sateh El-Arnaout                               Laura Raimondo
ICR Primary Author:             Ekaterina Massey


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:
No QAG ratings

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in the PAD, the project objectives were to: (a) enhance infrastructure and services in Tunisian local
governments (LGs); and (b) increase efficiency of public sector management at the local level.

The development objectives (DOs) and the design of the project need to be assessed in the context of their
contribution to the implementation of the long-term strategy of municipal and regional development in Tunisia.
The strategy aims at increasing the local quality of life through provision of infrastructure and basic services, and
creating the enabling institutional environment for municipal and regional development. The Bank has been
supporting the government through several consecutive projects: Municipal Sector Investment Project (MIP),
1992-1998, the Second Municipal Development Project (MDP II), 1998-2003, and the on-going Third Municipal
Development Project (MDP III), effective June 23, 2003.

The MIP, being the Bank's sixth urban development loan to Tunisia, was the first operation to directly support
local governments (LGs). The project successfully achieved the objectives of enhancing the efficiency of local and
regional governments with respect to resource mobilization and allocation, and project financing and
implementation. The proceeds of the loan were quickly committed and disbursed and the MIP closed 16 months
earlier than initially scheduled. The capacity of local staff improved through an efficient training program
implemented by a Training Center (CNPRCRM) created in 1995. The municipal financial intermediary (CPSCL)
evolved from a cashier's window to a semi-public agency and provided financial and technical support to
municipalities. The law on local taxation, enacted in January 1997, initiated rationalization and simplification of
the local taxation system.

The    MDP II was designed in 1997, during the advanced stage of the MIP implementation. The MDP II
development objectives were the broad objectives of the long-term strategy of the municipal sector development.
Those were to be achieved by focusing on a set of interrelated activities: realizing the Municipal Investment
Program (PIC) defined under the Ninth Plan 1997-2001; strengthening the financial viability and management of
the CPSCL; strengthening of LGs finances through the implementation of the new local taxation law approved
under MIP project; increasing the equalization role of the system of transfers from the central budget through
reform of the Local Governments Fund (FCCL); strengthening the management efficiency of LGs and the
responsible oversight departments in the Ministry of Interior (MoI); strengthening the Training Center            for
Municipal Staff (CNPRCRM); involving communities through micro-projects for local development; facilitating
private participation in service delivery, especially in solid waste management (SWM).

The project objectives were clear and highly relevant to Tunisian development priorities and to the agreed strategy
of municipal sector development. The project design internalized lessons learned in the implementation of MIP,
particularly the need to implement the municipal sector reforms gradually, and tackle both, the financial (adequate
financing mechanism) and managerial (operationally efficient LGs), sides of municipal development process,
adapted to the context of the present highly centralized and non-market driven municipal finance system in
Tunisia.

The project set out to make a significant contribution to assisting municipalities make efficient capital investments
and provide infrastructure and basic services to the majority of their residents. The municipalities were to benefit
from the technical and financial assistance by the CPSCL in project design, implementation and evaluation.
Economic and financial analysis and environmental impact assessments of projects were to be conducted according
to constantly improving operating procedures of CPSCL. The project committed to accompany the municipalities
in financing the most critically needed municipal investments into construction, upgrading, rehabilitation and
maintenance of urban infrastructure, green and recreational areas, commercial and neighborhood facilities, and
solid waste collection, disposal and treatment. The project also supported municipal share in upgrading of
low-income areas within the national programs of integrated urban development and of rehabilitation of
low-income neighborhoods (PDUI and PNAQP). The estimated cost of physical components amounted to US$213
million, and represented a third of the total forecast PIC investments for 1997-2001.




                                                          - 2 -

The institutional part of the project included a wide range of sector evaluation studies and preparatory activities for
improving current management practices. Specifically, the government requested Bank's assistance to explore
ways to improve financial management practices and tools, evaluate LG performance, and to broaden and update
the sector knowledge and municipal databases. As in the preceding MIP project, the institutional strengthening
was expected to simultaneously address the needs of the three key sector stakeholders: the municipal financial
intermediary (CPSCL); the local governments together with their training facility; and the oversight authorities
within the Ministry of Interior (MoI).

However, despite clear development objectives and a large number of sector evaluation activities to be delivered by
the project, monitoring of the project itself was not designed properly. Key performance indicators were chosen to
predominantly measure outputs and not impacts of the project. The only impact indicator, "rate of recovery of
direct tax roll to increase from 50 to 70 percent by the end of the project", was measuring the anticipated impact of
the 1997 tax reform and not the impact of the project's activities. In retrospective, project monitoring was not
instrumental in helping prioritize critical sector issues to most effectively achieve the development objectives and
correct some of project design flaws, described below in section 3.5.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had five components. The credit line to CPSCL to finance municipal and micro-projects accounted for
96.8 percent of the project cost. Four other components, representing 3.2 percent of the original project cost, were
technical assistance and equipment for sector institutions.

Component 1: Credit line to CPSCL to finance priority municipal investments and micro-projects (US$ 213.0
million, 96.8 percent of project cost, implemented by CPSCL, with the sub-projects implemented by the individual
municipalities). A credit line of US$ 73.9 million equivalent was open to CPSCL with the guarantee of the GoT to
provide loans to eligible beneficiaries for municipal infrastructure subprojects, most of which were part of the
approved program of municipal investments (PIC) under the Ninth Plan (1997-2001) and for micro-projects,
defined as a small project of urban environmental improvement or social development. This component directly
supported the first DO of enhancing infrastructure and services provision by municipalities and regional councils,
as it contributed to satisfying demand for the priority local urban and rural infrastructure investments. The
component supported the second development objective insofar as it contributed to the improving project
implementation capacity of the Tunisian local governments.

Component 2: Training, technical assistance, and equipment to strengthen CPSCL management (US$ 1.4
million, 0.6 percent of project cost, implemented by CPSCL). The component was designed to support (a) creation
of CPSCL local offices (organizational study and office supplies and vehicles); (b) training program for staff in
administrative, technical and financial management of sub-projects and use of new operational tools; (c) a study
aiming at improving CPSCL functional procedures, including data management, (d) a study aiming at improving
appraisal, supervision and post-evaluation of sub-projects, including proposal for creation of a new unit for
supervision and post-evaluation, and (d) a strategic study to assess the feasibility of CPSCL transformation into a
specialized autonomous and commercially viable financial institution. This component supported both
development objectives by increasing efficiency and sustainability of the main municipal public financing and
advisory    institution, a key element in the Tunisian system of financing and implementing of municipal
infrastructure projects.

Component 3: Training, technical assistance and equipment to improve management of LGs, Directorate for
Local Governments (DGCPL) and Directorate General for Regional Affairs (DGAR) (US$1.9 million, 0.8
percent of project cost, implemented by MoI).
This component was designed to implement an institutional plan aimed at strengthening management capacity at
the LG level through better equipment and computerized systems; and through better means to monitor local




                                                          - 3 -

government efficiency by the direct oversight directorates in the MoI. DGCPL was responsible for (a) a study of the
most appropriate cost accounting technique, (b) a study of the possibility of a budgetary and accounting
nomenclature, (c) extending the existing municipal database to human resources and improve the recruitment
policy accordingly; (d) pursue computerization of LGs in financial management, cost accounting and stock
management; and (e) improve LGs organization, based on pilot studies selected for size. DGAR was responsible
for (a) a study of the efficiency of the rural councils, (b) a study of the development of neighborhood committees
(CQs); (c) strengthen the rural councils through purchase of office supplies and equipment; training of rural
council representatives and preparation or rural councils; (d) implementation of a computerized master plan for the
governorates and the DGAR. MoI was responsible for (a) a feasibility study for the creation of a Decentralization
Research Center. DGCPL together with the Ministry of Environment was responsible for launching advisory
services on facilitation of private sector participation in solid waste management (SWM).            This component
supported the achievement of the second development objective.

Component 4: Technical Assistance and Equipment for Training Center (US$3.8 million, 1.7 percent of project
cost, implemented by MoI). The component was designed to finance the expansion of the Training Center: its
training program and its premises. The component also included preparing a strategic study and an evaluation of
center activities. This component supported the achievement of the second development objective.

Component 5: Technical assistance and equipment for community participation programs (US$ 0.2million,
0.1 percent of project cost, implemented by CPSCL and MoI). The component was designed to be implemented in
two stages, the launching of the second stage being contingent on the positive assessments of the results achieved
in the first stage. The community projects for the amount of about US$ 4 million were to be implemented in a
participatory manner under supervision by CPSCL. The component included training and capacity strengthening
activities for the extended municipal teams (EMEs) and regional commissions for program orientation (CROPs)
implemented by DGCPL. This component supported the achievement of both development objectives, as it assisted
the various level of stakeholders involve local population into the improvement of local quality of life.

3.4 Revised Components:
Components 3 and 4 were slightly revised during project implementation. The revisions did not imply changes in
the loan agreement, as no cancellations were made. Instead, unused funds were reallocated to component 1
(priority municipal infrastructure projects).

Component 3.Training, technical assistance and equipment to improve management of LGs, Directorate for
Local Governments (DGCPL) and Directorate General for Regional Affairs (DGAR).                              During
implementation, this component experienced numerous delays due to three main reasons: 1) inadequate
preparation; 2) non-robust project management arrangements; 3) inadequate Bank and GoT supervision. The bulk
of the planned activities started too late in the project implementation, and therefore, were limited in scope to
delivering sector evaluation and recommendations. The latter will be discussed, validated, and implemented in the
follow-up MDP III project. A feasibility study for the creation of a Decentralization Research Center was dropped.
Advisory services on facilitation of private sector participation in solid waste management (SWM) were cancelled
as many LGs had already contracted out SWM to the private sector. Instead, a study was conducted to evaluate the
experience of pilot SWM privatizations and propose an action plan to address the main bottlenecks. The 2 studies
(evaluation of training activities, and preparation of recruitment plans) were replaced by the 2 other studies,
deemed as more of a priority (introduction of municipal project supervision system, and human resource
management studies).

Component 4.Technical Assistance and Equipment for Training Center (CNPRCRM). The component was
designed to assist the growing Center and the main activities were retained and implemented: (a) support to the
Center expanded training program, (b) an evaluation of the Center activities; and (c) a strategic study to improve
the program and Center management. However, to make the component more cost-effective and focused, the
physical expansion of the center was dropped.

The changes in the components, described above, either eliminated some of the non-priority or less relevant




                                                          - 4 -

activities, or reflected delays in activity completion. Since the follow-up project became effective prior to the
project closure, some of the delayed studies will be seamlessly completed and funded by the follow-up project,
having similar development objectives. No formal restructuring took place as the reallocations were small (under
5% of project cost) and non-substantial.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The overall quality at entry at the ICR stage is rated as satisfactory.

The overall satisfactory project's quality at entry is a result of netting out the more and the less satisfactory project
design assessments. The project's quality at entry is satisfactory in relation to the choice of development objectives,
choice of benefits and target population; institutional focus, and implementation arrangements. The project's
quality at entry was, however, only partially satisfactory with regards to preparation of institutional project
components (realism and focus); design of the mitigation measures for a correctly identified substantial project
risk, and choice of performance indicators and monitoring arrangements.

The project was consistent with the Government municipal sector development priorities and the CAS. The project
deepened the Bank-GoT municipal sector development cooperation, initiated by MIP. It supported GoT in its effort
to raise the standard of living of the population across the country through provision of basic infrastructure and
local services, through strengthening the sector institutions, and through increased participation in the process of
the local   population and the private sector. The project was directly contributing to the CAS objective of
strengthening public sector management and provision of infrastructure and services.

The project had tangible benefits and regionally balanced target population. The project aimed at reaching most
of 257 municipalities and 23 regional councils, including increased access to basic facilities for poorer
municipalities. It aimed at doing so through supporting programmatic municipal investments into public goods and
improving financing of local governments, adapted to the Tunisian context of highly centralized administration.
Local governments were expected to gain experience in being more responsive to the needs of their constituents
through designing and implementing participatory urban micro-projects.

The project aimed at consistent improvement of all critical sector institutions. The project aimed at improving the
capacity of all critical sector institutions: the municipalities, the municipal financial agency, the oversight
authorities and the municipal staff training facility. The CPSCL, entering its second stage of strategic transition to
become a catalytic institution for sector reform, was put at the center of the project as the Borrower, and supported
by the MoF commitment to foreign exchange risk guarantee, and a MoI commitment to use a share of the loan
funds to improve the efficiency of LGs performance.

The project implementation arrangements, as described in the PAD, were overall satisfactory. The project had a
good balance between physical and technical assistance components, between mainstream and pilot operations.
The implementation arrangements capitalized on the experience and investments made to set up and run an
efficient system of project management under the MIP. The CPSCL proved its capacity to efficiently evaluate and
finance the municipal projects, representing 96.5% of the expected project cost, following eligibility criteria
satisfactory to the Bank. LGs and extended municipal teams (EME) designed and implemented municipal
investment projects and community micro-projects with some assistance by the CPSCL and ARRU (for low-income
neighborhoods rehabilitation). The Training Center had been efficient in providing training to the LGs during
MIP. A project coordinator, reporting directly to MoI's State Secretary for local government, had been providing
high quality supervision and coordination of project institutional components since 1992. While this arrangement
worked well under the MIP, in hindsight, it carried a risk of loss of continuity and adaptation delays in the event of
his departure.




                                                          - 5 -

However, the technical assistance components could have been better prepared. Despite high degree of
consultation and dialogue with the Borrower during preparation, and GoT ownership of the project, including its
technical assistance components, the latter could have been better prepared. The four institutional project
components loosely grouped a large number of interrelated activities that had varying degrees of relevance to the
project objectives, required close supervision and intense implementation management that had not been planned
for. There was no time-bound and realistic implementation plan for a large number of planned sector studies that,
in their majority, required thorough planning, extensive consultations and validation upon delivery.

The substantial risk of low impact of local tax reform was identified correctly, but mitigation measures were not
designed well. The increase in local revenue due to local tax base and rates rationalization, supplemented by higher
collection rates, and reform of central transfers to improve their equalization role, was critical to ensure that LGs
would be able to implement an accelerated Ninth PIC, while keeping their level of indebtedness under control. The
project proposed close follow-up and technical assistance as mitigation measures for a "substantial" risk of LG
indebtedness getting out of control, and, hence, the eventual need for a central government bailout of the
overstretched municipalities. No contingency measures were planned at the project level if the local tax reform did
not produce an expected rise in the local resources, overall, or in some borrowing municipalities: the Government
was under no obligation to rescale its investment program or increase the central transfers, accordingly. While the
project did not explicitly pursue building creditworthiness of municipalities or instituting the culture of hard budget
constraint by the end of the project, it did, however, commit to the strengthening of LGs finances and financial
viability of CPSCL. The project design failed to address that.

The project's key performance indicators and monitoring and evaluation system was inadequate. As stated earlier,
the key performance indicators were poorly chosen and despite the sector reform and knowledge nature of the
project, the monitoring and evaluation system was not put in place.

What can be broadly termed "the sector evaluation and advisory activities" accounted at entry for less than 3.2
percent of the project cost. But they were critical to long-term sustainability of projects physical investments, and
the impact of the project at the sector level, especially given the correct identification of the critical financial risk.
These design flaws at entry were not corrected during current project implementation by the Government and the
Bank, but the lessons were learned and incorporated in the design of the follow-up operation (MDP III).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project achieved its development objectives. The outcome of the project is rated satisfactory, because
performance on the first DO has surpassed the target, and the second DO was partially achieved. A follow-up
sector operation was prepared and has started implementation, benefiting from the achievements of the project.

The project is part of a long-term effort of assistance to the Tunisian municipal sector, and needs to be evaluated
keeping this continuity in mind. The level of municipal infrastructure and services provision is more conducive to
discretionary evaluation at the project closure. The impact on the efficiency of municipal management is harder to
measure, especially in the absence of quality project impact indicators.

(a) The provision of infrastructure and services in Tunisian local governments has surpassed expectations.

The achievement of the first development objective is very important for the poverty alleviation and increasing the
quality of life across Tunisia. The project achieved this development objective effectively, given the centralized
context of municipal development in the country. The project successfully supported the GoT in the
implementation of the local government investment program (PIC) under the Ninth Plan (1997-2001). The total
PIC cost was estimated at TD 657 million, that is a 54% increase over the Eight Plan (1992-1996) PIC. The actual
PIC implemented during the lifetime of the project was even higher and amounted to TD 860 million. The project
was to finance TD 213 million, that is 32.4% of total estimated PIC investment, primarily into "public goods"
capital investments. The total project financing of municipal projects amounted to TD 206 million, that is 24% of
the actual PIC. The Bank loan contributed 40% of the municipal projects cost, through the CPSCL loans to



                                                          - 6 -

municipally executed projects, LGs contributed 22%, the rest was financed by the central government grants and
non-bank refinanced CPSCL funds.

Government and project development priorities were to expand and modernize infrastructure and statutory services
in municipalities and regional councils, and to reduce regional disparities by increasing access to basic facilities in
poorer localities. The project improved the accessibility of urban residencies and businesses, increased amount of
green areas, improved safety and environmental quality of many urban neighborhoods, developed commercial and
neighborhood facilities, improved level of provision of urban services and infrastructure in small towns and poor
neighborhoods, and provided needed municipal equipment. By supporting better access to infrastructure and basic
services, the project contributed to advancing social development goals of the GoT and to steady reduction of
number of people living below the poverty line (from 6.2% in 1990 to 4.2% in 2000). The majority of municipal
projects (67%) were investments in improved accessibility, open space, basic service connections and street
lighting. Provision of those services are the main statutory responsibilities of the Tunisian municipalities. They are
clearly the critical investments to improve the quality of life and business opportunities, and are absolutely
essential for poverty reduction.

The Ninth Plan PIC included new types of sector investments: solid waste landfills and small infrastructure works
in rural areas, but the Bank loan did not refinance these activities.The project financed projects in the majority of
municipalities, though by volume of loans, the municipality of Tunis is by far the largest borrower, reflecting the
dominance of the municipality of Tunis on the economic scene of Tunisia.

The project supported the ability of the LGs to fully deliver their contribution to the agreed program of physical
investments by offering them credit through the municipal financial institution at an affordable cost, adapted to the
Tunisian circumstances of administratively determined interest rates. The interest rate was increased to better
reflect the cost of capital for the such investments, and to start putting in place a system of cost-cautious service
delivery at the national and local level. The CPSCL provided free technical support to municipal teams in project
implementation, and this support was highly appreciated by the surveyed municipalities.

Efficiency in achieving the first DO was gained through opening the credit line directly to the municipal financial
intermediary, that had a proven track record of relatively fast loan disbursement and knowledge of the municipal
sector procurement and implementation practices. Eligibility criteria and other CPSCL operational requirements
reflected in its operational manual helped municipalities to implement the projects in more responsible and
cost-efficient way.

The project had limited success in increasing the provision of services through public-private partnerships and
through inter-city cooperation projects (particularly in SWM). The factors that explain limited success of these
projects are: (a) limited experience of private-public partnerships in the public sector and in the municipal service
provision and knowledge of service costs; (b) lack of qualified and experienced private companies; (c) absence of
clear policy guidelines for LGs, (d) lack of incentives for public-private partnerships and inter-city cooperation.
Recommendations have been made as to what needs to be changed to encourage more partnerships and
cost-sharing in municipal infrastructure and service provision. At appraisal, the project team rightly assessed the
Government's commitment to developing private sector participation in municipal projects as limited, and delays
in creating an enabling legal and regulatory framework as likely. In 2000, more incentives for inter-city
cooperation are put in place by the government and TD 15 million of such investments are expected to be realized
during the next PIC.

Overall, despite generally cumbersome procurement procedures in Tunisia, the credit line was rapidly committed
to the pipeline of eligible projects, and almost fully disbursed by the end of 2000. That testifies to the significant
capacity of Tunisian LGs to prepare, tender, and execute projects, and relatively high efficiency of CPSCL in
approving and disbursing the sub-loans (blended with grants).

(b) Important progress has been made in identifying critical measures for increasing the efficiency of public sector
management at the local level, less has been achieved in implementing more efficient local practices.



                                                         - 7 -

The key performance indicators were not chosen well, as explained above and, therefore, are not useful for
measuring achievement of the second development objective aiming at increasing management efficiency at the
local level:

         q        The fact that 76 municipalities introduced cost accounting on a pilot basis does not mean their
         efficiency has increased, as this municipal accounting tool needs to be well designed, properly mastered
         and integrated into other responsible municipal practices to bring efficiency gains.
         q        The rate of collection of direct tax roll has not increased from 40% baseline at the beginning of
         the project, to the target of 70%, instead, the collection rate was at 45.25% in 1997-99, and 52% at
         1997-2000, and in 2002 reached on average 58%. Collection rates measurement is difficult due to cash
         accounting practices that preclude tracking the unpaid taxes past collection and low incentive at the local
         level to improve collection behavior. The project did not tackle the collection issues beyond some
         computerization of direct tax rolls.

Efficiency of municipal management depends on many factors, but in general terms, the project focused more on
building organizational efficiency (improved internal procedures, application of good techniques, possession of
adequate skills) and less on institutional efficiency of municipal sector agents (incentive framework and
responsible behavior). Nevertheless, the project made important contributions to identifying current bottlenecks in
increasing municipal management efficiency, explained below:

The need for steady and sufficient financial resources to finance local investments. With regard to financing
municipal and regional development Tunisia is still highly centralized. The financial capacity of municipalities is
low, and their budgets overall represent less than 5% of the State Budget and less than 1.8% of GDP. Therefore,
the municipal development is highly dependent on central transfers and infrastructure delivery directly by the state.
The reform of FCCL distribution formula, introduced under the project, had limited effect on adding resources to
poorer municipalities. Simulations carried out during the preparation of the Tenth PIC showed that the debt
obligations, accumulated by municipalities during the Ninth PIC, can not be honored unless financially vulnerable
and weak municipalities undergo restructuring. By the end of the project the GOT committed to a steady increase
in the FCCL annual allocations and to a higher subsidy administered through CPSCL. These changes in the
financing model will be implemented under the follow-up project. At the same time, local cost recovery will be
improved.

The need to hire adequate municipal staff and equip it with performing tools. Studies, financed under the project,
have indicated that due to rigidities in civil service rules, municipalities experience difficulties in hiring and
retaining financial analysts, urban planners, and IT personnel that require competitive salaries. Lack of staff with
these profiles limits the ability of municipalities to plan, budget and, generally, increase programmatic and
performance evaluation capacity. Many activities offered by the Training Center target this audience, and
therefore, overcoming the staffing difficulties is critical. Through evaluation studies and pilots, the project
deepened the GoT understanding of the need for an efficient accounting and budgeting system, and the importance
of maintaining comprehensive and up-to-date municipal databases. The follow-up project will implement the
agreed improvements based on lessons learned in the current project.

The need to improve incentive framework for building partnerships with the private sector and other LGs. The
studies, financed under the project, demonstrated the failure of the existing regulatory system to encourage projects
that benefit from private capital, knowledge and management skills, as well as from the economies of scale in case
of provision of some inter-city services. The recommendations of the studies and the analysis of pilot activities,
carried out under the project, will be discussed and implemented during the follow-up project.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Credit line to CPSCL to finance priority municipal investments and micro-projects. This
component is rated satisfactory.



                                                        - 8 -

The results of the first component, financing priority municipal investments and micro-projects, attest to the
overall success of the project. The total component cost amounted to US $ 205 million, that is 97% of the estimated
amount, (or 101% of the estimated amount without the landfill operations that were not implemented). During the
period of the Ninth PIC (1997-2001) about 1,700 municipal projects were financed across the country with the
support of the Bank loan (80% of the total component cost).The Greater Tunis municipality is the largest single
borrower. The project exceeded targets in delivery of basic urban improvements and services, as can be seen from
the table below. The smaller than estimated share of the low-income neighborhood upgrading delivered by the
project is a result of substitution of lower-cost funds to finance these investments outside of the MDP project.

Investment Type (USD $ million)                     estimated                  actual                 act/est
Roads and sidewalks                                          75      35.2%         91.5          44%      122%
Urban improvements                                           18       8.5%         29.1          14%      162%
Equipment                                                    10       4.7%         17.1           8%      171%
Potable water                                                 1       0.5%           3.2          2%      321%
Assainissment and drainage                                    9       4.2%           9.1          4%      101%
Street lighting                                              12       5.6%         10.9           5%       91%
Low-income neighborhood upgrading                            45      21.1%         20.5          10%       45%
Commercial projects                                          30      14.1%         23.6          11%       79%
Landfills and transfer stations                              10       4.7%                        0%
(reallocated to IT equipment)
micro-projets                                                 4       1.9%           1.0        0.5%       25%
TOTAL                                                    213.0      100.0%        205.9        100%        97%

The line of credit was rapidly committed and almost fully disbursed by the end of 2000. The pipeline of projects
was already programmed in the PIC at the start of the project. Their majority was related such public goods as
road and sidewalk improvement, and therefore, were relatively uncomplicated to design and implement. Rapid
disbursement attests to the fact that despite heavy procurement system and bureaucratic procedures, municipalities
have a high capacity to design and deliver projects quickly. With the cooperation of the CPSCL and the ARRU (for
low-income neighborhood upgrading projects) they prepare project documents, attribute contracts, supervise and
process payments to contractors.

Financing at more concessional terms than the Bank loan was identified for landfills and transfer stations. The
funds allocated under this category of investments were utilized to finance computerization of the municipalities.

As far as the participatory community projects are concerned, only 38 micro-projects were financed out of planned
130 in 30 municipalities for the total investment cost of TD 1 million against estimated TD 4 million. The average
size of the projects is DT 30,500. The projects were realized en régie, and monitored by CPSCL - a very time
consuming process for such a small amount. Most of the micro-projects concerned paving and lighting the streets
in front of the participants' houses, building toilettes, painting the facades. Implementation of micro-projects was
overly institutionalized: project approvals and monitoring were needed at the level of CPSCL, and preparation and
execution was entrusted to the extended municipal teams (EME), that included municipal, technical and NGO
staff. A high (30% of project cost) resident contribution created further disincentives for local residents to
participate in otherwise very appreciated local initiatives.

Component 2: Training, technical assistance, and equipment to strengthen CPSCL management.                      This
component is rated satisfactory.

This component was implemented by the CPSCL. The Bank loan 49% of the costs, CPSCL auto-financed 51% of
technical assistance. The component was implemented at 99% of the estimated cost. Four phases of Strategic Study
were delivered and validated by the Government and CPSCL staff trained (719 participant/days). The new
headquarters of CPSCL were completed at the end of 2001 and equipment was purchased.




                                                           - 9 -

The Strategic Study became a major contribution of the whole project technical assistance program to the sector
reform. The sector evaluation and recommendations of the study have changed the municipal finance model in
Tunisia, adopted for implementation under the Tenth PIC. The 2002 National Municipal Conference validated the
study's evaluation of the financial difficulties that municipalities face. The planned volume of new capital
investments for the Tenth PIC was reduced, the central transfers were increased, new financial performance goals
were adopted for LGs (yearly expenditure ceilings and revenue targets), and CPSCL lending terms were adjusted
towards higher subsidies for poorer municipalities that are also more likely to be in the financially vulnerable
situation vis-à-vis the CPSCL.

The new financing model, the restructuring plans for vulnerable and weak municipalities, and the
recommendations of the study to introduce more efficiency into CPSCL management practices serve as the basis of
the follow-up project.

Component 3: Training, technical assistance and equipment to improve management of LGs, Directorate for
Local Governments (DGCPL) and Directorate General for Regional Affairs (DGAR). This component is rated
unsatisfactory.

This component was implemented by DGCPL and DGAR. It consisted of implementing an institutional plan to
strengthen local governments with a special focus on municipalities and rural councils. The implementation of
this component experienced a slow start and was only partially completed. While most planned evaluations have
been carried out and installation of equipment took place, the actual systems have not been delivered due to a late
start and to the complexity of assumed tasks.

DGCPL

The Project Coordinator, seasoned in the implementation of the institutional components of the MIP, had been
retained under this project. However, he left mid-way through project implementation and one of the Directors of
the DGCPL was acting for 2 years. The implementation arrangements for this component had to undergo a number
of adjustments, unforeseen at appraisal, and therefore, the component was implemented with a significant delay.

TORs preparation and launching of the agreed activities took a long time. After a lengthy contracting process, an
independent consultant was hired in 2001 to assist the DGCPL to coordinate (a) an evaluation of the pilot
implementation of cost accounting, (b) a study of the reform of budget classification, (c) a study on organization
and management of human resources, (d) a study on the extension of the municipal database. Finally, a single
consulting firm was contracted for cost accounting and budget classification study in January 2003. Evaluation
and action plans were proposed for the LG cost accounting and budget classification reform, and would be
integrated into activities of MDP III, and piloted in a group of municipalities.

The study of municipal human resources was based on a sample of six municipalities and allowed to identify the
critical gaps in the staffing that reflect on the quality of services the municipalities can deliver. Ways to overcome
that deficiency in the human resources base will be addressed in the MDP III.

An evaluation of the cooperation between municipalities in providing local services has been delivered, to help
increase the level of such cooperation. A guide to preparing inter-municipal projects to reduce the costs and
duplication of some service provision will be elaborated under the MDP III project.

The study of the municipal database was completed that indicated ways to reorganize the presentation of data and
modernized the design of the database, by introducing the calculation of FCCL, of the debt capacity of
municipalities, and establishing financial indicators. The database is meant to be accessible not only to the
administration but also to the municipalities themselves, the CPSCL and other institutions. The database will be
implemented by the MDP III and will serve to monitor the financial restructuring of municipalities.

The study of a system of monitoring of municipal projects was launched in January 2003. The system proposed by
the consultant is conceived as a module of the municipal database. Ways of implementing such a comprehensive


                                                          - 10 -

system of monitoring and keeping it updated and useful for the communal asset management are going to be
further elaborated under MDP III.In 1996 the master plan for computerization of local governments was launched.
The final report was approved in June 1999, it was distributed to municipalities in October 2002. Initially,
municipalities themselves were responsible for designing their IT program. To assist them in this process, the
Training Center organized a workshop (in February 2002) to help define a list of priority applications needed for
municipal management. The Center is responsible now for developing the TOR for acquiring the hardware and
software, installation and developing the relevant applications. All municipalities have benefited from
computerization, particularly, of applications managing local taxes and vital statistics. Six other applications were
developed and disseminated.

DGAR

Evaluation of the activities of the rural and neighborhood committees was launched in January 2003. The reports
submitted need to be improved to add more detail and to complement the evaluations and recommendations by
implementable action plans.

The initial effort of computerization has been carried out under the MIP project. It defined the master plan for
computerization of the regions. Since then DGAR purchased and installed computer equipment under the project
financing, and MoI budget paid for the equipment in the remaining regions.

MoI

A feasibility study for the creation of a Research Center to focus on decentralization was cancelled.

DGCPL and MoE

Advisory services together with the Ministry of Environment on facilitation of private sector participation in solid
waste management were cancelled in July 2001. However, due to the fact that training had been provided to
support this activity some 40 municipalities had launched private initiatives outside the project. Introduction of
private sector participation in SWM faced challenging problems resulting from the lack of accompanying
measures, such as regulatory reforms to enable municipalities to enter in partnerships with the private companies.
The evaluation was completed that analyzed the experience of privatization of solid waste collection services and
an action plan to address the main bottlenecks was proposed.

Component 4: Technical Assistance and Equipment for Training Center. This component is rated satisfactory.

The Center has expanded its activities and conducted 682 training sessions or 12040 participant/days, 103
seminars for 8 924 participants, or 8961 participant/days, 39 training sessions for the trainers for 416 participants,
or 1811 participant/days, 5 training sessions abroad for 22 participants or 157 participant/days. The center carried
out training on the routine topics of the municipal management, and as part of the tutoring for LG professionals
preparing for the MoI exams.

A strategic study (4 phases) of the improvement of Training Center activities was fully completed. The
recommendations for improvement were made based on the decision of the Government not to change the legal
status of the Center, and therefore not to increase its autonomy, as was recommended by Bank. The study has
produced a list of strategic recommendations that have received GOT approval and will be implemented under
MDP III.

Training Center renovation was postponed until the land ownership issue was settled. The architectural study and
the works are planned for the period of 2004-2005.

Component 5: Technical assistance and equipment for community participation programs. This component is
rated satisfactory.




                                                        - 11 -

Only    29 micro-projects were financed in 26 municipalities out of planned 130 in 30 municipalities. The
component included training and capacity strengthening activities for the Extended Municipal Teams (EMEs) and
Regional Commissions for Project Orientation (CROPs).

Institutional arrangements for micro-project preparation and execution proved too heavy and prone to prohibitive
delays. National Committee was instituted to follow the implementation of the micro-projects. At the regional level
CROPs were created and presided by the Secretary General of the Governorate. At the local level, EMEs were
instituted in 30 municipalities and included representatives of the municipality, concerned citizens and NGOs.
Three-day training was provided in 1999 for 20 EMEs and in 2000 for 10 EMEs. Trainers supervised action plans
elaborated during the training sessions. The role of CROPs was limited and often indistinguishable from the
general oversight by the governorate.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The CPSCL has followed the eligibility criteria for projects, agreed with the World Bank under MIP. Such criteria
differ according to the sector concerned: (a) for all eligible sectors and for all project dimensions, different
mutually exclusive project alternatives were compared and the least-cost solution chosen; (b) for communal service
a cost-recovery scheme for operation and maintenance were agreed for coverage under budget or by users; (c) for
revenue-generating activities the FRR calculated at appraisal was larger than 10%; (d) for sub-projects larger than
TD 1 million, an ERR of 10 % was required.

The Operational Manual detailed the methodology of calculating the rates. The first guide was in use since 1993,
the second, since 1998.     The new improved operational manual and practical guide for municipal investment
projects was approved by the Board of CPSCL in April 2003.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
For all revenue-generating activities submitted for financing by the CPSCL on the part of the municipalities, the
FRR estimated was larger than 10%. No FRR re-evaluations for the municipal projects are available at the time of
the ICR preparation.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is rated modest.

The project aimed at improving the operation of the following institutions: CPSCL, LGs, DGCPL, DGAR, and the
Training Center.     In addition, the project pursued improvements in the municipal finance model through
implementation of the 1997 local tax reform and the reform of central transfers through FCCPL.

The modest rating is based on (a) successful performance and validation of the prepared strategies for CPSCL and
the Training Center, but delays with other evaluations; (b) some improvement in operational efficiency of CPSCL
and the Training Center; (c) the identification and adoption of a modified model of municipal finance, including
appreciation of the limited effect of the 1997 local tax reform, and the identification of the main constraints to local
revenue generation and collection;

(a)      Successful performance and validation of the prepared strategies for CPSCL and the Training Center but
delays with other evaluations. As designed, the project had a large knowledge base component that, however, was
expected to lead to implementation of some of the produced recommendations.                 The project succeeded in
conducting evaluations and validating the recommendations of the studies for the strategic development of CPSCL
and the Training Center that will be implemented under the follow-up project. The modest institutional
development rating reflects, however, the fact that in case of LG, DGCPL and DGAR, evaluations were conducted
very late to be properly discussed and validated by the Government under the current project.

(b)      Improvement in operational efficiency of CPSCL and the Training Center services and products. Both,
the CPSCL and the Training Center have improved their performance to the benefit of the LG, their clients. The
CPSCL continues to assist the LG in preparation of their investment projects, and quickly disburses the committed


                                                         - 12 -

funds. The Training Center reduced the fees it charges for training and became more affordable to poorer
municipalities. Financial management of CPSCL was satisfactory (see section 7.6). CPSCL borrowed DT 18
million at the beginning of 2001 to restore its liquid assets depleted by heavy municipal borrowing at the end of the
Ninth PIC. However, the CPSCL still needs to improve its accounting system, its financial management by
employing an assets-liabilities-management tool, and introduce client rating. It will need to diversify its services
outside of PIC projects and rationalize its function of grant management for the state. The Training Center still
needs to better tailor its training program to the staffing needs and ability to pay of the client municipalities,
improve its trainers' remuneration policy, and improve its internal management.

c)        Identification and adoption of a modified model of municipal finance. The Government demonstrated a
commitment to change in the municipal sector, reflected in the formulation of the Tenth PIC relative to the
baseline situation at the start of the project. The changes adopted are: the important reduction in size and
financing mode of the Tenth PIC and reflected in the design of the MDP III; and the commitment of the
Government to more upstream reform of municipal sector and creating conditions to increase local revenues. The
studies and pilot projects implemented during the MDP II demonstrated the limited impact of the fiscal reforms of
1997 and 2000 on availability and predictability of financial resources for municipalities. Computerization of tax
rolls, initiated under MDP II did not change collection opportunities and behavior of municipalities and central
agencies (MoF) and will be complemented by further tax system rationalization under MDP III. New incentive
system is in place: access to subsidy is subject to financial performance criteria to be met by the LGs.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The factor truly outside of control of government is the universal complexity of municipal sector and governance
reforms under centralized or transitional systems.

Additionally, Bank performance affected project implementation and outcome. At least 4 teams led the project,
which reduced Bank ownership and institutional memory.

The CPSCL, as an implementing agency, has been constrained by the scope and pace of the municipal investment
program it had to implement in a tightly controlled municipal finance market and without due financial autonomy.
Despite the large volume of activity planned for the municipal bank during the Ninth PIC, CPSCL remained
largely dependent on official external lines of credit for its resources and continued to be restricted in the freedom
to approve or reject funding for projects listed in PIC as part of its credit risk management. It is also lending at
government determined interest rate. Weak condition of municipalities and their growing arrears are risks to
financial sustainability of the CPSCL.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The delay in launching agreed studies was caused by a non-robust project management arrangement for the
institutional component. Departure of project coordinator brought the MOI executed components to a prolonged
halt. A PMU could have been established at MOI as soon as it became obvious that the implementation
arrangements planned at appraisal needed to be modified.

The Bank has signaled at mid-term review that it would be important to focus on strengthening the financial
resources and management of municipalities, but the government took no action to change the focus of the
technical assistance program.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
CPSCL

The technical and institutional capacity of CPSCL explains to a large extent the successful outcome of the project.

CPSCL behaved responsibly and initiated new activities to proactively address its operating needs despite sector



                                                         - 13 -

constraints. To meet its resource needs CPSCL has floated its first bond issue. Having been alerted to the problems
of arrears, it begun to classify its arrears and provision for bad loans, while it is not required to do so, not having
the status of a bank and not having to follow prudential rules of the Central Bank. It also initiated an asset
management system. CPSCL proved to be a critical partner for municipalities to succeed in implementing their
investment programs.

GoT

As described in section 5.2, the components under the responsibility of MoI experienced delays. Their contribution
to the successful outcome would have been significantly higher if MoI had addressed the PMU issue in a timely
manner.



5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US$ 220 million (US$ 213 million for the municipal infrastructure
component). The figure was largely based on the predetermined pipeline of PIC projects for the Ninth PIC and the
set financial scheme. The nature of the project remained the same as in MIP. Actual project cost amounted to US $
213 million (out of which US$ 206 for the municipal infrastructure component). Some savings in the government
contribution to the project financing (76% of the projected financing) could be attributable to the exchange rate
fluctuation.

The Bank loan of EUR 69,028, 915.01 was fully disbursed. The original loan was denominated in French French
Francs ( 452, 800,000 FF), equivalent to US $ 80 million at the time of appraisal, or to US$ 69, 196,773,09 at the
time of closure.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is rated as likely.

 The rating is based on (a) good prospects that municipal investments realized under the project will be operated
and maintained by the municipalities and local population; (b) the expected improvement in financial situation and
availability of resources for operation of LGs and CPSCL under the third municipal operation with the Bank, that
will implement the financial and institutional reforms recommended by the current project.

(a) Good prospects for operating and maintaining the realized municipal investments. Municipalities have been
highly successful in executing local projects according to PIC plan. That attests to high technical and supervision
capacity of Tunisian municipalities. The project contributed to improving project management capacity further,
and identified some operation and management constraints the municipalities have to overcome.            Municipalities
will submit their maintenance plans together with their requests for new capital investments. CPSCL prepared a
guide and organized a seminar on maintenance and rehabilitation of existing assets, and disseminated this guide to
municipalities to help them plan for maintenance expenses in the projects to be implemented under the Tenth PIC.

(b) More financial resources will become available to strengthened CPSCL and LGs under the follow-up project.
The project underscored the fact that financial health of the municipal bank and its municipal clients are
interrelated. The strategic study, financed under the second component, resulted in significant adjustments to the
overall municipal finance model, emphasizing improving financial health of municipalities and reforming CPSCL
status to increase its financial viability. To this end, the programmed municipal expenditures will decrease, while
the revenue streams will increase. The pace of planned investment growth was arrested and the Tenth PIC was
reduced from TD 1,144 million to TD 896 million, that is only 4% growth in volume, versus 33% originally
planned. The shift was made towards a higher subsidy component for municipalities in financial difficulty, that
are usually more resource-poor and          more vulnerable to the rate of investments. The Government has also
committed to a TD 5 million annual increase in the FCCL for the next three years. The increased level of subsidy
is conditioned on the commitment of municipalities to increase their local resources by 9% while containing the



                                                          - 14 -

administrative expenses under the ceiling of 6%. The policy measures to increase local revenue collection are
designed and will be implemented under MDP III.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The municipal projects financed by the loan are operated by the municipalities and beneficiary population.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation is rated partially satisfactory.

At the time of preparation and appraisal, the project clearly responded to the government needs and CAS priorities.
The project continued the policy dialogue and reforms started by MIP. The amount of the loan and the lending
instrument was chosen well. The loan agreement could have included more provisions and triggers for mitigation
measures if major identified risks were to materialize by mid-term.


7.2 Supervision:
Overall supervision performance is rated unsatisfactory.

While the supervision missions were regular and well staffed, and the overall DO of the project were achieved
satisfactorily, the negative rating is given because of the lack of proactivity in Bank's supervision performance
where it could have a very high impact on increasing the project's development outcome : (a) supervision did not
correct the quality at entry deficiency with respect to design and implementation arrangements of the technical
assistance components 3-5; (b) supervision did not improve the choice of key performance indicators and the
overall monitoring and evaluation of the project; and most importantly (c) supervision did not take adequate steps
to revise project components to respond to the lower than expected impact of 1997 local tax reform on increasing
local revenue base.

The mid-term review took place in July 2000, one month later than planned at appraisal. The mid-term mission
evaluated the project's progress and identified the need to start preparing a third municipal project, based on the
advanced degree of commitment and disbursements of the credit line. The mid-term reported on the difficulties in
implementation of the 4 other components of the project and the unrealized expectations of the 1997 local tax
reform on local revenue growth. However, no major revisions were introduced to the project to address these issues
in the remaining 3 years of project implementation.

Supervision lacked continuity: the project had 4 task managers and 3 sector managers. The importance of more
consistent and more proactive supervision has been brought to Bank management attention for implementation of
MDP III.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The rating of Borrower's performance at preparation is satisfactory.

The project financed continued sector dialogue and implementation of PIC projects identified during the
implementation of MIP. The Borrower fully owned the design of the project and supported the implementation
arrangements that had proved efficient during implementation of MIP.




                                                        - 15 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The rating for Government implementation performance is unsatisfactory.

The main justification for the unsatisfactory rating of GoT performance is the modest institutional development
impact of the project. GoT was the implementing agency for the subsidiary loan to finance sector studies and
technical assistance. Similar to the Bank, the Government lacked proactivity: TORs for important sector studies
were not prepared on time and with due care; the studies meant to prepare reforms were launched too late; FCCL
reform was delayed by 3 years (dated covenant, section 4.04 of Guarantee Agreement) and partially achieved
intended equalization changes; no steps were taken to address the limitations of the 1997 fiscal reform during the
project life.

Only at the end of the project, the Government did improve its implementation performance and contributed to the
sustainability of the project by validating the recommendations of the strategic municipal finance study and
amending the design of the Tenth PIC.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of CPSCL is rated highly satisfactory.

Overall, CPSCL has displayed commitment to delivering what was under its direct control and steadily improving
its structure and procedures. It assumed an important catalytic role in the municipal sector reform.

The financial situation of CPSCL has consolidated. Interest rates on municipal loans were gradually increased to
better reflect the cost of funds for CPSCL. Audits have been unqualified and timely. CPSCL has maintained or
exceeded the financial ratios covenanted under the project agreement, except for year 2002: net income/total assets
of 2.1% (1.5% target), return on equity 6.7% (4% target), debt/service coverage of 4.3 (1.5 target). On April 4,
2001 the Council of Ministers approved a CPSCL equity contribution of TD 86 million. The financial situation of
the CPSCL deteriorated in 2002 due to (a) the drop in lending activity between PICs, and (b) increasing arrears,
mainly driven by the large exposure of the CPSCL vis-à-vis the capital municipality of Tunis. The financial audit
of Tunis municipality has been commissioned and remedial measures are being taken.

CPSCL reacted proactively to evolving circumstances to ensure its satisfactory performance and sustainability
despite financial and political challenges. To meet its additional needs in long-term resources, the CPSCL for the
first time issued a bond for TD 30 million on the local market to supplement the TD 32 million it received as a
loan from Agence Françiase de Développement (AfD). CPSCL obtained a very satisfactory credit rating of AA+
from Maghreb Rating (credit rating agency).

Having been alerted to the problems of arrears, including under 3 months of age, it begun to classify its arrears and
reserve funds for bad loan provisions (TD 3 million). CPSCL is not required to do so, as not having the status of a
bank it does not have to follow prudential rules of the Central Bank.

CPSCL, however, was not in full compliance with the procurement and economic analysis covenants of the loan.
There was a divergence identified between Bank guidelines and what municipalities actually did. To address the
issue to the best of its ability, CPSCL conducted a study and training to inform the municipal staff and to improve
the situation.


DGCPL and DGAR

Implementation performance of DGCPL and DGAR is rated unsatisfactory.

The main reason for the unsatisfactory rating is low project management commitment displayed by the two
oversight administrations. The implementation of project components under DGCPL and DGAR responsibility
experienced multiple delays, were not completed, and were not properly monitored.


                                                        - 16 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance and participation of the Borrower were satisfactory.



8. Lessons Learned

Lesson 1. The project experience underscores importance of a careful design and supervision of implementation
mechanism for technical assistance in projects that aim at sector reform and incorporate pilot sector reform
initiatives. While evaluation studies are necessary, planning and launching too many studies without an action plan
and framework for implementation of their recommendations should be avoided. Close and continuous supervision
is required not to miss the opportunity (preferably at mid-term) to restructure the project to maintain relevancy and
efficacy.

Lesson 2. Sector reform projects have to incorporate and generate a well-designed monitoring and evaluation
system for assessing the project outcome and the priority needs of the sector, especially when follow-up operations
are planned, or when substantial risks are identified at project entry.

Lesson 3. Improvement of local revenue generation and collection should be supported by the project through a
well-targeted and realistic program of activities. The efficiency of such a program should be subject to thorough
evaluation at mid-term and its focus readjusted, if needed.

Lesson 4. If the overall efficiency of municipal management is among the development objectives of a municipal
project, a clear distinction should be made between activities supporting the organizational efficiency (improving
and rationalizing internal procedures and tools), and those that are targeting better institutional efficiency of the
sector (improving incentive frameworks and regulatory environments). Focus only on organizational efficiency is
limited in its impact on the sector reform.

Lesson 5. The project's pilot interventions, even if designed to test new approaches, should be based on some
degree of prior sector analysis. Typically, systemic inefficiencies in the management practices of local governments
are predictable risks to pilot operations and should be mitigated. Those inefficiencies are common to municipal
sectors of many countries: overlap in central-local responsibilities; excessive ex ante controls, high the volume of
required approvals, legal framework not conducive to delegation of some local services, civil service rigidities,
disincentives for inter-city cooperation.

Lesson 6. The ideal municipal project is planned and delivered in a participatory manner by the municipality
according to its capacity. That would in most cases remove the need to devise national and hence, uniform,
approaches to reaching the poor members of the communities, be it through national upgrading programs or
through special institutional arrangements for micro-project initiatives. However, while the ability of the
municipalities to decide for themselves and their programming capacity are limited, national and micro-project
initiatives are necessary, and everything possible should be done to simplify, shorten and cheapen the delivery of
local projects to encourage the community voice and organization around the municipal projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower agreed with most of ICR's conclusions. In its comments, the Borrower clarified further the causes of
delay in the implementation of the institutional components, the significant accomlishments of the Tunisian
municipalities in successful implementation of municipal investment projects, and reasons for lower than expected
number of private-public partnerships in municipal service provision. The comments of Borrower were taken into
consideration in the final version of the ICR text.




                                                         - 17 -

The Borrower disagreed with the unstatisfactory ratings of Government Implementation Performance and the
DGCPL and DGAR (Implementing Agencies for Components 3 and 4), on the grounds of the overall solid
achievements of the project and accelerated performance by the DGCPL and DGAR on their components towards
the end of the project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
n/a

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
              Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Investment cost of PIC (Programme               33 MUSD                            The total PIC supported by the project is US
d'Investissement Communal) per year.                                               $ 206 million. The annual cost is US $ 34.3
                                                                                   million
Investment cost of line of credit per year.     0.0 MUSD                           The line of credit amounted to US $ 83.4
                                                                                   million. The annual cost is US$ 13.9 million
Investment cost of line of credit per inhabitant                                   N/A
for the concerned communes.
Number of LGs introducing cost accounting       76                                 76 municipalities introduced cost accounting
procedures.                                                                        on a pilot basis
Rate of recovery of direct tax role will        70%                                For 2002 an average collection rate of 58%
increase on average from 50% to 70% by the                                         was reported
end of the project.

See comments in the report regarding the quality of the key performance indicators. The ICR evaluation
could not rely on the key performance indicators.
Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
              Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
not monitored                                   not monitored                      not monitored




1End of project
No records are available for the output indicators in the PSRs.




                                                                - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million   US$ million
1. Local Governments priority municipal investments and       213.00         205.90          105.6
micro-projects
2. Training, technical assistance, and equipment to             1.37            1.35            99
strengthen CPSCL management
3. Training, technical assistance and equipment to improve      1.90            1.80           100
management of LGs, DGCPL, DGAR.
4. Technical assistance and Equipment for Training Center       3.80            3.80           100
5. Technical assistance and equipment for community             0.20            0.04           100
participation programs

Total Baseline Cost                                           220.27         212.89
                           Total Project Costs                220.27         212.89
                   Total Financing Required                   220.27         212.89


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                             10.00           174.30        29.00         0.00       213.30
                                     (2.10)          (63.20)      (11.00)        (0.00)    (76.30)
2. Goods                              0.00            0.50          1.30         0.00        1.80
                                     (0.00)           (0.20)      (0.60)         (0.00)     (0.80)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00          5.20         0.00        5.20
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.90)         (0.00)     (2.90)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             10.00           174.80        35.50         0.00       220.30
                                     (2.10)          (63.40)      (14.50)        (0.00)    (80.00)




                                                   - 20 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00             188.00             18.00             0.00             206.00
                                           (0.00)            (73.40)           (10.00)            (0.00)           (83.40)
    2. Goods                                0.00               0.50              1.30             0.00              1.80
                                           (0.00)             (0.50)            (0.70)            (0.00)           (1.20)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              5.08             0.00              5.08
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.60)            (0.00)           (3.60)
    4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00             188.50             24.38             0.00             212.88
                                           (0.00)            (73.90)           (14.30)            (0.00)           (88.20)
   All figures provided are best estimates, as no information was provided by the borrower at the time of ICR
   preparation
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Local Governments           76.30        136.70                   83.36        122.60                 109.3     89.7
priority municipal
investments and
micro-projects
2. Training, technical          0.68         0.69                     0.67         0.69                  98.5     100.0
assistance, and equipment
to strengthen CPSCL
management
3. Training, technical          1.09         0.83                     2.61         1.07                  239.4    128.9
assistance and equipment
to improve management of
LGs, DGCPL, DGAR.
4. Technical assistance and     1.83         2.00                     1.36         0.53                  74.3      26.5
Equipment for Training
Center
5. Technical assistance and     0.10         0.08                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
equipment for community
participation programs




                                                           - 21 -

There is some discrepancy between different sources of information on project cost and financing, the
author made its best to reconcile the numbers.




                                                 - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/20/1996

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/17/1997

 Supervision
              12/18/1997                3    ECONOMIST (1); MUN.              S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1);SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1)
              06/12/1998                4    ECONOMIST (1); MUNICIPAL         HS             HS
                                             ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ADVISER (1); INFRAST. SPEC.
                                             (1)
              11/28/1998                5    ECONOMIST (1); MUNICIPAL         S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ADVISER (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); URBAN EXPERT (1)
              06/12/1999                5    SR MUNICIPAL ENGINEER            S               S
                                             (1); PROC. SPEC. (1) MUN.
                                             MANAG. SPEC. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ADVISER (1);
                                             PROJECTS ASSISTANT (1)
              02/05/2000                3    URBAN SECTOR MANAGER             S               S
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ADVISER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              07/25/2003                6    URBAN SECTOR MANAGER             S               S
                                             (1; FIN. ADVISER (1);
                                             DECENTRALIZATION SPEC.
                                             (1); PROC. SPEC. (1); URBAN
                                             SPEC. (2)
              04/06/2001                5    URBAN SECTOR MANAGER             S               S
                                             (1); DECENTRALIZATION
                                             SPEC. (1); FINANC. ADVISER
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              01/16/2002                4    ECONOMIST (1); SR                S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             DECENTRALIZATION SPEC.
                                             (1)
              01/31/2003                3    FINANCIAL SPEC. (1);             S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SPEC. (1);
                                             DECENTRALIZATION SPEC.
                                             (1)
              05/10/2003                1    FINANCIAL. SPEC. (1)             S               S




                                              - 24 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  N/A                         389 (1)
  Supervision                            N/A                            399
  Total                                                                 813
1) Excludes TF totalling $39.000




                                             - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The report is based on the documents in the project file and studies delivered by the project
1. Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Tunisia, Second Municipal Development Project, World Bank
   Report No. 16410-TUN. May 15, 1997
2. Loan Agreement, October 7, 1997
3. Guarantee Agreement - September 24, 1997
4. Amendment of Loan Agreement - January 20, 1998
5. Project Supervision Reports
6. Back-to-Office Reports
7. Periodic Progress Reports




                                                   - 28 -

- 29 -

