Page  1
January 20, 1998
H.E. Mohamed Ghannouchi 
Minister of International Cooperation 
  and Foreign Investment 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
  and Foreign Investment 
98, Avenue Mohamed V 1002 
Tunis-Belvédère  
Republic of Tunisia
Re:
Loan No. 4202-TUN
(Second Municipal Development Project)
Amendment to the Guarantee Agreement
Your Excellency:
We refer to the Guarantee Agreement (Second Municipal Development Project) dated 
September 24, 1997, between the Republic of Tunisia (the Guarantor) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the related Loan 
Agreement (Second Municipal Development Project) of the same date between the Bank and 
the Caisse des Prêts et de Soutien des Collectivités Locales (the Borrower).  We also 
refer to your request contained in the letter No. 153/3-1-1 dated January 19, 1998 to 
amend the Guarantee Agreement in order to provide the required additional time to 
comply with the Guarantor’s obligation set forth in Section 4.04 thereto.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank, after due consideration, has agreed 
to the above.  Accordingly, Section 4.04 of the Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended 
to read as follows:
“Section 4.04.  The Guarantor shall take all action required on its behalf to 
submit to the vote of its Chamber of Deputies, not later than September 30, 1998, a 
draft law, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, amending the provisions of 
Article 3 of the Guarantor’s Law No. 75-36 dated May 14, 1975 in order to modify the 
existing distribution criteria of the Fonds Commun des Collectivités Locales to make 
them more equitable and allow the poorer local governments to mobilize the resources 
necessary to their development.”
All the terms and conditions of the Guarantee Agreement, as amended hereby, 
shall remain in full force and effect.  Given its interest in this matter, a copy of 
this Amendment Letter is being forwarded to the Borrower. \0c
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the confirmation on the enclosed copy of this Amendment Letter and returning it to us.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Marisa Fernández Palacios 
    Acting Director 
    Maghreb Department 
    Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Page  2
/s/ Noureddine Majdoub
    Authorized Representative
Date: January 21, 1998         
Copy to:
Mr. Mabrouk Mejri
Caisse des Prêts et de Soutien
  des Collectivités Locales
8, rue de Médine
1002 Tunis-Belvédère
Republic of Tunisia
Cleared with and cc:
Mesdames Laura Raimondo (MNSID), Claudia M. Pardiñas Ocaña (LEGMN),
Thu-Ha Nguyen (LOAEL).
