Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4202-TUN
Loan Agreement
(Second Municipal Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CAISSE DES PRETS ET DE SOUTIEN DES COLLECTIVITES LOCALES
Dated September 24, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4202-TUN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1997, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the CAISSE DES PRETS ET DE SOUTIEN DES 
COLLECTIVITES LOCALES (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Tunisia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; 
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;  
(C)
Parts C, D and E of the Project will be carried out by the Guarantor with 
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the Guarantor a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, or (g) 
by the date specified in 
paragraph 4 (c) of Section II of the Annex to 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Bank shall,  in respect of any portion of the Loan: 
(i) have received no applications or requests 
permitted under paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of said Section; or (ii) have denied such 
applications or 
requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right to submit such applications or approvals or to make withdrawals 
from the 
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion 
of the Loan.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan 
shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“ANPE” means the Guarantor’s National Agency for Environmental Protection 
(Agence Nationale pour la Protection de l’Environment), established and operating 
pursuant to the Guarantor’s Law No. 88-91 dated August 2, 1988 and its implementation 
decree No. 88-1784 dated October 18, 1988, as the same may be amended from time to 
time; 
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a municipal or regional administration of the 
Guarantor (collectivité locale), or other entity owned or controlled by, or operating 
for the account or benefit of, such administration, to which the Borrower proposes to 
make or has made a Sub-loan (as hereinafter defined); 
(c)
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 to this Agreement; and the term 
“Categories” means more than one Category collectively;
(d)
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque Centrale de 
Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the Guarantor’s Law No. 58-90 dated 
September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)
“Charter” means, individually or collectively, the Guarantor’s Law No. 
75-37 dated May 14, 1975 and its implementation decrees No. 92-688 dated April 16, 
1992, and No. 92-1092 dated June 6, 1992, pursuant to which the Borrower has been 
established and is operating subject to the rules of industrial and commercial public 
institutions (établissements publics à caractère industriel et commercial);
Page  3
(f)
“CROP” means a Regional Commission for Project Guidance (Commission 
Régionale d’Orientation du Project), a commission established in any of the 
Guarantor’s governorates in which Microprojects (as hereinafter defined) are being 
carried out, for the purpose of supervising the appraisal and implementation of the 
impact of said Microprojects, and comprising representatives from the local 
governments (as hereinafter defined), non-governmental organizations, and community 
organizations; 
(g)
“Decree 91-362” means the Guarantor’s decree No. 91-362 dated March 13, 
1991 regarding the preparation of environmental impact assessments; 
(h)
“DGAR” means the General Directorate for Regional Affairs (Direction 
Générale des Affaires Régionales) within the MOI (as hereinafter defined);
(i)
“DGCPL” means the General Directorate of Local and Public Communities 
(Direction Générale des Collectivités Publiques Locales) within the MOI (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(j)
“Dinar” means the lawful currency of the Guarantor; 
(k)
“EME” means an Expanded Municipal Team (Équipe Municipale Élargie), 
formed within a municipality of the Guarantor, and comprising one (1) or more 
non-governmental organizations and community organizations, for the purposes of 
identifying, preparing, implementing and evaluating Microprojects (as hereinafter 
defined);
(l)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Guarantor’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year;
(m)
“free-limit Sub-loan” means a Sub-loan (as hereinafter defined) which 
qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of 
Section II of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(n)
“French Franc” and “FRF” means each the lawful currency of the Republic 
of France;
(o)
“local government” means a municipal or regional administration 
(collectivité locale) of the Guarantor; 
(p)
“Microproject” means a specific development project for urban improvement 
to be carried out by a Beneficiary under Part A (ii) of the Project utilizing the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan;  
(q)
“MOI” means the Ministry of the Interior of the Guarantor (Ministère de 
l’Intérièur) established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Guarantor’s 
decree No. 91-543 dated April 1, 1991;
(r)
“Municipal Performance Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower 
to measure the progress in the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project and the 
degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
(s)
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s statement of lending and 
investment policies and procedures for its operations and financial structure, dated 
July 9, 1992, as the same may be revised, updated and amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Section II 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(t)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out 
of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for the purposes of carrying out a 
Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) or a Microproject; 
(u)
“Sub-project” means a specific development project for municipal 
improvement to be carried out by a Beneficiary under Part A (i) of the Project 
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
Page  4
(v)
“Subsidiary Loan” means the loan proposed to be made by the Borrower out 
of the proceeds of the Loan to the Guarantor for the purposes of carrying out Parts C, 
D and E of the Project; 
(w)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Guarantor and the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
(x)
“Training Center” means the National Center for the Training and 
Re-Training of Regional and Municipal Staff (Centre National de Perfectionnement et de 
Recyclage des Cadres Régionaux et Municipaux), established and operating as an 
administrative public institution (établissement public à caractère administratif) 
pursuant to the provisions of Guarantor’s Law No. 94-76 dated June 27, 1994, and its 
implementation decree No. 94-2325 dated November 14, 1994. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
hundred fifty-two million eight hundred thousand French Francs (FRF452,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals 
made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and works 
required for the Sub-project or Microproject, as the case may be, in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for Parts B, C, D and E of the Project. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on June 15 
and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08.  The Minister of the Interior of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken in respect of Parts C, D and E of the Project under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of Parts A and B of the Project; 
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A and B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, economic, environmental, financial, municipal and 
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts A and B of the Project. 
Page  5
(b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out Parts A and B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  (a)  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that Parts C, D and E 
of the Project shall be carried out by the Guarantor and, to that end, the Borrower 
shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (2) 
(b) and (3) (b) to the Guarantor under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into 
between the Guarantor and the Borrower, under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Bank and which shall include those set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the 
future operation of Parts A and B of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts C, D and 
E of the Project shall be carried out by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03. of 
the Guarantee Agreement. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, economic, environmental, financial, municipal 
and technical practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out and complete, not later than June 30, 
1999, a strategic study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, designed 
to: 
(a)
guide the Borrower towards an institutional reform encompassing the 
possibility of developing the Borrower into a bank and expanding its role in the 
financing and development of the municipal sector; and
(b)
consider and examine suitable new accounting procedures and new 
prudential regulations, acceptable to the Bank and the Central Bank, that may be 
applicable to the Borrower and that, independently of its transformation.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain: (i) procedures and records 
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Parts A and B of the Project and of 
each Sub-project and Microproject (including its cost and the benefits to be derived 
Page  6
from it); and (ii) records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such Year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such Year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall open 
and thereafter maintain, in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, a separate account on its books to which it shall credit each payment of 
interest and repayment of principal under any Sub-loan.  All amounts so credited shall 
be utilized by the Borrower, to the extent they are not yet required to meet the 
Borrower’s payment or repayment obligations to the Bank under the Loan Agreement, 
exclusively to finance specific projects for the further development of the 
Guarantor’s municipalities.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as 
shall be necessary to protect itself against the risk of loss resulting from changes 
in the rates of exchange between the various currencies (including the Dinar) used in 
its operations.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
earn an annual return on its lending operations of not less than: (i) one percent (1%) 
during each of its Fiscal Years ending on December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1998; and 
(ii) one and a half percent (1.5%) during its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1999 
and each of its Fiscal Years thereafter.
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, the Borrower shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
Page  7
Year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of 
such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s Fiscal Years covered by 
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its interest rates and 
other financial charges) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The annual return on the Borrower’s lending shall be calculated by 
dividing 
the Borrower’s net operating income for the Fiscal Year in 
question by one 
half of the sum of the current net value of 
the Borrower’s assets at the 
beginning and at the end of that 
Fiscal Year.
(ii)
The term “net operating income” means total operating revenues 
less total 
operating expenses.
(iii)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
(iv)
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including interest and other charges on debt, 
administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, and provision for 
depreciation on a basis 
acceptable to the Bank.
(v)
The term “current net value of the Borrower’s assets” means the 
gross value of 
the Borrower’s assets less the amount of accumulated 
reserves allocated for 
loan losses, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
produce, for each of its following Fiscal Years funds from internal sources equivalent 
to not less that the following percentage of the total principal amount of all loans 
disbursed by the Borrower during such Fiscal Year: (i) for each of its Fiscal Years 
ending on December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1998: thirty-five percent (35%); and (ii) 
for its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1999 and each of its Fiscal Years 
thereafter: forty percent (40%).
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, the Borrower shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
Year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s Fiscal Years covered by 
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its interest rates and 
other financial charges) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
income on 
short-term investments, repayments of loans made by 
the Borrower, net 
non-operating income and any reduction in 
working capital other than 
cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
Page  8
payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and 
other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term “working capital other than cash” means the difference 
between 
current assets excluding cash and 
current 
liabilities at the end of each 
Fiscal Year.
(iv)
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 
twelve (12) months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and prepaid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the 
next Fiscal Year.
(v)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve (12) months, including accounts 
payable, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.06.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
the Borrower shows that the estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each Fiscal 
Year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the 
estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in such Year on all debt of the 
Borrower including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
Page  9
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by the 
Borrower not 
earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the incurrence of 
the debt in 
question, which both the Bank and the Borrower accept 
as reasonable and as to 
which the Bank has notified the Borrower of 
its acceptability, provided that 
no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may have, a 
material adverse effect on 
the financial condition or future operating results 
of the Borrower.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.07. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
earn for: (i) its Fiscal Years ending on December 31, 1998, an annual return of not 
less than three percent (3%) on its average equity; (ii) each of its Fiscal Years 
ending on December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2000, an annual return of not less than 
four percent (4%) on its average equity; and (ii) its Fiscal Year ending on December 
31, 2001 and each of its Fiscal Years thereafter, an annual return of not less than 
five percent (5%) on its average equity.
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, the Borrower shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of 
such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s Fiscal Years covered by 
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its interest rates) in 
order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The annual return of the average equity shall be the net income 
calculated as 
a percentage of the average equity during the Fiscal 
Year.
(ii)
The average equity shall be calculated by dividing the Borrower’s 
equity at 
the beginning of the Fiscal Year in question by the 
Borrower’s equity at the 
end of that Fiscal Year.
(iii)
The term “net income” means total operating and non-operating 
revenues less 
operating and non-operating expenses.
(iv)
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
Page  10
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not 
allocated to cover specific 
liabilities.
(v)
The term “total revenues” means revenues from all sources, 
including interest 
income from the Borrower’s loans to local 
governments, and interest income on 
its investment but excluding any 
subsidies received from the Government or 
other sources.
(vi)
The term “total expenses” means all expenses, including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes and provision for 
depreciation.
Section 4.08. The provisions of Sections 3.07 of the Project Agreement between 
the Bank and the Borrower dated October 7, 1992 (Loan No. 3507-TUN for the Municipal 
Sector Investment Project) are hereby amended to read as set forth in Section 4.07 of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Charter or the Operational 
Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out Parts A or B 
of the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following additional event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has 
been executed on behalf of the Guarantor and the Borrower. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Guarantor and the Borrower and is legally 
binding upon the Guarantor and the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the General 
Director of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  11
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Caisse des Prêts et de Soutien
  des Collectivités Locales
8, rue de Médine
1002 Tunis - Belvédère
Republic of Tunisia
Telex:
14522 TRANS.TN 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China, as of the 
day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kemal Dervis 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
CAISSE DES PRETS ET DE SOUTIEN 
  DES COLLECTIVITES LOCALES
By /s/ Mohamed Ghannouchi 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
French Francs)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-loans under Part A
100% of the amount
of the Project
paid by Borrower
under each Sub-loans
(a) for Sub-projects,
 420,600,000
excluding those referred
to in paragraph 2 (b) of
Section II of the Annex
Page  12
to Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, and Micro-
projects
(b) for Sub-projects
  11,300,000
referred to in para-
graph 2(b) of Section
II of the Annex to
Schedule 5 to this
Agreement
(2)
Goods
 
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost), and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(a) under Part B of
   1,900,000
the Project
(b) under Parts C, D
   2,500,000
and E of the Project
(3)
Consultants' Services
100%
and Training:
(a) under Part B of
   1,900,000
the Project
(b) under Parts C, D
  14,600,000
and E of the Project
TOTAL
 452,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods, works, or services supplied from the territory of the 
Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
March 15, 1997; and
(b)
the first payment made for expenditures under Category (1) (b), unless 
and until the Bank shall have received, on behalf of the Guarantor, and approved, a 
plan: (i) proposing clearly defined institutional arrangements identifying the owner, 
the financier of the investment and exploitation, and the operator of the proposed 
works; (ii) providing satisfactory evidence of the issuance by the Guarantor’s 
Ministry of the Environment of the approvals of technical and environmental standards 
and authorizations for landfill and transfer stations required in Articles 18, 23 and 
24 of the Guarantor’s Law No. 96-41 dated June 10, 1996; and (iii) in the event the 
management of the landfill or transfer station is contracted out to the private 
sector, describing the measures undertaken and completed by the Guarantor in order to 
eliminate the existing legal constraints limiting said contracting out to the private 
sector.
Page  13
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under contracts costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent each, excluding those subject to prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of subparagraph 1 (ii) of Part D, Section I of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement; (ii) works, under contracts costing less than $1,000,000 
equivalent each, excluding those subject to prior review in accordance with the 
provisions of subparagraph 1 (iii) of Part D, Section I of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; (iii) services of consulting firms, under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) services of individual consultants, under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to enhance infrastructure and services in 
Tunisian local governments and increase efficiency of public sector management at the 
local level.  To this end, the Project will: (i) finance part of the local 
governments’ investment priorities selected to be carried out during the Guarantor’s 
Ninth Development Plan; (ii) strengthen the financial viability and management of the 
Borrower; (iii) strengthen the finances of local governments through the 
implementation of the local taxation reform and the targeting of the finances of 
poorer local governments by increasing the equalization role of the system of 
transfers from the central budget; (iv) promote efficiency in the administration of 
local governments and in the management and supervision capabilities of DGCPL and 
DGAR; (v) reinforce the role of the Training Center in providing training to staff of 
the local governments; (vi) strengthen the quality of life for mostly disadvantaged 
neighborhoods and increasing involvement of communities in local development 
activities; and (vii) facilitating private participation in municipal services, 
particularly in solid waste management activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Guarantor, the Borrower, and the Bank may agree upon from time to time 
to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Municipal Infrastructure
Carrying out of: (i) Sub-projects to construct, upgrade, rehabilitate and 
maintain the municipal infrastructure of local governments, including urban roads and 
sidewalks, potable water supply systems, solid waste collection, disposal and 
treatment systems, sewerage and drainage systems, green and recreational areas, street 
lighting, market, slaughterhouse and other commercial facilities, and to rehabilitate 
low-income neighborhoods under the Programme National de Réhabilitation des Quartiers 
Populaires and construct infrastructure under the Programme de Développement Urbain 
Intégré; and (ii) Microprojects for peri-urban improvement and renewal in 
disadvantaged neighborhoods.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening of Borrower
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the management capacity of the Borrower 
so as to adequately attend its new investment program for the next five years, 
including the provision of the equipment, new offices supplies, furniture, computers 
and transport vehicles as required therefor, and comprising:
(a)
carrying out of a training program designed to: (i) provide basic 
information on municipal management to the Borrower’s newly-recruited staff; (ii) 
improve capacities in administrative, financial, and technical management of 
Sub-projects for all of the Borrower’s staff; and (iii) improve appraisal and 
management capacity of the staff of the Borrower through the use of information 
technology; and
(b)
carrying out of a set of studies specifically aimed at: (i) facilitating 
the functional procedures with a new accounting system, a better database on local 
governments, and improved data circulation and classification; (ii) improving the 
appraisal, supervision and post-evaluation of Sub-projects, including the possibility 
Page  14
of creating a new unit responsible therefor; and (iii) devising the Borrower’s 
medium-term financial evolution, comprising the possibility of its transformation into 
a bank.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening of Local Governments, the DGCPL and 
the DGAR
Implementation by DGCPL and DGAR of an institutional plan designed to strengthen 
local governments and rural councils, through the improvement of their management 
capacity, and to assist DGCPL and DGAR in better monitoring local government 
efficiency, and entailing the:
(a)
carrying out of a set of studies by DGCPL aimed at: (i) progressively 
introducing the cost accounting system in local governments’ administration on the 
basis of pilot studies on a sample of communes; (ii) exploring reforms of the 
budgetary and accounting nomenclature; (iii) extending the existing database to human 
resources and monitoring training efficiency, and, on the basis thereof, review the 
performance of local governments in personnel management; (iv) computerizing local 
governments with financial management, cost accounting and stock management 
operational software; and (v) improving the organization of local governments services 
on a pilot basis;
(b)
implementation by DGAR of a program consisting of: (i) the carrying out 
of a study on the development of rural councils with a view to providing the required 
technical, administrative, and financial measures to improve their efficiency; (ii) 
the carrying out of a study to develop neighborhood committees (comités de quartiers), 
and formulate proposals for regulatory measures to further evolve their role; (iii) 
strengthening of rural councils through the provision of office supplies, training to 
rural representatives, and assistance in the preparation of development plans for 
their territory; and (iv) the execution of the computerized master plan for the 
governorates and DGAR;
(c)
carrying out of a study by MOI to define the basis, including the most 
appropriate institutional framework, for the establishment of a Research Center to 
focus on decentralization and other measures required to improve the management of 
local governments and facilitate the exchange of information between the local 
governments and research centers; and
(d)
implementation by DGCPL, in coordination with the Guarantor’s Ministry of 
the Environment, of advisory services and technical assistance to facilitate private 
sector participation in solid waste management, and aiming at: (i) improving the 
regulatory, institutional, and procurement framework for private sector participation; 
(ii) improving the cost recovery system of investment and maintenance for landfills, 
transfer stations and collection of solid waste; and (iii) preparing the technical and 
environmental standards and authorizations for landfills and transfer stations 
required pursuant to the Guarantor’s legislation.
Part D:
The Training Center Program
Strengthening of the Training Center through the expansion of its activities and 
the development of new training areas, including the necessary construction, 
rehabilitation and equipment of its premises.
Part E:
Community Participation
Provision by DGCPL of training in participatory techniques to municipal staff 
and to the members of the CROP and EME, as required for the preparation and proper 
implementation of Microprojects under Part A (ii) of this Schedule 2.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
Page  15
A.
General Definitions
For the purposes of Section 2.05, the following terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
PIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
PIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“PIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the Paris interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in  
French Francs for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“PIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
Page  16
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
Paris interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in French Francs for value on the 
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate 
based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the Paris 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the PIBOR Base Rate, the 
PIBOR Total Spread, the Fixed Base Rate and the Fixed Total Spread applicable to each 
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after December 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Page  17
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works under 
Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works under Part A of the Project to 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods The provisions of 
paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
(b)
Notification and Advertising The invitation to bid for each contract 
estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance 
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
(i) Goods under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 
equivalent; and (ii) works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$170,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 (a) (ii) of this Part C, 
goods under Parts C, D and E of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
(a)
(i) Goods under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 
equivalent; and (ii) goods under Parts C, D and E of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Goods under Part B of the Project shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works Works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an amount not to exceed $30,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Community Participation Works required for Part A (ii) of the Project estimated 
to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an amount not to exceed 
$4,000,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Page  18
1.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Part B of this Section I; (ii) the first two (2) contracts for 
goods procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C of this 
Section I, irrespective of the estimated cost thereof; and (iii) the first two (2) 
contracts for works procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part 
C of this Section I, irrespective of the estimated cost thereof, and thereafter, each 
contract for works procured in accordance with the said provisions and estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more per contract, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
2.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for: (i) enhancement of Sub-project 
management by the Borrower under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract; (ii) strenghtening MOI under Parts C and E of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; and (iii) 
developing training activities under Part D of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for computerization of the Borrower and MOI under, respectively, Parts 
B and C of the Project, consisting of software acquisition and training, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for assistance of training advisers under Part D of the Project and for 
community participation under Part E of the Project, which meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
Page  19
strategic studies estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval have been given. 
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
Section I:
General 
1.
(a)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than March 31 and September 30 in each 
Fiscal Year, commencing on March 31, 1998 and until Project completion, prepare and 
furnish to the Guarantor for consolidation and submission to the Bank for its review, 
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
describing, in accordance with parameters acceptable to the Bank, the progress 
achieved in the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project during the preceding 
six (6) month period.
(b)
For the purposes of the preparation of the reports due March 31 in each 
Fiscal Year, the parameters to be utilized by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions 
of preceding paragraph (a) shall include the Municipal Performance Indicators 
evaluated on a yearly basis.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Municipal Performance Indicators, 
the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Guarantor for consolidation and submission to the Bank, on or about December 
31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to the preceding paragraph (a), on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of Parts A and B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Guarantor and the Bank, by June 30, 2000, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in the preceding paragraph (b), 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
Parts A and B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.
Page  20
Section II:
Part A of the Project 
1.
The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans 
shall be made to Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
the Annex to this Schedule. 
2.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project and 
Microproject in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and comply with its obligations under this 
Agreement.
3.
The Borrower shall: (i) coordinate and monitor the overall execution of Part A 
of the Project, appraise the Sub-projects and the Microprojects financed through 
Sub-loans made by it and supervise the carrying out thereof in accordance with the 
Operational Manual; and (ii) take all measures necessary to ensure that: (A) except as 
the Bank may otherwise agree, the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made for: (i) a 
single Sub-project under Part A (i) of the Project shall not exceed an amount 
equivalent to 10,000,000 Dinars; and (ii) a single Microproject under Part A (ii) of 
the Project shall not exceed an amount equivalent to 50,000 Dinars; and (B) each 
Sub-loan shall not exceed: (i) sixty percent (60%) of the cost of each Sub-project; 
and (ii) seventy percent (70%) of the cost of each Microproject.
4.
For the purposes of furthering the protection of the environment and enhancing 
the quality of the environmental review of Sub-projects and Microprojects, the 
Borrower shall: (i) appoint not later than December 31, 1997, under terms of reference 
and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, an environmental specialist with 
responsibility for the environmental review of Sub-projects and Microprojects and the 
environmental impact assessment for activities in all sub-sectors financed by the 
Borrower; and (ii) revise its Operational Manual so as to introduce, not later than 
December 31, 1998, the improved environmental requirements for Sub-projects and 
Microprojects, acceptable to the Bank, resulting from the duties carried out by the 
aforementioned environmental specialist. 
5.
(a)
The Borrower shall, on the basis, inter alia, of the findings and 
conclusions of the studies to be carried out under Part B of the Project, further 
amend, not later than December 31, 2000, the Operational Manual to reflect, in 
particular, improved technical, administrative, environmental and financial procedures 
governing the submission by local governments of requests for financing by the 
Borrower.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the improved environmental procedures 
contemplated by the amendment referred to in the preceding paragraph (a) are those 
resulting from the application by the Borrower, in the making of Sub-loans, of the 
criteria set forth in paragraph 2 (b) of Section II of the Annex to this Schedule and 
which have been evaluated by the Bank and the Borrower to be appropriate to enhance 
the environmental quality of the concerned Sub-projects.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
All principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Schedule 
shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 1 of Section II of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section I:
Terms
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be: (i) denominated in Dinars; and 
(ii) the equivalent in Dinars (determinated as of the date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn on account of the goods and works financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
for the Sub-project or the Microproject, as the case may be, for which such Sub-loan 
is made. 
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be charged interest, on the total principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate determined in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 4.07 of this Agreement. 
Page  21
3.
Each Sub-loan shall be made for a period not exceeding fifteen (15) years, 
inclusive of a grace period not exceeding one (1) year.
4.
Each Sub-loan shall be made on further terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, 
by written contract with the Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right 
to: 
(a)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations 
under its contract with the Borrower providing for the Sub-loan;
(b)
require the Beneficiary to maintain at all times the debt service 
coverage ratio referred to in subparagraph 1 (iii) of Section II of this Annex.
(c)
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Sub-project or the 
Microproject, as the case may be, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and practices, 
and appropriate health, safety and environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank, 
to maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities and other resources required for the purpose; 
(d)
require that: (i) the goods and works required for the Sub-project or the 
Microproject, as the case may be, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
and (ii) that such goods and works shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of 
the Sub-project or Microproject, as the case may be;
(e)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, such 
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the Sub-project or the 
Microproject, as the case may be, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents; 
(f)
require that: (i) the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(g)
require the Beneficiary to comply with any requirements and conditions 
for the protection of the environment as shall have been determined by ANPE, including 
those set forth in the Decree 91-362; and
(h)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations, and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project or 
Microproject, as the case may be.
Section II:
Conditions
1.
Each Sub-loan shall be made only to a Beneficiary which shall have established 
to the satisfaction of the Borrower on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the 
Bank that: (i) in respect of a Beneficiary other than a local government, it is 
creditworthy, and has a sound financial structure; (ii) it has the organization, 
management, staff and other resources required for the efficient carrying out and 
operation of the Sub-project or Microproject, as the case may be; (iii) it is in a 
position to maintain a debt service coverage ratio, calculated in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of the Operational Manual, equal at least to 1.3:1; and (iv) its 
projected financial resources shall be sufficient to enable it to meet the estimated 
expenditures required for the carrying out of the Sub-project or Microproject, as the 
case may be.
2.
(a)
Each Sub-loan shall be made only for a Sub-project or Microproject, as 
the case may be, which: (i) is determined to be technically feasible and financially 
Page  22
viable and designed in accordance with appropriate health, safety and environmental 
standards, including those set forth in the Decree 91-362; (ii) in the case of a 
Sub-project estimated to cost the equivalent of 1,000,000 Dinars or more, is 
calculated to have a financial rate of return and an economic rate of return of at 
least ten percent (10%); (iii) in the case of a Sub-project encompassing revenue 
generating activities, irrespective of the estimated cost thereof, is calculated to 
have a financial rate of return of at least ten percent (10%); and (iv) in respect of 
a Sub-project, is estimated to generate revenues adequate to cover the operating and 
maintenance costs thereof as they are incurred and to recover in progressive steps 
over an appropriate period of time a reasonable portion of the capital costs thereof, 
all as shall be determined and 
calculated by the Borrower in accordance with the relevant provisions of the 
Operational Manual.
(b)
Without any limitation upon the provisions of the preceding paragraph 
(a), in the case of a Sub-project consisting of the construction, rehabilitation 
and/or maintenance of a landfill site, the Borrower shall request the Beneficiary to 
provide, for submission to the Bank’s prior review and approval, evidence adequate to 
establish that: (i) a financing plan and cost recovery scheme in respect of the 
investment necessary for the Sub-project has been prepared; (ii) the economic 
justification for the zone of influence which the discharge of the Sub-project covers 
is adequate to assure the optimal economies of scale; (iii) the feasibility and 
implementation dossier of the site selected for the Sub-project is consistent with the 
adopted technical rules and optimizes the costs of the investment for the Sub-project 
by means of phased implementation or any other appropriate techniques; (iv) an 
operational plan for its operation defining the owner and its operator, the cost 
recovery measures, and, as applicable, the conditions for contracting out to the 
private sector, has been finalized; and (v) an environmental assessment report 
approved by the ANPE is available.
3.
No expenditures for goods and works required for a Sub-project or Microproject, 
as the case may be, shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan 
unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project or Microproject, as the case may be, 
shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not 
earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received 
the application and information required under paragraph 4 (a) of this Section; or 
(b)
the Sub-Loan for such Sub-project or Microproject, as the case may be, 
shall have been a free-limit Sub-Loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals 
from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 
ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the request 
and information required under paragraph 4 (b) of this Section in respect of such 
free-limit Sub-Loan.  For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall 
be a Sub-loan for: (A) a Sub-project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of 1,000,000 Dinars when added to any other 
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed of the proceeds of the Loan, 
the proceeds of which have been or are being used for financing goods and works 
directly and materially related to such Sub-Project; and (B) a Microproject. 
4.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Beneficiary and an 
appraisal of the Sub-Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of 
the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such 
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Sub-project or Microproject, as the case may be, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the amortization 
schedule therefor.  
(c)
(i) Applications made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 (a) of 
Page  23
this Section shall be presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 2002; and; (ii) 
requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 (b) of this Section shall be 
presented to the Bank on or before November 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 6 
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the provisions set forth or referred 
to in this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.02 (a) of this 
Agreement. 
2.
The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be the equivalent (determined 
as of the date or respective dates of repayment of the principal amount of the Loan 
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement) of the value of the currency or currencies 
withdrawn from the Loan Account on account of goods and services required for Parts C, 
D and E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated 
from time to time to Categories (2) (b) and (3) (b).
3.
The Subsidiary Loan shall be: (i) denominated in French Francs; (ii) charged on 
the principal amount not withdrawn from time to time a commitment charge at the rate 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement; (iii) charged on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time interest at the rate applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and (iv) repaid in accordance with 
an amortization schedule calculated to have a maturity not exceeding the maturity of 
the Loan, inclusive of a grace period of three (3) years.
