Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4202-TUN
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Municipal Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 24, 1997 
LOAN NUMBER 4202 TUN 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1997, between the REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the 
Guarantor) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and the CAISSE DES PRETS ET DE SOUTIEN DES 
COLLECTIVITES LOCALES (the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in an amount equal to 
four hundred fifty-two million eight hundred thousand French Francs (FRF452,800,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition 
that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of 
such loan as provided in this Agreement and to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(C)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Guarantor 
and the Borrower, a portion of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to the Guarantor on the terms and conditions set 
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration 
of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to 
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower and to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term 
“Institutional Performance Indicators” means the agreed Performance Indicators set 
forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Guarantor to measure the 
progress in the carrying out of Parts C, D and E of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved.
ARTICLE II 
Guarantee 
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, it hereby 
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and 
punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and 
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the Loan 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of Parts C, D and E of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out, or cause to be carried out, Parts C, D, and E of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, 
environmental, financial, municipal and technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Parts C, D and E of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall 
carry out Parts C, D and E of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for Parts C, D and E of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Guarantee Agreement 
and Parts C, D and E of the Project.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Guarantor shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of Parts C, D and E of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Guarantor on said plan.
Page  3
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.06. (a) The Guarantor shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts C, D and E of the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the Loan.
(b)
The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts C, D and E of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the 
Guarantor of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Other Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts C, D and E of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Guarantor responsible for carrying out Parts C, 
D and E of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Guarantor shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such Year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request. 
Section 4.02. The Guarantor shall at all times take all adequate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to permit the Borrower to protect itself against risk of loss 
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including the 
Dinar) used in its operations. 
Section 4.03. The Guarantor agrees, as long as it exercises control over the 
setting of interest rates charged by the Borrower, to establish rates which would 
allow the Borrower, under conditions of efficient operation, to meet its financial 
obligations and covenants under the Loan Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Guarantor shall take all action required on its behalf to 
submit to the vote of its Chamber of Deputies, not later than December 31, 1997, a 
draft law, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, amending the provisions of 
Article 3 of the Guarantor’s Law No. 75-36 dated May 14, 1975 in order to modify the 
existing distribution criteria of the Fonds Commun des Collectivités Locales to make 
them more equitable and allow the poorer local governments to mobilize the resources 
necessary to their development.
ARTICLE V 
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses 
Section 5.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment 
of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of 
Page  4
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of International Cooperation
  and Foreign Investment
98, Avenue Mohamed V
1002 Tunis-Belvédère
Republic of Tunisia
Cable address: 
Telex:
MCIIE
18060
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China, as of the 
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Mohamed Ghannouchi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Guarantor shall, not later than May 31 and November 30 in each Fiscal 
Year, commencing on May 31, 1998 and until Project completion, prepare and furnish to 
the Bank for its review a global report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request: (i) describing, in accordance with parameters acceptable to 
Page  5
the Bank, the progress achieved by the Guarantor in the implementation of Parts C, D 
and E of the Project during the preceding six (6) month period; and (ii) consolidating 
and integrating the report prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement and describing the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of Parts A and B of the 
Project during the preceding six (6) month period.
(b)
For the purposes of the preparation of the global reports due May 31 in 
each Fiscal Year, the parameters to be utilized by the Guarantor pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph (a) shall include the Institutional Performance 
Indicators evaluated on a yearly basis.
2.
The Guarantor shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Institutional Performance 
Indicators, the carrying out of Parts C, D and E of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 1999, a global report integrating: (i) the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to the 
preceding paragraph (a), on the progress achieved by the Guarantor in the carrying out 
of Parts C, D and E of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Parts 
C, D and E of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and (ii) the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 2 (a) of Section I of 
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, on the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of Parts A and B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank and the Borrower, by June 30, 2000, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the global report referred to in the preceding 
paragraph (b), and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Parts C, D and E of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank 
views on the matter.
3.
For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, the Guarantor shall 
maintain throughout Project implementation a Project Coordinator within MOI, under 
appropriate terms of reference and with suitable qualifications and experience, 
responsible for: (i) the coordination of all Project activities, and among the 
Borrower, DGCPL, DGAR and the Training Center; (ii) the overall monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project; and (iii) the preparation, consolidation and integration of 
the progress and mid-term review global reports referred to in the aforementioned 
paragraphs for submission to the Bank.
4.
The Guarantor shall, not later than March 31, 1998, furnish to the Bank for its 
review and approval, an implementation plan regarding Parts A (ii) and E of the 
Project and describing:
(a)
the strategy for extending the program under Part E of the Project, said 
strategy to be limited to four (4) neighboring governorates of the Guarantor during 
the first two (2) years of Project implementation and, thereafter, to be expanded to a 
feasible number of governorates, towns and neighborhoods (quartiers);
(b)
criteria to select: (i) the disadvantaged urban or peri-urban 
neighborhoods in which to carry out Microprojects; and (ii) the governorates, towns 
and neighbourhoods (quartiers) to benefit from the implementation of Parts A (ii) and 
E of the Project;
(c)
implementation modalities of the training program under Part E of the 
Project adequate to ensure its satisfactory execution; and
Page  6
(d)
envisaged arrangements required for the financial management of 
Microprojects, including proposals for monitoring and use of the proceeds of the Loan 
at the communal level under the Microprojects.
