Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16569-VN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOREST PROTECTION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 23, 1997
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of September 4, 1997)
Currency Unit                      =   Vietnamese Dong
US$1.00                            =   Dong 11,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAG               Commune Advisory Group
CAP               Commune Action Plan
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CMRNR             Chu Morn Ray Nature Reserve
CPC               Commune People's Committee
CTNP              Cat T ien National Park
CTNPCP            Cat Tien National Park Conservation Project
CWG               Commuine Working Group
DAFS              District Agriculture and Forestry Service
DLA               Department of Land Administration
EPC               Environiment Protection Center
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
EMDP              Ethnic Minorities Development Plan
FIPI              Forest Inventory and Planning Institute
FPD               Forest Protection Department
FPB               Forest lProtection Branch
FRR               Financial Rate of Return
GDLA              General Department of Land Administration
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
C,OV              Government of Vietnam
lia               hectare
HCMC              Ho Clii Minh City
IiH               Households
IHYV              High Yield Variety
IDA               International Development Association
km                kilometer
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MARD              Ministr- of Agriculture and Rural Development
NIAPP             National Institute of Agricultural Planning and Projection
PA                Protected Area
PAP               Project Affected Persons
I'ARDS            Provincial Agriculture and Rural Development Service
PEC/DEC           Provincial Extension Center/District Extension Center
PiM               Project lImplementation Manual
PMU               Project Management Unit
PPC               Provincial People's Committee
PPMU              Provincial Project Management Unit
PPSC              Provincial Project Steering Committee
PRA               Participatory Rural Appraisal
PSC               Project Steering Committee
PY                Project Year
SDP               Standard Disbursement Profile
SFE               State Forest Enterprises
SOE               Statement of Expenditure
SSG               Social Support Grants
[IOR              Terms of Reference
VBA&RD            Vietnam Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development
VNNEAP            Vietnam National Environmental Action Plan
WWF               World Wide Fund for Nature
FISCAL YEAR
Government:      January I - December 31
IDA:             July I - June 30
Vice President                         Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director. Vietnarn             Andrew Steer, EACVF
Manager                            :   Geoffrey Fox, EASRD
Staff Member                           Susan Shen, Senior Ecologist. I.ASRD



THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOREST PROTECTION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                         The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Implementing Agencies:            Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development,
local government in Kon Tum, Dak Lak, Dong Nai, Lam
Dong and Binh Phuoc provinces, and communities in the
project area.
Beneficiaries:                    Not applicable.
Poverty Category:                 Program of targeted interventions.
The project will benefit villagers in 40 communes/towns,
many classified as living below poverty level. The
project also incorporates specific measures to safeguard
the interests of ethnic minorities and other vulnerable
populations.
Amount:                           SDR 15.9 million (US$21.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                            Standard IDA, with 40 years' maturity and 10 years of
grace.
Commitment Fee:                   0.5% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:                  Not applicable
Financing Plan:                   See Table 3.2
Economic Rate of Return:          A  minimum  of 13  percent for productive  rural
development activities in the buffer zone.
Staff Appraisal Report:           Report No. 1 6569-VN
Map:                              IBRD 28680
Project Identification No:        4839






THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOREST PROTECTION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary ..............................................................i
1. BACKGROUND ....................................................... .1
A. COUNTRY ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL SITUATION .......................................................1I
B. THE NATURAL RESOURCE AND ENVIRONMENT SITUATION ......................................................I
C. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK ........................................................                         2
D. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK .......................................................3
E. RATIONALE FOR IDA  INVOLVEMENT ........................................................4
F. LESSONS LEARNED .......................................................5
G. PROJECT PREPARATION PROCESS .......................................................6
2. THE PROJECT ........................................................8
A. PROJECT AREAS AND PARTICIPANTS .......................................................8
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................9
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ........................................................1 0
3. PROJECT COSTS AND  FINANCING ........................................................7
A. PROJECT COSTS ....................................................... 1 7
B. FINANCING  ....................................................... 18
C. PROCUREMENT ....................................................... 18
D. DISBURSEMENT .......................................................                                                   23
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS .......................................................                                            24
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ....................................................... 26
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION STRUCTURES AND RESPONSIBILITIES ............................................. 26
B. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ....................................................... 28
C. MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND REPORTING ARRANGEMENTS ........................... ................ 28
5. PROJECT IMPACTS AND  JUSTIFICATION                                        .................................................. 30
A. BENEFITS .......................................................                                                       30
B. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .......................................................                                           32
C. SOCIAL IMPACT ....................................................... 33
D. SUSTAINABILITY ....................................................... 34
E. PROJECT RISKS ....................................................... 35
The project was appraised by a Task Team consisting of Messrs./Mrnes. Susan Shen (Task Team Leader),
Choeng-Hoy Chung (Senior Economist), Lars Lund (Sociologist), David Sislen (Projects Assistant),
Nguyen Chien Thang (Operations Officer) and Roland Van Asch (Rural Development/Institutions
Specialist, consultant). Other task team members include Rob Crooks (Environmental Specialist), Carlos
Escudero  (Country  Lawyer),  and  Gaye  Lindsey  (Senior  Disbursement Officer).    Herman  Cesar
(Environmental Economist), Nancy Barrett (Program Assistant), and Glenn Morgan (Land Management
Specialist) also made contributions. Augusta Molnar (LASLG), Charles Maguire (AGRAF), and Louise
Scura (ENVDR) were the peer reviewers. The Manager is Geoffrey Fox (EASRD) and the Country
Director, Vietnam is Andrew Steer (EACVF). Task assistance was provided by Kathryn Cherrie.



- 111 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..............                     .............................. 37
A. AGREEMENTS ............................................ 37
B. RECOMMENDATION ............................................                            39
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 2.1 - Project Area .............................................                             9
Table 3.1 - Summary of Project Costs by Component ............................................. 17
Table 3.2 - Project Financing Plan by Component .............................................     18
Table 3.3 - Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .............................................  19
Table 3.4 - Disbursement Categories ............................................. 23
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Participatory Preparation Process
Annex 2: Dutch-funded Cat Tien National Park Conservation Project Activities
Annex 3: Project Communities
Annex 4: Project Performance Monitoring Indicators
Annex 5: Description of Community Development Planning and Participation
Annex 6: Guidelines for Social Support Grants
Annex 7: Summary Cost Tables
Annex 8: Procurement Package and Scheduling
Annex 9: Disbursement Schedule
Annex 10: Project Management - Draft Terms of Reference
Annex 11: Project Organization Chart
Annex 12: Summary of Technical Assistance Required
Annex 13: Summary of Implementation Schedule & Outline of Project
Implementation Manual
Annex 14: Bank Supervision Plan
Annex 15: Project Economic Analysis
Annex 16: Summary of Environment Review
Annex 17: Documents in Project File
MAP IBRD 28680



1. BACKGROUND
A. COUNTRY ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL SITUATION
1.1   Growth and development in Vietnam is in transition. Emerging from the Soviet
influence of the 1980's, Vietnam is changing from a centralized, largely controlled
socialist economy to one that is primarily market driven. Despite a period of successful
macroeconomic reforms, Vietnam remains a densely populated and poor country largely
dependent on natural resources for its economic well-being. Per capita income in
Vietnam, estimated at less than US$250 per annum, makes it one of the poorest countries
in the world. Rural poverty is estimated at 57 percent, more than double the 26 percent
rate for the urban areas. With about 80 percent of its approximate population of 75
million living in the rural areas, Vietnam is very dependent on its agriculture and natural
resources, which account for almost 30 percent of GDP and 60 percent of merchandise
exports. Approximately 73 percent of the total labor force is employed in the sector, and
this dependency and the high population pressure on scarce arable land are exerting
tremendous pressure on the country's natural resource base.
B. THE NATURAL RESOURCE AND ENVIRONMENT SITUATION
1.2   One of Vietnam's primary natural resources is forests. Vietnam's natural forest
cover has declined from 67 percent of total land area in the 1940s to roughly 26 percent
(1993). The total area of natural forests has been declining at an estimated average rate of
350,000 hectare (ha) per year in recent years. Of the 19 million ha of land currently
classified as forest land, some 13 million ha is largely denuded former forests with low
agricultural productivity and is twice the area under existing cultivation. Only 1.0 million
ha contain medium to rich quality forests. These forests contain a wealth of plant species,
many of which are endemic, confined to small geographical ranges, and occur in low
numbers. Of the world's identified vascular plants, 10 percent are believed to be endemic
to Vietnam. These forests also contain the highest avian and primate diversity in
mainland Southeast Asia. Within the past two years, two new mammal species, the Vu
Quang Ox and the Giant Muntjac (a deer) were discovered in the upland forest of two
Central Highland provinces. Before these discoveries, only three other mammals had
been discovered in this century (Okapi in Zaire in 1906, Kouprey in Indochina in 1937,
and Chocoan Peccary in Paraguay in 1975). Many scientists believe that the potential for
more new discoveries remains high particularly in the border areas with Cambodia and
Lao PDR.



- 2 -
1.3    The leading cause of forest land degradation (shifting cultivation and arable land
expansion) are primarily attributable to population pressure'. Population growth has been
the highest in the north where the land per unit of rural population is 0.06 ha (compared
to the national average of 0.13 ha, which already ranks among the lowest in the world);
the natural population growth rate is about 3.0 percent per annum; and forest cover is
down to about 10 percent of the land area. High levels of under-employment, low per
capita income, and extreme difficulties in meeting basic needs have been the
consequence.  Since hill areas account for three-fourths of the country, cultivation
pressure has invariably risen in sloping areas, swidden/shifting agriculture is taking place
under substantially shortened fallow cycles, and erosion has increased substantially. The
"push" for migration from the north is therefore intensifying.
1.4    The Central Highlands, with Vietnam's lowest population density and last
remaining intact forests with the high concentrations of high-value biodiversity, are
presently experiencing population growth rates of between 6 to 8 percent per annum.
Population migration, which had hitherto been controlled, has been "spontaneous" since
1989. Without a concerted effort to address the situation, the migration push from the
north to these areas could result in severe environmental and social impacts. Not only
valuable biodiversity, but rare forest ecosystems, will be adversely affected: the carbon
sequestering effects of forests will be reduced, critical watersheds will be destroyed, and
local climatic changes, increasingly being attributed to the above degradation processes,
will intensify. Socially, serious disruption of ethnic minority livelihood could result.
C. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
1.5    The Government of Vietnam's (GOV's) concern and priority it assigned to
addressing natural resource and environmental degradation is expressed in a number of
documents, legislation and programs. The most important of which is the Vietnam
National Environmental Action Plan (VNNEAP), August 1995, which forms the basis for
Vietnam's current and future activities in environmental matters. One of the four priority
programs for natural resource management identified in the VNNEAP is upland forest
conservation and management for biodiversity and watershed protection. In addition, 4
other documents describe in greater detail GOV's strategy on forest protection and
biodiversity conservation - National Conservation Strategy (1984); Tropical Forestry
Action Plan (1991); the National Plan for Environment and Sustainable Development
(1991); and Vietnam Biodiversity Action Plan (1995). Within this framework a major
emphasis is on protection of viable examples of all major forest ecosystems within a
national system of protected areas (PAs) of national parks and nature reserves. Currently,
87 PAs covering some 1.08 million ha, have been designated. Government also
recognizes that in addition to protection measures, the sustainability of the PA system
Other key forest/forest land degradation sources include: (i) fuelwood consumption (widespread with
scattered tree cutting); (ii) commercial logging (significantly reduced since 1991 with introduction of
bans on export of roundwood and sawn timber from natural forests); and (c) fire damage.



- 3 -
requires addressing the reasons for dependence on forest encroachment--poverty and food
insecurity.
1.6   A number of laws and regulations on forest resource use and protection exist. The
most important is the 1991 Forestry Resource Protection and Development Act which
established three categories of forest land (i) protection forest (critical watersheds and
wetlands); (ii) special use forests (protected areas); and (iii) production forests. A
number of Implementing Decrees to strengthen forest protection including PAs were also
issued that, among other things, specify the management principles of each forest
category; the separation of forest protection from production; disengagement of the role
of forest enterprise; and allocation of forest land to local users. A noteworthy regulation
is Decree 327, issued in 1992, which sets out guidelines for a 10-year program aimed to
protect forests and develop denuded or barren forest lands. This program was launched in
1993 with a US$68 million equivalent budgeted in the first year and between US$ 50-60
million in subsequent years. Despite significant investments, the 327 Program has been
criticized for being too broad in scope thus reducing the likelihood of significant impacts
of any investments. To remedy this, Decree 556 was issued in 1995 to replace 327 and
target assistance more effectively and narrowly to activities directly related to PA,
protection forests, and buffer zones. A number of other socio-economic programs have
also been introduced since 1992. These include Program 120 for employment promotion
and programs to fight hunger and poverty including nutrition, literacy, and subsidies or
provision of basic goods. However, these have mainly bypassed the more remote
districts and have not been implemented in conjunction with forest protection.
1.7   Although the 327/556 programs have contributed to the overall strengthening of
forest protection, the current PA system still suffers from the following: (i) weak
enforcement; (ii) shortage of staff, (iii) inadequate investments, and (iv) lack of influence
on land use and people living in areas adjacent to the PAs (or buffer zone). Moreover, the
absence of a comprehensive plan (i.e., management plan) to guide protection,
management, and use of the PA has led to inefficient use of scarce human and financial
resources. Although national parks and some nature reserves have management plans,
they either are out-of-date or lack implementation detail and clarity. In addition,
population growth and in-migration into areas surrounding PAs have increased the
demands on limited resource base. Furthermore, the population in the buffer areas tends
to be extremely poor. Balancing PA conservation and the need to improve the livelihood
of the buffer zone population will require implementation of innovative conservation
strategies and closer collaboration between various levels of government and between
government staff and local people.
D. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
1.8   At the national level, the institutional framework for natural resource management
is in a state of transition as organizational structures are adapted or created to deal with
the demands for management of an increasingly market-oriented economy. The Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD) which has overall responsibility for the



- 4 -
natural resource sector was created in late 1995 by merging three former ministries
(Agriculture and Food Industries, Forestry, and Water Resources Development).
Although the structure has been established, the allocation of functions and
responsibilities between departments are still being formulated. The merging of three
sub-sectors, however, is expected to strengthen inter-linkages and multi-sector
approaches to resource management.
1.9   Within MARD, the Forest Protection Department (FPD) is responsible for all
protection activities, including those which take place in PAs. More specifically, FPD is
charged with monitoring enforcement of law, policies and regulations concerning forest
protection and management and transport of forest products. It also promotes public
awareness, undertakes management audits, and administers some 8,000 field staff
throughout the country. This structure is replicated throughout the country through
Forest Protection Branches (FPB) at provincial and district levels. Provincial Agriculture
and Forestry Departments and District Agriculture and Forestry Services provide service
functions as opposed to the control functions of FPB. PAFDs are now being restructured
as Provincial Agriculture and Rural Development Service (PARDS) combining
agriculture, forestry, inland fisheries, and water resource activities. PA management at
the field level is the responsibility of a Management Board headed by a Director which
reports to the FPB in the case of nature reserves and jointly to FPB and FPD for national
parks (since the national government provides some funding).  A multitude of
government agencies is responsible for activities in the buffer zone including PARDS,
provincial Transport and Communications Department, and Department of Land
Administration (DLA). Many of the PAs are adjacent to State Forest Enterprises (SFE)
which are responsible for management of all production forest land and which also
provide social service and community development functions. In this respect, SFEs
overlap in function with local governments. The activities of all these entities are
supposed to be coordinated by Provincial People's Committees. The effectiveness of
such coordination varies between provinces.
E. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
1.10  The importance of sustainable use of natural resources is one of the five key areas
of emphasis in IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Vietnam discussed at the
Board November 21, 1995 and in the progress report discussed December 23, 1996. The
CAS also singled out deforestation as a critical issue for environmental action. Halting
natural resources degradation is also a key element of the Bank's rural development
strategy--Vision to Action: Rural Sector Strategy. Vietnam is one of 15 focal countries
for implementation of this rural action plan. IDA's involvement in this sector began in
1992 through the development of the environment report, "Environmental Program and
Policy Priorities for a Socialist Economy in Transition" (1995) and subsequent
development of the VNNEAP. One major outcome of the IDA environment sector work
is a recognition on the part of Government of the multidimensional and multisectoral
nature of natural resource and environment degradation. Government has also recognized
the need for outside assistance in addressing a number of difficult issues such as



- 5 -
community participation in development; land settlement, tenure rights and reform; state
enterprise reform; and interagency coordination, all of which are critical issues in
addressing loss of natural forests. The Association is assisting with macroeconomic
management and external aid coordination and has carried out analytical work in support
of the reform program with studies not only on the environment but also poverty,
financial sector, transport, agricultural marketing and water resources management. It is
against this background that Government has requested Bank assistance in strengthening
current efforts in protecting forests. In addition, there are a number of small-scale pilot
initiatives in many parts of Vietnam, supported by bilateral donors and NGOs (especially
from Sweden, Germany, Denmark, Finland, UK, the Netherlands, Australia) from which
lessons for larger scale replication can be learned particularly with regard to participatory
community planning. IDA is in the best position to facilitate this process, which will
involve not only project initiatives but also the resolution of key policy issues that are
systemic in nature.
F. LESSONS LEARNED
1.11  Lessons from Recent IDA Involvement In Vietnam. Other than the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project, which has been under implementation for less than two years,
there is practically no experience to draw on for lessons learned in the natural
resources/environment sector in Vietnam.   However, IDA  is involved in the
implementation of eleven projects and a Structural Adjustment Credit in Vietnam, most
of which are in the early stages of implementation. A second implementation review of
IDA operations, carried out in September 1996, found the portfolio is performing
satisfactorily considering the early stage of large donor project implementation. However,
some implementation problems have emerged that are generic in nature and could
become obstacles to implementation of the proposed project. Those that are relevant to
this project include inadequate local budgetary allocations, non-codified procurement
procedures, cumbersome fund flow arrangements, weak accounting and auditing
capacity, and absence of project monitoring. To overcome these obstacles, a 21-point
plan of action was agreed with Government which will be jointly monitored at regular
intervals. These actions include more training in procurement and project management
of project staff to be provided by the Resident Mission; issuance of implementing decrees
related to budgeting for ODA-linked projects to ensure adequate and timely provision of
counterpart funds; and regulations relating to national procurement procedures reflecting
international practices. In addition, the proposed project has included significant project
management technical assistance to assist in management, establishment of sound and
efficient financial management practices, and establishment of a project monitoring and
evaluation system.
1.12 Lessons From Bank/IDA Experience in Asia. The main lesson in PA
management in Asia (and elsewhere) is that traditional park management of strengthening
protection alone is insufficient and that there is a need to also address reasons for
encroachment. Lessons from other Bank projects being prepared and implemented in the
Asia region that integrate PA conservation with development (or ICDPs) are noteworthy



- 6 -
and were incorporated into project design. One set of prerequisites for successful project
development concerns the need to have substantially developed a shared vision and
objectives and the selection of appropriate sites and beneficiaries. These prerequisites
have been established for the project through the VNNEAP process, IDA's policy and
project workshops for forestry and natural resource management, and the project
preparation process which has involved local governrnents from the start. Other lessons
to be noted are the need for involvement of the local community in project preparation
and implementation; for project preparation to be process driven; and for carrying out
indicative planning exercise during preparation as a means of testing and validating
project activities and approaches to community participation.
1.13  Lessons From Non-Bank ICDP Projects also indicate thatfirst, it is not enough
for programs aimed at communities living adjacent to the PAs to be predicated on the
assumption that improving incomes alone will relieve the pressure on conservation forest
incursion. They must include PA protection as an explicit objective and there must be
strong simultaneous demarcation and protection of the PA.  Such a multi-faceted
approach is needed because the self interest of buffer villagers must be taken into account
in the joint protection process. Those that have been deriving benefits from the forest on
their own account or on behalf of others (e.g., as agents of speculators and wildlife
traders) will not readily agree to discontinue their past behavior unless (i) they are
compensated for it or (ii) the cost of continuing their activities are made prohibitive.
Second, joint consultation and participation of the affected villagers is necessary for
successful joint forest protection and for sustainability in the protection process. In
Vietnam, pilot initiatives under the 327 Program in a number of provinces (e.g., Yok Don
National Park) have demonstrated the viability of allocating protection parcels at the
fringe of PAs to local people with priority being given to the poor and landless.
Assistance in longer term income improvement opportunities are given to secure their
participation in joint protection.
G. PROJECT PREPARATION PROCESS
1.14  Participatory Process.  Preparation for the project has emphasized client
ownership (particularly at the provincial and commune levels), local participation, and
public consultation.  A wide range of groups, organizations and individuals were
consulted by the preparation team  comprising   government staff and local and
international consultants. Four formal stakeholder workshops were held at various stages
of preparation to finalize site selection; develop a shared vision and common objectives;
and facilitate communications and exchange of views on project design and
implementation arrangements. Three formal meetings were held with non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) interested in the proposed project. Inputs from the grassroots level
and project beneficiaries were solicited through provincial-level representatives; through
participatory rural appraisal (PRA) and the indicative planning exercise carried out in two
project communes; and through field visits by the preparation team and World Bank
mission. Finally, numerous informal meetings were held to validate findings and
disseminate information (see Annex 1 for more detail).



- 7 -
1.15  Site Selection Criteria.  In close consultation with provincial governments,
MARD selected project sites from a list of 12 high "A" priority PAs identified in the
Vietnam Biodiversity Action Plan. "A" level PAs are those containing biodiversity of
international significance that need immediate protection. From that list, final selection
was based on the following considerations: (i) high percentage of natural forests in the
buffer zones to apply different management strategies; (ii) variation of threats and
socioeconomic conditions to test different interventions; and (iii) strong interest and
commitment of local authorities and communities to the objectives of the proposed
project. As a result, two sites were selected, one in the Central Highlands where the
threats are still low and manageable but where ethnic minorities dominate (Chu Mom
Ray Nature Reserve or CMRNR) and the other in the lower central and southern
provinces where the threats are severe and complex and multiple provinces fringe the PA
[Cat Tien National Park (CTNP)].



0



- 8 -
2. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT AREAS AND PARTICIPANTS
2.1    The project area includes Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve (CMRNR), Cat Tien
National Park (CTNP), and a surrounding area of agricultural and forestry land (buffer
zone). Because an existing Dutch-funded project, Cat Tien National Park Conservation
Project (CTNPCP)2, is addressing the strengthening of the protected area management,
the project will support only buffer zone community development activities at CTNP,
closely coordinated with the CTNPCP. (Annex 2 summarizes the interventions being
applied by CTNPCP.) The project will support both PA protection and buffer zone
activities at CMRNR. Buffer zone has been defined as a continuous band of those
communes adjacent to the PAs of CTNP and CMRNR. The buffer zone also includes
additional contiguous communes within 3 kilometers (km) of the PA in which human
population may present an actual or potential threat to biodiversity conservation. This
definition was adopted because the commune is the smallest administrative unit in the
Vietnamese administrative system through which project activities can be effectively
managed.
2.2    CMRNR is located in Kon Tum Province and currently covers an area of
approximately 48,658 ha. It is proposed that the boundaries of CMRNR would expand
under the project to include a total area of 57,500 ha based on further surveys. CTNP is
comprised of 3 PAs in Dong Nai, Lam Dong and Binh Phuoc Provinces totaling 74,319
ha--Nam Cat Tien National Park, Cat Loc Nature Reserve, and Tay Cat Tien Nature
Reserve, respectively. These 3 PAs will be managed as one national park based on a
recent decision by GOV. The buffer zone for CTNP has a population of approximately
170,000 people in 30 communes and two district towns. Two communes in Dak Lak
Province are included in the CTNP project area as they are adjacent to Cat Loc Nature
Reserve. The buffer zone for CMRNR has approximately 20,000 people in 7 communes
and 1 district town. (Table 2.1). See Annex 3 for a list of project communes and
breakdown of ethnic groups.
2   CTNPCP is a US$6.9 million, five year project funded by the Netherlands Government and executed
by MARD with assistance from World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and CARE International.
Major focus is on strengthening park protection and working with villagers living inside but along the
boundary of the Park. It was recognized that CTNPCP could not cover the entire zone of influence on
the Park and that additional actions are urgently needed to fill this gap. Project preparation liaised
closely with CTNPCP to ensure complementary of activities that are mutually reinforcing. CTNPCP
will start implementation in mid-1997 and is expected to lay the ground work for commune action
plan formulation and delivery of buffer zone goods and services under the proposed project.



9-
Table 2.1 Project Area
Protected Area         Area (ha)                     Buffer Zone
Population     Total Area    Forest Cover
CTNP                         74,319         170,000        1,842km'        1,240km"
CMRNR                       48,6583          20,000        2,145 km2       1,900 km2
2.3    Many of the households in these communes are classified as poor and very poor
by Vietnamnese standards and most suffer from food insecurity during part of the year.
Many of these families depend on the extraction of forest products for at least part of the
year for subsistence consumption or to generate small amounts of cash income.
Officially, all land belongs to the State but can be managed, according to land use
classification, by registered land users following cadastral mapping and issuance of Land
Use Rights Certificate under the Land Law. In practice, land allocation is being
hampered by lack of official clarification of whether denuded forest land can be
converted to agriculture land use. Moreover, the rate of allocation of land has been slow
and most of the isolated communes in the project area do not have any official land tenure
for their inhabitants.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.4    The overall objective of the project is to assist GOV to protect and manage natural
forests with high biodiversity. More specifically, the main development objectives of this
project are:
(a)  the effective protection of CTNP4 and effective protection and management of
CMRNR;
(b) the effective management of remaining natural forests outside the PAs but
within the buffer zone of CTNP and CMRNR;
3   During phase one revision of the management plan, the area of CMRNR would expand to
approximately 57,500 ha. Potential inclusion of another 85,000 ha is expected after additional
surveys are done in year 3.
4   Since PA management activities are being financed under a separate project, CTNPCP, and is not
under the direct influence of the proposed project, the development objective can only address
strengthening protection through buffer zone activities to alleviate pressure on the PA.



- 10-
(c) the reduction in dependency on CTNP and CMRNR for subsistence and cash
income by improving the livelihood status of residents in the buffer zone; and
(d) the strengthening of capacity of government to effectively design, implement,
and monitor ICDPs.
2.5   Within this framework of development objectives, a matrix of performance
indicators has been agreed upon for the purposes of project monitoring and impact
evaluation (see Annex 4 for the full matrix). Agreement was obtained at negotiations that
a supplemental letter will be signed with the Development Credit Agreement indicating
the performance indicators which will be the basis for project monitoring. In terms of
impact indicators, the four most important are:
(a)  reduced unwarranted fires, illegal harvesting and transport of products and
wildlife from PAs and protection forests (buffer zone);
(b) reduced proportion of people in buffer zone communes facing food security
problems by 25 percent;
(c)  reduced area under "barren land" or denuded forest scrubland by 50 percent; and
(d) incorporation of design and approach pioneered by the project into government
policies and programs for forest protection.
While proxy measures of the above will be used, it should be noted that, unlike
conventional projects with clear component outputs that can be easily programmed before
project start-up, the participatory nature of the project means that the implementation
timeframe of most buffer zone activities cannot be easily predicted in advance.
Furthermore, a large number of impacts at the output level will not be amenable to
quantitative measurement.  Judgmental assessments (like the qualitative survey of
appropriate stakeholders) will, therefore, be equally important.
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.6   To achieve the above objectives, the project will help finance, over a period of
six years from 1998 to 2003, the following main components and subcomponents:
Component One: Protected Area Management for CMRNR (Baseline Costs US$
3.38 million)
2.7   This component will provide for:
revision of the existing Management Plan for CMRNR in two phases, including,
during the first phase, adjustment of boundaries to include an additional 8,800
ha of surrounding natural forest with high biodiversity value, definition of
management zones, formulation of management programs for each zone, visitor



program, formulation of PA regulations, preparation of detailed cost estimates,
and the approval process for adoption of the revised Plan. The second phase
will assess the possibility of including an additional 85,000 ha to the west and
south based on results of additional surveys in year 3 of implementation and
revision of the management plan if needed. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the draft revised management plans for CMRNR and CTNP
would be submitted to IDA for review and comments by January 31, 1999.
implementation of the revised Management Plan including boundary
demarcation, introduction of PA management programs, supporting basic
infrastructure such as PA headquarters facilities (700 m 2), visitor center (200
m2), guardposts (7 x 100 m2) and control points (none exist at present), and
access trails to facilitate management and patrolling (48 km of tracks). Basic
equipment include office furnishing, communications equipment, vehicles and
motorcycles will be provided;
implementation of selected research studies and surveys, particularly
documenting the use of and value placed on biodiversity by ethnic minorities,
and collection of periodic  biophysical and socio-economic data and
development of baseline maps and permanent sampling transects for
management, monitoring and evaluation purposes.
* formulation and implementation of a public awareness campaign in the
CMRNR buffer zone to develop an appreciation of benefits and support for
conservation activities and promote interactions between PA administration and
buffer zone communities;
development of programmes to encourage and manage nature tourism (or eco-
tourism) in the PA and buffer zone as a means of raising awareness of
conservation benefits and generating revenues to local people and the PA. This
includes development of eco-tourism and marketing plan and provision of
training and basic equipment to participating villages. Care will be taken to
ensure that tourism activities do not compromise the biodiversity conservation
objective of the project;
training of PA staff including guards and management personnel to raise skill
levels and prepare staff to support the intensified conservation management and
visitor programmes. Training courses will be conducted in Vietnam and
selected senior staff will attend short courses at regional conservation
institutions.



- 12-
Component Two: Buffer Zone Development (Baseline Costs US$21.55 million)
2.8   This component has been designed to reduce the incursion pressure on the PAs by
increasing incomes, providing land tenure, and enhancing the management and use of
existing natural forests in the buffer zone. This component will be implemented in a
similar manner in both CTNP and CMRNR and would adopt a participatory, process-
oriented approach to derive commune action plans (CAPs) for rural development in the
buffer communities. The CAP constitutes the focal point around which the following six
sub-components will be implemented.
Subcomponent (a): Community Development Planning.
2.9   The main objective of this subcomponent is to establish, for each project
commune, the capacity and conditions for implementing a participatory planning process
and prepare a CAP that will include an agreement between PA management and the
commune. It will support the application of participatory rural appraisal (PRA) methods
to identify essential social support services and associated activities such as land
allocation, access to essential health and education services, and rural development
interventions. These services should improve incomes and generate employment
opportunities, especially for the poorer households and ethnic minorities living adjoining
the PAs. To do this, the project will support the services of a Commune Advisory Group
(CAG) and the establishment of a Commune Working Group (CWG) at each
participating buffer zone commune. The CAG, in conjunction with relevant field staff,
will (i) carry-out the PRA; (ii) assess the feasibility of development needs identified by
the commune and provide more appropriate options for consideration; and (iii) assist the
CWG in monitoring the implementation of the CAP. The CWG will represent the
commune in (i) negotiations with the entities providing support services; (ii) finalizing a
conservation agreement based on the CAP; and (iii) monitoring CAP implementation.
2.10  Funding to implement the CAP will be conditional on commitments by the
community to undertake conservation measures, make counterpart contributions, ensure
maintenance of project investments, and not adversely affect the PA. More specifically, a
conservation agreement - to which the negotiated CAP and its obligations will be
attached - will be entered into with Chairperson of the CWG (on behalf of the community
as a whole), mass (grassroots) organizations, the Director of the adjacent PA, and
provincial Project Management Unit. Separate agreements would be signed between the
direct beneficiaries of an approved activity in the CAP and the chairperson of CWG to
ensure widespread public awareness of the conservation commitment.  Continued
disbursement under the CAP will be subject to annual review by the project, PA staff, and
CWG of the extent to which this agreement has been complied with. Annex 5 describes
this process in more detail.



- 13 -
Subcomponent (b): LandAllocation
2.11  This subcomponent would be carried out in all project communes to help control
migration, increase social stability, improve access to institutional credit, and promote
sustainable land use. It will provide funds to expedite the land allocation process by
purchasing field equipment and training (i) to facilitate preparation of cadastre maps and
the issuance of land use certificates (the "red book"); and (ii) to undertake land use
planning at the commune level. The latter will derive participatory land use plans; enable
demarcation of boundaries for natural forests designated for protection purposes and
allocation of degraded forest areas for agroforestry or agricultural use; and facilitate the
preparation of forest protection contracts (para. 2.16 below). Priority will be assigned to
communes according to the threat they pose on the PA. Since this subcomponent is
closely linked to the community development planning process, proper sequencing of
land use planning is important. To ensure effective implementation of this sub-
component, each participating province has provided written confirmation that no new
economic zones will be established in the project area.
Subcomponent (c): Social Support Program
2.12  This subcomponent aims at improving productivity and sustainability of
agricultural and forestry systems, improving access to basic social infrastructure, and
increasing income and employment generating opportunities for the buffer zone
communities. The costs will be met from a Social Support Grant (SSG) allocated to each
project commune and calculated at $300 per eligible poor household whose income is
equivalent to less than 15 kilogram (kg) paddy per person per month. Specific social
support activities will be determined for each commune during the PRA and formulation
of CAP and may include activities such as (i) "food security" improvement, (ii) provision
of basic infrastructure (e.g. household water supply, buildings for schools and/or clinics,
intra-commune roads), and (iv) activities to strengthen local social and cultural
institutions. The project will support any activity identified by the community provided it
is consistent with the objectives of the project to improve the welfare of the target
population and reduce dependency on PA resources in a sustainable manner.
Beneficiaries and local governments are expected to pay a contribution in cash or in kind,
equivalent to a minimum of 10 percent of the value of each investment and agree to carry
out conservation activities agreed to in the CAP including a conservation agreement not
to exploit the core PA.
2.13  Guidelines for use and implementation of SSG are found in Annex 6. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that (i) the SSG will operate in accordance with selection
criteria and guidelines specified in the Project Implementation Manual and acceptable to
IDA; (ii) each grant will be made on the basis of the agreed CAP and under a
conservation agreement between the CWG, Director of the PA, representatives of mass
organizations, and PPMU Manager on the basis of a model agreement acceptable to IDA;
and (iii) an evaluation of the implementation performance of the SSG and CAP will be
prepared as part of the mid-term review.



- 14-
Subcomponent (d): Agricultural Support Services
2.14  This subcomponent aims at improving yields and diversifying farm incomes
through the strengthening extension services for agriculture and agroforestry; promoting
technology transfer from existing commodity development institutions; increasing public
awareness of the need for sustainable agriculture practices; and ensuring the availability
of necessary planting materials and inputs.
2.15  More specifically, agricultural extension support will focus on: (i) developing and
demonstrating relevant food cropping systems (e.g., high-yielding varieties of crops and
sloping agricultural land technology or SALT) rather than those for cash cropping -
which can be left to the relevant companies (e.g., for sugar cane, cotton, sericulture, and
rubber) that are already operating in the district; and (ii) in conjunction with grassroots
organizations and the private sector, providing logistical support in arranging as a group
for planting materials, inputs, appropriate husbandry techniques, institutional credit and
marketing in an adequate and timely manner. Support would be provided to strengthen
District Extension Center (DEC), to train Commune Extension Agents who will be
assisting the CAG, to promote use of Leading Farmer method of village-level extension,
and to facilitate the extension work. Agricultural credit support will primarily come
from VBA&RD. No separate provision for credit will be made since VBA&RD has
already provided a written assurance in a letter of agreement to provide commercial credit
to eligible borrowers in the project area. The project would provide one special mobile
banking unit per project district depending on projected credit demand to increase
effectiveness of VBA&RD to provide support to remote areas under the project.
Subcomponent (e): Forest Management
2.16  This sub-component will fund two major activities addressing protection and
management of existing natural forests in the buffer zone. (i) Forest Protection will
improve the management and use of designated protection forests outside of the PA
identified as natural forests with high environmental value or needed by households
dependent on forest products for subsistence.  Such protection forests have been
distinguished from the more degraded forest land through the land allocation
subcomponent. Some 80,000 ha of such protection forests are expected to be allocated,
through the PRA process, to poor households for management under Forest Protection
Contracts supervised by the provincial FPD. Although the PRA exercise would develop
more detailed criteria for household selection, one major criteria would be to target the
below poverty households and indigenous ethnic minorities (if any). The contracts will
be issued by the Commune People's Committee to households for a period of not less
than 30 years but subject to review of fees after five years or cancellation for any breach
of contract provisions. Some limited harvesting of subsistence forest produce will be
permitted in exchange for assurances not to encroach on core PA and to protect against
fire and outside encroachers. These Forest Protection Contracts would be awarded to the
more vulnerable groups of residents bordering the PA. Funds will also be provided to
strengthen and expand the forest guard force.



- 15 -
2.17  (ii) Study on Restructuring of State Forest Enterprises (SFE) is a pilot activity to
examine the feasibility of restructuring of three selected SFEs adjoining the PAs into
economically viable state-owned forest companies by introducing corporate type
management arrangements. This would facilitate implementation of Government's
policy to restructure State Enterprises and will improve management of remaining natural
forests outside the PA but under the jurisdiction of the SFEs. If, however, the studies find
that commercially-viable corporatization is not possible, they will propose phased
measures to dispose of the assets and labor force and identify social/economic
implications of such measures. Three SFEs have been selected based on the following
criteria: (a) the SFE should have more than 50 percent of natural forest suitable for
sustainable production management; (b) one from each project site; and (c) at least one
SFE under administration of MARD. The SFEs are La Nga Forestry Union in Dong Nai
Province (managed by MARD), Sa Thay SFE in Kon Tum Province, and Bu Dang in
Binh Phuoc Province. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all pilot SFE studies
and a time-bound action plan for their implementation would be furnished to IDA for
review and comments by June 30, 1999.
Subcomponent (fJ: Rural Infrastructure
2.18  This sub-component will provide: (i) expansion of selected irrigation systems
through the rehabilitation of secondary canals and the completion of tertiary and on-farm
irrigation facilities (about 950 ha) and possible construction of new irrigation systems
(about 2100 ha) which meet project criteria for costs and benefits to increase food
production and food security; (ii) upgrading of some inter-commune and commune-
district roads (about 200 km) within the buffer zone to improve services to rural
communities and expand market opportunities; and (iii) improving road access to
headquarters of CTNP (6 km) and CMRNR (9 km) and CMRNR headquarters (at Ba
D'Goc) to Mo Ray commune to strengthen PA management. Technical assistance would
be provided to improve operation and maintenance of irrigation systems and to improve
cost recovery and water use efficiency. An indicative list is provided in the PIM.
Agreement was obtained at negotiations that final selection of (i) and (ii) would be based
on meeting social, environmental, financial and economic criteria and other guidelines set
forth in the PIM.  Preferential consideration would be given to areas that have
demonstrated commitment by local governments and communities to conservation
objectives of the project through the process of developing CAP and implementing
conservation agreements (paras. 2.9 - 2.10). Priority would also be given to schemes with
higher impact on poverty alleviation and to road segments that serve a high proportion of
ethnic minorities and a large total population. Agreement was obtained at negotiations
that disbursement for (i) and (ii) would be contingent on submission of list of works
based on criteria and guidelines specified in the PIM. This is expected to occur in year
two and beyond allowing time to implement the community development planning
process.



- 16-
Component Three: Project Management and Institutional Development (Baseline
Costs US$3.90 million)
2.19  This component includes the following: (a) Project management will fund the
establishment of the institutional structures and management processes needed to
implement the project including monitoring and evaluation of project impacts, financial
management and audits, and supervision through provision of basic equipment, technical
assistance, and training.  (b) Institutional development will strengthen the institutional
capacity at all levels, particularly provincial, district, and community to (i) implement
project activities and (ii) sustain project interventions once implemented through
provision of technical assistance, formal and informal training, and on-the-job
experience. This will be accomplished through on-the-job technical assistance and
training from, to the extent possible, local institutes, private companies, extension
service, and mass organizations.






-17-
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT COSTS
3.1    Total baseline costs have been estimated at US$28.84 million.   Physical
contingencies (US$0.93 million) and price contingencies (US$2.52 million or 9 percent
of baseline costs) increase total project costs to US$32.21 million. Total project costs
include a foreign exchange component of US$9.45 million (approximately 29 percent of
total costs). 52 percent of baseline costs are for CTNP buffer zone development and 36
percent (US$11.6) finance CMRNR and surrounding buffer zone. Of the latter, about 33
percent (US$3.4 million) will be utilized for nature reserve protection and the remainder
(approximately US$7.84 million) for buffer zone development. Approximately 13
percent of total project costs have been allocated for the Project Management and
Institutional Strengthening component.
3.2    Cost estimates are based on quantities derived from technical discussions during
preparation and appraisal missions and unit prices currently prevailing for similar
construction works and materials in project areas and from price quotations, whenever
possible, provided for equipment. Rates of inflation have been calculated using World
Bank projections of 2.3% in all project years for foreign exchange anld 6.0% in 1998-
2001 and 5.0% in 2002-2003 for Vietnamese Dong. Expected exchange rates have been
adjusted to account for differential foreign and local rates of inflation. Project costs are
shown in Table 3.1, with further details in Annex 7. Costs include taxes and customs
duties for equipment and taxes for civil works, which would be fully financed by the
Government. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would make
available to MARD a budget allocation, as part of counterpart funds, to cover the cost of
these customs duties and taxes.
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component
% Total
(Dong Billion)        (US$ Million)      %      Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Local Foreign Total ForEx   Costs
Protected Area Management          20.37   18.48   38.85   1.77   1.61  3.38     48      12
Community Planning                  2.73    5.26    7.99  0.24   0.46  0.69      66       2
Land Allocation                    16.88    5.83   22.71   1.47   0.51   1.97    26       7
Social SupportProgram              34.78    1.53   36.31  3.02   0.13  3.16       4      11
Agricultural Support Services      20.88    9.86   30.74  1.82   0.86  2.67      32       9
Forest Management                  32.66    3.42   36.07  2.84   0.30  3.14       9      11
Rural Infrastructure Development   85.14   28.97  114.11  7.40   2.52  9.92      25      34
Project Mgmt. and Inst. Development    18.33   26.55   44.88   1.59   2.31   3.90  59    14
231.76   99.90  331.66 20.15   8.69 28.84      30     100
hysical Contingencies             8.40    2.27   10.67  0.73   0.20  0.93       21       3
Price Contingencies                48.71   15.52   64.24  1.95   0.57  2.52      23       9
288.87  117.69  406.57 22.84   9.45 32.29      29     112



- 18-
B. FINANCING
3.3    An IDA credit of US$21.51 million equivalent would finance about 73 percent of
total project costs net of taxes and duties. IDA financing would cover foreign exchange
expenditures of approximately US$5.69 million, and about 79 percent of local costs.
Grant co-financing of approximately US$5.16 million equivalent is being provided by the
Government of the Netherlands for the PA Management component, the Community
Planning subcomponent, and the consulting services in the Project Management and
Institutional Development component. The Netherlands Grant will be managed by IDA
and executed by GOV following World Bank guidelines.
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan by Component
GOV            IDA        Netherlands      Total
US$      %      US$    %    US$    %        US$      %
million         million       million       million
Protected Area Management         0.62    17.2                 3.00  82.X     3.63   11.2
Community Planning                0.03     3.6                 0.70  96.4     0.72    2.2
Land Allocation                   0.43    20.9    1.62  79.1      -    -       2.05    6.3
Social Support Program            0.58    16.7    2.90  83.3      -    -       3.48   10.8
Agricultural Support Services     1.06    37.4    1.77  62.6      -    -       2.82    8.7
Buffer Zone Forest Management     0.35    10.3    3.07  89.7      -    -       3.42   10.6
Rural Infrastructure Development  1.57    13.1   10.46  86.9      -    -    12.03   37.3
Project Mgmt. and Inst. Development  0.98    23.7    1.70  41.1   1.46  35.3  4.14   12.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST           5.62    17.4   21.51  66.6   5.16  16.0    32.29  100.0
C. PROCUREMENT
3.4    A national Project Management Unit (PMU) will have overall responsibility for
procurement but will delegate much of the procurement of the small scattered civil works,
goods, and services to the respective Provincial PMU (PPMU) in each of the five project
provinces (paras. 4.1-4.2). The PMU would be directly responsible for procurement of
all foreign and some national technical assistance, production of maps, vehicles and
major items of office equipment (e.g., computers and printers). The procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3 and reviewed below. Because many activities
to be financed can be finalized only during implementation, a detailed procurement plan
only for the first year is shown in Annex 8. However, agreement was obtained at
negotiations that an annual procurement plan for the next calendar year would be
furnished to IDA for review by August 31 of each year, beginning August 31, 1998.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that procurement of goods and services
financed under the project would be undertaken in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised January and
August 1996) and Bank Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by



- 19-
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997), using Bank's standard documents. Agreement
was obtained at negotiations that a supplemental letter will be signed with the
Development Credit Agreement stating agreed revisions to the Borrower's local
procurement procedures (as indicated in Decree No. 43/CP dated July 16, 1996, Inter-
Ministcrial Circular No. 2 dated February 25, 1997 and Decree No. 93/CP dated August
23, 1997) required to meet IDA's procurement policy.
Table 3.3: Summary Of Proposed Procurement Arrangements5
(US$ million)
Procurement Methods
CATEGORY                     ICB         NCB        OTHER"        NBF'        TOTAL
Works
Buildings                                             -           -            0.39          0.39
Road Rehab., Trails, & Irrigation        -            8.71        2.18         0.06         10.95
(8.59)      (1.21)                     (9.80)
Goods
Vehicles                                 2.84         -           0.12         0.44          3.41
(1.42)                  (0.06)                     (1.48)
Computers                                 -           0.08        0.01          0.03         0.12
(0.07)      (0.01)                     (0.08)
Equipment                                -            0.02        0.09         0.16          0.28
(0.02)      (0.07)                     (0.09)
Materials                                -            -           0.48         0.03          0.51
(0.35)                     (0.35)
Services
Technical Assistance                      -           -           0.21          3.02         3.23
(0.21)                     (0.21)
Surveys & Studies                         -           -           1.85         0.73          2.58
(1.67)                     (1.67)
Forest Protection Contracts               -           -           2.30          -            2.30
(2.30)                     (2.30)
Training                                  -           -           0.42          0.29         0.71
(0.38)                     (0.38)
Social Support Grants
Village / Commune Infrastructure          -           -           2.83          -            2.83
(2.54)                     (2.54)
Materials                                 -           -           0.20                       0.20
(0.18)                     (0.18)
Services                                 -            -           0.20          -            0.20
(0.18)                     (0.18)
Incremental Recurrent Costs
Incremental Salaries and Allowances       -           -           0.50         0.17          0.67
(0.32)                     (0.32)
Incremental Operating Costs               -           -           3.43         0.49          3.92
________________________   _______(1.93)                                    (1.93) 
TOTAL:                     2.84        8.81        14.82         5.81         32.29
(1.42)         (7.93)      (12.16)        -(21.51)
Includes physical and price contingencies. Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA.
Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding.
Includes small contracts, shopping, direct contracting, community-organized  labor, contracted
services, force account and training.
7   Non-Bank Financing.



- 20 -
3.5   Works. Civil works of US$11.34 million would be required in the project,
comprising small-scale irrigation schemes and the upgrading of commune and district
roads, as well as infrastructure in CMRNR. These works are small and widely scattered
across five provinces and 40 communes/towns, and consequently, would not be suitable
for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts above US$50,000 equivalent per
contract with total about US$8.7 million would be procured according to National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts below US$50,000
equivalent per contract with total about US$2.0 million and buildings in CMRNR may be
procured using lump-sum fixed price contracts, according to simplified procurement
procedures for works, on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors. Works that meet the criteria set forth in Section 3.8 of the Guidelines, up to
an aggregate of US$200,000 equivalent may be procured by force account with IDA's
prior agreement.
3.6   All of the works in CMRNR, including trails and buildings, would be cofinanced
by the Netherlands Government and carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable
to IDA. Contracts below US$200,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US$355,000
equivalent would be procured using lump-sum, fixed price contracts, according to
simplified procurement procedures for works, on the basis of quotations obtained from
three qualified domestic contractors. Contracts below US$50,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate of US$90,000 equivalent, may be procured through direct contracting.
Patrolling trails for CMRNR may be procured through force account, up to an aggregate
of US$35,000 equivalent, with IDA's prior agreement.
3.7   Goods valued at US$4.32 million would be required for the project and comprises
vehicles (US$3.41) million, computers (US$0.12 million), office and field equipment
(US$0.28 million), and materials (US$0.51 million). Materials include agricultural
inputs, publications, and materials for those works to be undertaken by force account or
by communities under the SSG with IDA's prior agreement.  ICB procurement
procedures would apply to all vehicles including those to be financed by co-financier
with the exception of 2 four wheel drive vehicles needed for the PMU for project start-up.
These vehicles would be procured through the Interagency Procurement Service Office of
the United Nations. A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of th1e c.i.f. price of
imported goods or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, will be
allowed to domestic manufacturers bidding under ICB procedures. All computers would
be procured through NCB (US$0.08 million IDA and US$0.03 million Netherlands)
except for 3 computers (US$0.01 million IDA) needed for project start-up which would
be procured through National Shopping procedures. Packaging contracts for office
furniture, office consumables, tools, agricultural inputs, and materials in many cases
would not be practical. All items or groups of items below US$80,000 equivalent per
contract up to US$100,000 aggregate for the IDA Credit would be procured by NCB.
National Shopping procedures would apply to all contracts for items or groups of items
with amounts up to US$50,000 equivalent per contract up to US$400,000 aggregate for
the IDA Credit and US$160,000 aggregate amount for the Netherlands Grant since small
quantities of diverse equipment and materials are required at each participating project



- 21 -
commune. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of comparisons of price quotations
solicited from qualified suppliers in Vietnam, as described in Section 3.6 of the World
Bank Guidelines. Specialized items of proprietary nature such as books and computer
software may be procured using direct contacting, with IDA's prior approval, from
qualified suppliers up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000 for the IDA Credit and
US$30,000 for the Netherlands Grant.
3.8   Services, including training, technical assistance, and field activities (e.g.,
surveying, mapping, studies, and forest protection contracts) worth US$8.82 million
would be required for the project. Of this, approximately US$3.23 million of technical
assistance would be required. Consultants would be employed in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997). Services for project management, biodiversity conservation of CMRNR,
buffer zone development, and project management and institutional development, to be
financed by the Netherlands Grant and estimated to cost US$4.04 million, would be
procured using quality- and cost-based selection. Grant-financed services for developing
and implementing Commune Action Plans, field surveys, specialized studies, and
monitoring and auditing and IDA-financed services for field surveys, land use planning,
and studies, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract with an
aggregate amount of US$0.75 million equivalent for the Grant and US$1.85 million for
the IDA Credit, would be procured using selection based on consultants' qualifications
because these are very small assignments for which the need for preparing and evaluating
competitive proposals are not justified.  Services for land allocation, community
extension, irrigation, facility design, and translation/interpretation estimated to cost less
than US$100,000 equivalent per contract with an aggregate amount of US$0.30 million
for the IDA Credit and US$0.05 million for the Netherlands Grant would be procured
using Individual Consultants method. Local training and overseas study tours (US$0.71
million) would be procured by procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.9   Social Support Investments. In the project buffer zone, investment expenditure
totaling US$3.23 million would finance small works and village development activities in
37 communes and three district towns over a four year project period. These activities,
identified in a Commune Action Plan and eligible for social support grant financing, will
be small sub-projects less than US$20,000. Social support grants will be disbursed on the
basis of contracts for activities identified in commune conservation agreements. Civil
works required estimated at US$2.83 million would be procured in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA and with IDA's prior agreement: (a) under community
participation provisions by direct contracting with village communities; (b) by soliciting
quotations from at least three qualified contractors; or (c) through force account. Small
goods such as tools, agriculture inputs, publications, and supplies estimated at US$0.20
million would be procured through National Shopping procedures acceptable to IDA.
Services such as training or agriculture extension estimated at US$0.20 million would be
procured through direct contracting with IDA's prior agreement.



- 22 -
3.10  Other activities amnount to US$4.59 million and comprise incremental salaries and
allowances (US$0.67 million) and incremental operation and maintenance costs
(US$3.92 million). IDA would fund US$1.93 million of incremental operating expenses
over six years (financed on an declining basis, from 80 percent in project year 1 to 50
percent in project year 6) related to project staff travel and incremental allowances,
subsistence for field work, communications expenses, office consumable and expenses,
and operation and maintenance of project investments. These activities would be
procured according to the Borrower's procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.1  Review of Procurement. All contracts for goods would be grouped into bid
packages whenever possible to attract competition and permit bulk purchasing. The
Bank's standard bidding documents would be used, including standard evaluation form.
For the IDA Credit, prior review would be required for (a) all contracts awarded through
ICB; (b) first three contracts awarded through NCB regardless of value and subsequent
contracts for irrigation and road rehabilitation that exceed US$200,000; (c) the first
contract with a commune for each of five participating provinces regardless of value; and
(d) all contracts for consultants' services in excess of US$100,000 for firms, US$50,000
for individuals, and single source selection of consulting firms. For the Netherlands
Grant Agreement, prior review would be required for (a) all contracts for civil works that
exceed US$100,000; (b) all contract for goods that exceed US$200,000; and (c) all
contracts for consultants' services in excess of US$100,000 for firms, US$50,000 for
individuals, and single source selection of consulting firms. Prior review would apply to
about 80 percent of total consultants' services by value. For consultants' services, the
prior review will include single source selection of consulting firms, terms of reference,
short lists, letters of invitation, recommendations for award, and the final contract. These
arrangements would ensure prior review by IDA of about 45 percent of project
expenditures. The process-oriented nature of the project with its emphasis on community
programs managed and implemented by the communities is such that a higher level of
IDA review would not have a significant impact on procurement quality. Ex-post review
would be carried out on a sample basis of one out of five contracts for those contracts not
subject to prior review.
3.12  More intensive post-review would be carried out for SSG investments by MARD,
who will recruit an independent monitoring and auditing team (MAT), under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.8). The MAT would carry-out an annual review of
procurement procedures, financial management, physical implementation, and impacts of
project activities. The MAT would review at least 20 percent of the SSG investments to
ensure consistency of the investments with the selection and eligibility criteria, agreed
procurement procedures, competitiveness of prices paid, and physical inspections of the
relevant items.
3.13 This will be the third project to be implemented by MARD. No major
procurement problems have been encountered by either the irrigation or agriculture
rehabilitation projects. MARD has been able to handle all procurement procedures
satisfactorily. However, given the fact that the recent IDA Country Portfolio



- 23 -
Performance Review identified procurement as one of several generic implementation
issues that needs improvement, training on IDA's procurement procedures will start after
appraisal with assistance from the Resident Mission and continue throughout initial years
of implementation.
D. DISBURSEMENT
3.14   The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003, six years after
project effectiveness. The closing date would be June 30, 2004, six months after the
expected completion. The estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 9 and is
more conservative than the standard disbursement profile (SDP) for IDA agriculture
projects in Vietnam, primarily as a function of the community planning and land
allocation processes that occur in PYs 1 and 2. The SDP for Vietnam is based on the
IDA's Vietnam agriculture lending portfolio as of June, 1995, and includes only the
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (VN-PE-4834) and the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project (VN-PE-4837). The expected disbursement schedule is consistent with the
Regional Agriculture sector SDP.
3.15  Funds from IDA would be disbursed as described in Table 3.4 below:
Table 3.4: Disbursement Categories
IDA                 %o
Disbursement Category            Allocation    Expenditures to be Financed
(US$)     Exenitrs_o_eFiane
(1) Civil Works
(a) irrigation, road rehabilitation    8,600,000    90 %
(b) CTNP and CMRNR access road
upgrade                               380,000
(2) Goods                                  1,720,000    100 % ForEx, 100% local
(ex-factory), 85% local
(3) Training                                390,000    100 %
(4) Consultants' Services                   220,000    100 %
(5) Forest Protection Contracts            2,300,000    100 %
(6) Field Activities, Surveying, and Mapping    1,530,000    90 %
(7) Social Support Grants                  2,650,000    100 % of the amount
disbursed
(8) Incremental Operating Costs            1,630,000    1998-2000: 80%
2001-03: 50%
(9) Unallocated                           2,090,000
TOTAL:                   21,510,000



- 24 -
3.16  To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account will be opened in US
dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA with an authorized allocation of US$ 1.5 million and
an initial deposit of US$700,000 equal to about four months of estimated disbursements
until total disbursed and committed funds reach SDR1.0 million. The Special Account
will cover IDA's share of eligible expenses in both local and foreign currencies.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account will be submitted monthly, or
whenever the account is drawn down by 20 percent, whichever comes first. Withdrawal
applications for payment to be made outside the Special Account would be accepted
provided that the amount requested is equivalent to at least 20 percent of the amount
advanced to the Special Account (or US$300,000). A second Special Account containing
Grant funds of the cofinancier will be established for disbursement of funids for activities-
financed under the Grant Agreement.
3.17 Full documentation will be required for services obtained from consulting firms
under contracts exceeding US$100,000, and in the case of individual consultants, for
contracts exceeding US$50,000; all goods procured under contract exceeding
US$200,000; and all works procured under contract exceeding US$200,000. All other
disbursements will be made against Statement of Expenditure (SOE) prepared by PMU.
The relevant documentation in support of SOE would be retained by PPMU and PMU,
and would be made available to the appropriate auditors and IDA review missions.
3.18  Fund Flow. In order to facilitate payments to be made by the five participating
provinces for small contracts, particularly to communities, each PPMU would open an
Advance Account in VND with the Provincial Treasury to receive IDA funds from the
Special Account. Once the initial deposit has been made into the Special Account, a
transfer would be made from the Special Account to the account at each PPMU's
Provincial Treasury Account, amounting to 90 days of expected expenditures based on an
approved annual workplan. PPMUs would replenish the Provincial Treasury Accounts
monthly from the Special Account by submitting fully documented requests to the PMU.
The latter will, in turn, replenish the Special Account from the IDA Credit. The PMU
will provide guidance to the PPMUs on disbursement as needed and ensure that proper
accounting records are maintained by each PPMU. The PMU will withdraw directly
from the Special Account for authorized expenditures incurred by the PMU. The IDA
Credit would be supplemented by counterpart resources derived from the Government's
own operating budget or from contributions from the communities.
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
3.19 The overall project account would be maintained by the PMU in MARD, and
separate project accounts for each province would be maintained by each PPMU. The
project accounts would reflect all financial transactions during project implementation
period for both IDA Credit and counterpart funding in two books, one by project
components, and one by expenditure categories. At negotiations, assurances were



- 25 -
obtained that (i) the PMU and PPMU would each maintain separate accounts for project
funds; (ii) PPMUs would be responsible for filing monthly report on the project's account
to the PMU; (iii) Special Account and project accounts, including documentation for
SOEs, will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, with the audit
including a separate opinion on the use of the SOEs and the status of audit compliance;
(iv) IDA funds can be used to finance expenditures incurred in arranging for the project
annual audit report; and (v) the detailed audit report would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the closing of the government's fiscal year.






- 26 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION STRUCTURES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
4.1   MARD would be responsible for the overall management of the proposed project.
A Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established in MARD reporting to the
Chairman of the Project Steering Committee to handle day-to-day management of the
project. Tasks include facilitating coordination among the various implementing and
policy-making agencies, overseeing preparation and review of annual work plans and
budget requests submitted by the PPMUs and the PA Management Boards, preparing
overall progress and evaluation reports, monitoring and evaluation, recruitment of
international and some local consultants, procurement activities involving ICB, and
project-related training, financing, disbursement, accounts, and audits.
4.2   Provincial People's Committees of the five participating provinces would have
responsibility for project management at the provincial level. Separate Provincial Project
Management Units (PPMUs) would also be established under each Provincial People's
Committee. Each PPMU is responsible for coordinating activities between the PA and
buffer zone; supervising community planning process and implementation; preparing
annual work plan and budget for buffer zone activities since it involves several
implementing entities; procurement of works, goods, and services; and maintaining
project accounts and appropriate documentation to support SOEs; and organizing data
collection for project monitoring and evaluation. The PPMU of the four provinces
adjacent to CTNP would meet once at year with the Dutch-funded CTNPCP project
director to coordinate activities and ensure consistency in the annual planning exercise.
The PMU should delegate as much responsibility as feasible to the PPMUs including
procurement involving NCB and national shopping. The PMU and PPMU are temporary
entities and should dissolve at the end of the project.
4.3   Given that project implementation also relies on agencies outside of MARD, an
inter-ministerial Project Steering Committee (PSC) at the national level comprising
representatives of concerned MARD departments, other relevant government ministries
and organizations such as State Committee for Ethnic Minorities and Mountain Areas,
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning and Investment, State Bank of Vietnam,
General Department for Land Administration, and Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development (VBA&RD) would be established under the chairmanship of MARD
to ensure coordination between ministries. The PSC will meet formally at least once a
year to set the principles and policies for the project; review and approve the consolidated
annual work plan and budget; and monitor project implementation progress. The PSC
would also facilitate coordination between provinces and adjudicate any disputes; this is
particularly important for CTNP which straddles 4 provinces.
4.4   Similarly, a Provincial Project Steering Committee (PPSC) will be established by
each Provincial People's Committee with representatives from implementing agencies
such as Forest Protection Branch, Provincial Agriculture and Rural Development



- 27 -
Department (including irrigation service), Provincial Land Administration Department,
Provincial Planning and Investment Department, and a representative of the provincial
branch of VBA&RD. The PPSC will meet at least twice a year to set policies for the
project at provincial level; approve annual work plans and budget requests prepared by
the PPMU; review monitoring and progress reports prepared by the PPMU; and
coordinate with relevant national ministries and departments. Terms of References
(TOR) for PSC, PPSC, PMU, and PPMU are described in Annex 10 and overall
organization of the project is shown in Annex 11. Establishment of PSC, PPSCs and
PMU, and PPMUs with managers in place would be conditions ofpro!ect effectiveness.
4.5   A Commune Working Group (CWG) is the key entity responsible for overseeing
the planning, implementation, and monitoring of community-based activities, particularly
the CAPs, at each participating commune. CWG would be formed during the first year of
implementation by the Commune People's Council to facilitate the community planning
process and subsequently assist the PPMU to manage and monitor community-based
project-related activities. The principle role is to ensure that all community stakeholders
are fully consulted in the planning process, and that the CAP represents the needs and
priorities of the community. The CAP is negotiated between the PPMU and the CWG
on behalf of the beneficiaries. Once agreed and submitted to the PPMU for further
processing, the CAP cannot be change without further discussions with the CWG. The
PPMU will ensure that the activities proposed are consistent with the selection criteria
and conservation objectives of the project and ensure the approved activities are included
in the annual work plan and budget. The CWG would be composed of five to ten
representatives of the commune, recommended by the PRA process and approved by the
Commune People's Council. The CWG would include representatives from the poorer
segments of the commune, especially (where present) all the indigenous ethnic minorities
in a commune and women's groups. The Chairperson of the CWG would be elected by
the members of the CWG. One member of the CWG would be authorized by the
Commune People's Council to operate a project bank account at the district treasury
office for limited project expenditures for which CWG is responsible. This structure aims
to promote and support local decision-making relating to local priorities within agreed
project guidelines.
4.6   Technical Assistance.  The project involves the introduction of many new
conservation techniques and processes that are still not very well known in Vietnam. To
ensure effective technology transfer, the project includes 313 person-months of short term
local consultants and 49 person months of short term foreign consultants, along with
three foreign resident advisors for 100 person months in the critical areas of protected
areas management, community development, and project management including
monitoring and evaluation. In addition, funds are provided to subcontract technical
studies, complete biophysical inventories, and undertake socio-economic baseline studies
to local research institutes as needed. Detailed breakdown of TA requirements is
described in Annex 12. The TA program is designed to train and build institutional
capacity at the start of the project, with a heavy emphasis on on-the-job training and use
of local experts and organizations, in order to ensure effective and sustainable transfer of



- 28 -
technical and managerial expertise. The three long-term foreign TAs will transfer their
skills during their assignments to local counterparts who will then assume full
responsibility for implementation after year three.
B. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
4.7   Project activities are expected to be implemented simultaneously in each of the
five provinces. During project start-up, high priority will be given to training of PMU
and PPMU staff on procurement and administration procedures and timely recruitment of
project management-related consultants.  Other priorities include (i) contracting of
Community Advisory Groups to carry-out PRA and community planning studies in order
to form CWGs; (ii) training of land allocation teams in preparation for land use planning
and allocation; (iii) upgrading of access road to CTNP and from Sa Thay district to
CMRNR headquarters site; and (iv) contracting of PA Management Planning Team to
revise the CMRNR management plan in order to demarcate boundaries and determine
management prescriptions. An implementation schedule for all major project activities
is in Annex 13 including an outline of the PIM. The PIM provides more detailed
description of implementation arrangements and schedule by project component and
subcomponent. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the PIM would be applied
to all aspects of implementation, any revisions will require prior IDA review, and that the
PIM adopted by MARD would be a condition ofproject effectiveness.
C. MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND REPORTING ARRANGEMENTS
4.8   Periodic overall monitoring and evaluation (M&E) would be carried out by the
PMU with assistance from international experts. The project has provided nine person
months for a M&E specialist for this activity. Another 65 person months have been set
aside for contracting an independent local Monitoring and Auditing Team (MAT) to
provide an independent measurement and analysis of project and TA activities and all
aspects of performance on an annual basis (para.3.11). Progress will be measured against
the key performance indicators. On the basis of these key indicators, MARD would
develop and implement a monitoring, evaluation, and reporting system with assistance
from short-term M&E expert. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that a project
monitoring and evaluation system satisfactory to IDA will be established by December
31, 1998.
4.9   Reporting. The PMU will be responsible for preparing progress reports using
information submitted by PPMU. Semi-annual reports will be submitted to IDA using
the key performance indicators as the basis for assessing implementation progress. These
reports will also (i) assess progress of all activities against agreed annual work plans and
targets; (ii) identify possible problems and recommend remedial action; and (iii) review
of procurement and disbursement activities. These reports will serve as a basis for Bank
supervision missions and for preparation of the next year's work plan and budget. To
ensure effective reporting, the following assurances were obtained at negotiations: (i)
progress reports will be furnished to IDA for review by July 31 and January 31 of each



- 29 -
year, beginning with July 31, 1998; and (ii) an annual work plan and financing plan for
project activities for the next calendar year will be furnished to IDA for review and
comments by August 31 of each year, beginning with August 31, 1998. A project
completion report would be prepared by GOV on the basis of Bank guidelines within six
months of the closing date of the credit.
4.10  Bank Supervision. The project will be supervised by IDA twice a year and
monitored regularly by the Resident Mission in Hanoi particularly with regard to
disbursement and procurement. Supervision will be more technically oriented with a core
team consisting of task team leader, social scientist, and rural development/institutions
specialist. As required the core team will be supplemented by other specialists, in such
areas as financial management, procurement, park management, farming systems
specialist, agro-marketing specialist, and management information systems. Whenever
possible, local professionals and non-governmental organizations will be recruited as
short-term consultants to assist IDA supervision missions. The expected timing and
expertise requirements are included in Annex 14. Supervision will be more intensive
during the first three years of implementation due to the complexity of the project and
limited experience in managing multilateral projects.
4.11   Mid-term Review. A joint mid-term review is planned by no later than March
31, 2001. To ensure effective preparation of the mid-term review, it was agreed at
negotiations that Government will prepare and submit to IDA by January 31, 2001 a mid-
term report summarizing the results of the M&E, assessing progress achieved in project
implementation, and making recommendations to ensure efficient implementation of the
remainder of the project and achievement of project objectives.



- 30 -
5. PROJECT IMPACTS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. BENEFITS
5.1   The main benefits of the project would be (a) the protection of invaluable
biodiversity in the two PAs; (b) more effective management of natural forests in the
buffer zone; (c) improvements in the socio-economic well-being of buffer zone
communities; and (d) improvements in the institutional and administrative capacity of
GOV. Beyond providing for the conservation of biodiversity, the project would broaden
the focus of PA management planning, improve fire and poaching control, and improve
staff efficiency and effectiveness. It would provide a base for public support for the PAs
and would provide for technical review, administrative and financial services necessary
for quality control, accountability, integration, and overall timeliness of project
implementation. More importantly, the project would provide a new model for improved
PA management and establish more participatory organizational processes that could be
expanded to other ecologically significant areas in Vietnam.
5.2   Biodiversity Benefits. Although the value of the biodiversity in the PAs have
not been quantified, these two PAs have been ranked as containing biodiversity of global
importance through the Vietnam Biodiversity Action Plan exercise. CTNP harbors the
only known surviving population of Javan rhinoceros, Rhinoceros sondaicus, in mainland
Southeast Asia as well as several other internationally endangered species such as the
white-winged wood duck, Cairina scutulata and Siamese crocodile, Crocodylus
siamensis. It also supports some of the largest remaining examples of intact lowland
dipterocarp and lagerstroemia/dipterocarp forests present in Vietnam. Although less is
known about the biodiversity of CMRNR, preliminary surveys indicate that it supports a
significant number of species which are under threat. Thirty-eight percent (29 species) of
the Reserve's mammal fauna, for example, including the tiger Panthera tigris, douc langur
Pygathrix nemaeus, white-cheeked gibbon Hylobates leucogenys and Asian black bear
Ursus thinus, are considered to be either nationally or internationally endangered. CMRNR
is also a high priority site for development as possible Indochinese transfrontier PA with
Lao PDR and Cambodia which would increase the protection of wildlife that migrates
through the three countries.
5.3   Economic Benefits. Economic analysis was undertaken for the rural development
activities in the buffer zone. Because economic benefits are interdependent, conventional
economic rates of return calculations were made on an aggregated basis by (a) adding up
the incremental costs for infrastructure (irrigation and rural roads) and the "technology
transfer" investments on the farm (in food crops, agro-forestry, cash crops and livestock);
and (b) combining the production benefits of the subcomponents in such a way as to
ensure that there would be no "double counting". Production benefits from the irrigation
subcomponent can be analyzed separately (its economic rate of return or ERR is 15
percent). However, for the other production benefits (primarily rainfed yield and
cropping density improvements), only those from technology transfer through



- 31 -
extension/credit assistance are included. The production benefits and transport cost
savings associated with the road subcomponent were not included, while costs were.
Based on these conservative assumptions, the ERR for the combined inivestments is 13
percent (see Annex 15 for details and sensitivity analysis). This figure includes the
benefits from project investments that accrue outside the buffer zone communes. If the
non-buffer area benefits were to be left out, an ERR of eight percent would be the result.
If benefits were to be delayed by a year, the overall ERR would be nine percent. Given
the above, and because the project includes significant biodiversity benefits which cannot
be quantified, the overall ERR for the project is thus likely to have been understated.
5.4   The ERRs are calculated from financial farm models8 with adjustments for net
taxes and the shadow pricing of family labor at the market rate. The calculations exclude
the costs for technical assistance, land allocation, social support and project management
because these costs cover more than the buffer zone subcomponents and any attempt to
allocate them between buffer zone and non-buffer zone would be arbitrary. Excluded
benefits, which are difficult to quantify, are those arising from (a) more sustainable land
use practices and forest cover retention leading to decreased erosion/sedimentation and
greater water availability downstream, and (b) the spill-over effects from the reduction of
unemployment or underemployment due to increased income generation.
5.5   Financial Benefits. For a project which relies on improving the income and
livelihood status of buffer households to secure their joint cooperation in forest
protection, the financial rates of return (FRR) for these households will have to be high
enough to motivate active participation. For subsistence or food staple crops, the
incremental financial returns to the family labor effort is an important indicator of such an
incentive. The improved technologies to be introduced (for various systems of paddy
production and for maize and mung beans) will increase the returns per labor day from
levels close to the market unskilled wage rate (about Dong 11,000/day) in the "without
project" case to levels ranging from Dong 12,000 to 27,000/day in the "with project"
case.
5.6   For cash crops, incremental financial returns would vary according to the types of
buffer zone households, their farm endowment and location, and the market
opportunities. In accessible areas with relatively good basaltic soils in the CTNP buffer
zone (especially parts of Lam Dong and Dong Nai provinces), credit availability (from
VBA&RD or a community revolving fund), together with project assistance in organizing
farmers could enable households to achieve incremental FRRs ranging from 20 to over 75
percent. This would cover rainfed farming of annual crops (ranging from improved rice,
maize, mulberry, or sericulture) and livestock to the introduction of irrigation to permit
the cultivation of high yielding variety rice, hybrid maize and coffee. In less well
endowed farms, extension service and subsistence credit assistance could help farmers
through critical cash-short months and thus enable them to at least grow enough food
8   Farm models can be found in the project file.



- 32 -
(i.e., upland rice and maize) for subsistence before they can afford to produce high value
cash crops..
5.7   In the generally less accessible CMRNR buffer zone, where extensive barren land
exists, an extension package, which includes the planting of multi-purpose fodder trees
(to permit farmers to harvest leaves for livestock feeding in the dry season) would
significantly improve livestock productivity and farm income. In some areas close to
rubber plantations or sugar mills, opportunities exist for the introduction of raw material
cash crops like rubber and sugar, the FRR of which are approximately 14 percent and 20
percent respectively. In some degraded forest areas, agroforestry (with a FRR of about
13 percent) may be an option. For the many poor and often hungry households in the less
accessible forested buffer areas, employment opportunities provided under the forest
protection contracts (to manage and protect allocated parcels of protection forests) may
be the only source of cash income for these labor surplus, high poverty areas. In any
case, the raising of buffer zone incomes would mean that buffer households would be
more responsive to public awareness or extension programs and hence be more receptive
to a change in the lifestyle that accepts greater responsibility for maintenance of the
natural resources.
5.8   Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery. The fiscal impact of the project on the
Government will be minimal. Of the total project cost (net of taxes) of US$ 29.5 million,
GOV's total contribution would only be about US$2.9 million. For example, GOV's net
of tax contribution for infrastructure investment (about US 0.6 million or about 7 % of
total project investment cost for both irrigation and roads) is small compared with the
total capital expenditure GOV has historically (1991-95) allocated for irrigation (US$448
million) and transport/communications (US$892 million). In any case, on-farm costs and
O&M costs for tertiary irrigation facilities would be borne by the beneficiaries through
the contribution of their labor. GOV's contribution of nearly US$0.3 million for
agricultural support services cannot be considered to be inordinate. To operate and
maintain the US$3.1 million requirement for Social Support Grants under the project
(100 percent IDA financing), Government needs to commit only about US$ 0.3 million to
operate and maintain the social infrastructure to be developed under the project.
Communities are required to provide a minimum of 10 to 25 percent. contribution as well.
Finally, since GOV counterpart funding is also likely to be drawn from funding for
existing programs (Decree 327/556 programs or Government's Hunger Eradication and
Poverty Alleviation Program), the project can be considered as a means of ensuring that
expenditures for these programs are efficiently used. Nevertheless, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that a plan would be developed as part of the mid-term review on
post project financing of recurrent costs.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
5.9   The project is classified as a category "B" project. Positive environmental
impacts are expected through improving management and protection of the PA and
surrounding forests and through the introduction of agricultural technology which will



- 33 -
encourage sustainable agricultural activities in the buffer zone.  An Environmental
Review was carried out by the Environmental Protection Center, part of the Vietnam
Institute of Tropical Technology and Environmental Protection under the Ministry of
Science, Technology, and Environment. The Review considered both the potential
environmental impacts of activities and developments to be supported under the project
and the potential of existing or planned developments in the vicinity of the project areas
to adversely affect project sustainability and effectiveness. Annex 16 summarizes the
findings of the Environmental Review.
5.10  The Review concluded that the project will have overall positive impacts on the
environment and any potential negative impacts project components would be very
limited and confined to the small-scale rural infrastructure investments. However,
adequate safeguards have been taken through prescription of simple design guidelines
and incorporation of suitable safeguards in infrastructure construction specifications. The
necessary guidelines and safeguards have been incorporated in the Project
Implementation Manual. The only significant external developments with potential to
adversely affect the project are continued unsustainable logging operations in State Forest
Enterprises (SFE) adjacent to the PA. The project includes a pilot SFE restructuring
activity which is intended to provide a basis for improving the enivironmental and
financial performance of SFEs.
C. SOCIAL IMPACT
5.11  A social assessment was carried out as part of project preparation. The project is
expected to have significant positive social impacts particularly on some of the poorest
populations by ensuring a higher degree of food security, increasing household incomes,
improving rates of literacy, improving health and sanitation, creating employment
opportunities, and assisting indigenous ethnic groups in developing their specific cultural
identify. Project interventions that would improve the socio-economic and cultural
development of the people living in the buffer zone include: (i) lalid allocation and
securing land use rights; (ii) improved household food security; (iii) basic education and
health services; and (iv) maintenance and development of cultural tradition and values.
Social support requirements will be assessed in each commune and village during the first
two years of project implementation in full consultation with the communities using PRA
methods. Priority will be accorded to those communities which depend on access to the
resources of PA for subsistence and whose livelihood might be jeopardized by restricted
access to those resources.
5.12  Indigenous Peoples and Ethnic Minorities. The general project approach is
based on the informed participation of the local people themselves, and is thus adaptable
to the special and specific needs of the indigenous ethnic minorities residing in the
project area. In addition, numerous safeguards have been incorporated to ensure that the
indigenous ethnic groups of the area will get their share of development benefits, in a
manner appropriate and compatible with their social and cultural situation. The project is
expected to have a positive impact on ethnic minorities living in the project area by



- 34 -
reducing the threats to and pressure on these groups and their land due to both
spontaneous and planned migration. However, to ensure that the culture and needs of the
ethnic minorities are recognized and addressed, a separate Ethnic Minorities Development
Plan (EMDP) was prepared by the Government and found to be in accordance with OD
4.20 on Indigenous Peoples. During negotiations, agreement was obtained that the
project would be implemented according to the provisions in the EMDP approved by
GOV.
5.13  Resettlement. No resettlement of households is envisaged under the project.
Every effort will be made to demarcate the boundaries of the PA without interfering with
existing habitations and land used for agriculture. This will be done by adjusting the
boundaries to exclude human settlements, and, where feasible, to create enclaves within
the PA. Under exceptional cases where human activities threaten biodiversity or where
forest protection would be otherwise impossible, resettlement may be unavoidable. The
number of people affected would only be known when actual boundary demarcation takes
place during the first year or so of project implementation. Therefore, to ensure that
people will be adequately compensated, a Policy Framework for Resettlement and
Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons was prepared by the government and found to
be in accordance with OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. The principle objective of
the Resettlement Policy Framework is to ensure that Project Affected Persons (PAPs), if
any, will be compensated for their losses and provided with rehabilitation measures to
assist them to improve their pre-Project living standards and income earning capacity.
The Framework specifies the principles and objectives, eligibility criteria of PAPs,
entitlements, legal and institutional framework, modes of compensation and
rehabilitation, process for peoples participation and grievance procedures that will guide
compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of the PAPs. Agreement was obtained at
negotiations that if resettlement is unavoidable, it will be completed in accordance with
the Resettlement Policy Framework approved by GOV including detailed action plans to
be submitted to IDA for approval.
D. SUSTAINABILITY
5.14  Project sustainability will be enhanced by the following interventions:  (i)
development of institutional and human resource capacity to implement conservation
programs; (ii) development of ownership and commitment at commune and village to
project objective of protecting critical forest resources and biodiversity; and (iii)
development of incentives and alternative livelihood opportunities to reduce pressure on
the PA. Furthermore, as the fiscal impact on the project is not inordinate (para 5.8), post
project period sustainability is not expected to be a problem. The long-term sustainability
of CMRNR and CTNP will depend to a large extent on a shared responsibility in PA
conservation between MARD, provincial and local governments, and village
communities residing around the PAs. Therefore, participatory planning, including land
allocation and boundary demarcation, assuring appropriate market  incentives,
development and promotion of 'alternative livelihood opportunities, and the



- 35 -
empowerment of local communities, is critical. Such a participatory approach will also
serve to reduce the risk of choosing wrong investments under the project.
5.15   Sustainability will also depend on how effective is the design of the project and
how cost effectively can the project activities be implemented. Care has been taken in
designing the project to ensure that key ingredients of success has been incorporated (see
para 5.14 above). Duplication has been avoided wherever possible (e.g., no separate
investment/development support is being established for rubber, cotton or sericulture
where existing state enterprises or agencies already exist). On PA protection, particular
care has been taken not to over-invest, particularly given the limited absorptive capacity.
Overall costs are consistent with other such investments in Vietnam (e.g., Yok Don
National Park or Vu Quang National Park). Much of the costs are initial investments
needed to establish basic protection and management infrastructure and a monitoring and
evaluation system. Recurrent costs (mostly salary and routine operating expenses) to
maintain the level of management required should be easily met by the existing 327/556
program.
E. PROJECT RISKS
5.16  The project should be seen as an experiment being undertaken in very challenging
circumstances. Many of the project interventions are innovative and "pilot" in nature and
therefore could be considered highly risky. However, project activities were built upon
processes that have been demonstrated in other locations in Vietnam and elsewhere in the
region and tested in two project communes during the preparation process. The approach
also emphasized greater involvement of local communities and use of existing support
services and processes to deliver project goods and services. A high level of institutional
support will "pilot test" these measures and make any modifications needed to enhance
local effectiveness.
5.17  A  major risk is increasing population pressure due to spontaneous and
Government sponsored planned migration into the project area. Project activities have
taken measures to minimize unplanned migration through PA boundary demarcation,
land allocation in the buffer zone to secure land tenure, and better enforcement using joint
protection contracts as well as strengthening protection measures.  It has been
demonstrated elsewhere in Vietnam that allocation of secure long-term title to land can,
among other things, reduce the opportunity for in-migration. Although current GOV
policy favors planned migration as a means of ensuring orderly labor mobility and equal
access to economic opportunity, there is recognition of the need to limit migration into
the project buffer zone areas to ensure long-term sustainability of the PA. The provincial
governments have provided written assurances that no new Economic Zones will be
established in the project area.
5.18  Another risk is that, despite receiving project benefits, existing local communities
will fail to support the project's conservation objective, but will continue to press
demands for remaining forest resources in the PA and surrounding buffer zone. The main



- 36 -
aim of the buffer zone component is to reduce this pressure by introducing alternative
income-generating activities and to build support for the PA among local communities
and authorities. Access to project funds will be directly linked to cooperation and
compliance on the part of the beneficiaries, with the expectation that as some
communities begin to benefit from cooperation and participation, other will follow their
lead. The pace of implementation of the buffer zone component will therefore be set by
the communities and not "tied" to a predetermined implementation schedule.
5.19  Many project interventions are inter-dependent. Inadequate coordination and
ineffective sequencing of key activities is, therefore, an important risk for project success.
Such a risk is critical for the effective preparation of the multiple-step Commune Action
Plan (which requires timely coordination among PPMU, CAG and CWG) and the
effective transfer of appropriate technology packages (which requires timely coordination
among VBA&RD, DEC and the private sector  for extension, input supply and
marketing). A significant amount of technical assistance is being provided to ensuring
timely effective planning and training for these activities and thus should minimize this
risk.



I



- 37 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS
6.1   The conditions of credit effectiveness and disbursement as well as agreements and
understandings reached during project negotiations are as follows:
During negotiations the Government submitted:
(a)   Policy Framework for Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected
Persons approved by MARD;
(b)  Ethnic Minorities Development Plan approved by MARD;
(c)  Letter of Agreement from VBA&RD to provide commercial credit to
project communes, and
(d)  Written assurances from each of the participating Provincial People's
Committee that no new Economic Zones .would be established in the
project buffer zone area.
Agreements Reached During Negotiations:
(a)   Any involuntary resettlement of persons as a result of the project would be
carried out in accordance with the Policy Framework for Resettlement and
Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons approved by GOV (para. 5.13).
(b)   The project will be implemented with due regard to the provisions of the
Ethnic Minorities Development Plan approved by GOV (para. 5.12)
(c)   The revised draft Management Plans for Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve
and Cat Tien National Park would be submitted to IDA for review and
comments by January 31, 1999 (para. 2.7).
(d)   The Social Support Grant would be implemented in accordance with
selection criteria and guidelines specified in the Project Implementation
Manual and acceptable to IDA; (ii) each grant would be based on the
Commune Action Plan and made under a conservation agreement between
representatives of the beneficiaries, Director of the PA and PPMU on the
basis of a model agreement acceptable to IDA; and (iii) a report evaluating
the implementation performance of the SSG and CAP would be prepared
as part of the mid-term review (para. 2.13).



- 38 -
(e)   Irrigation schemes and road rehabilitation works eligible for funding under
the rural infrastructure subcomponent must conform to the selection
criteria and follow the guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation
Manual (paras. 2.18).
(f)   State Forest Enterprises studies and time-bound implementation plan
would be furnished to IDA for review and comments by June 30, 1999
(para. 2.17).
(g)   GOV would make available to MARD a budget allocation as part of
counterpart funds to cover the cost of custom duties and taxes (para. 3.2).
(h)   Project Implementation Manual would be applied to all implementation
aspects of the project, and revisions will require prior IDA review (para.
4.7)
(i)   (i) consolidated accounts for all components would be maintained for
annual auditing by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (ii) the
consolidated project accounts together with the auditor's report would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each financial year
(para. 3.19).
(j)   (i) Procurement of goods and services financed under the project would be
undertaken in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised January 1996 and
August 1996) and Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (January
1997), using standard documents, satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) a
supplemental letter would be signed with the Development Credit
Agreement stating agreed revisions to the Borrower's local procurement
procedures required to meet IDA's procurement policy (para. 3.4).
(k)   (i) adequate policies and procedures would be maintained to monitor and
evaluate project implementation and achievement of objectives on an
ongoing basis; in accordance with performance indicators specified in a
supplemental letter to be signed with the Development Credit Agreement
(para. 2.5); and (ii) a monitoring and evaluation system would be
established by December 31, 1998 (para. 4.8).
(1)   (i) progress reports including results of the independent monitoring and
auditing team would be furnished to IDA for review by July 31 and
January 31 of each year, beginning with July 31, 1998; and (ii) an annual
work plan, financing plan, and procurement plan for project activities for
the next calendar year would be furnished to IDA for review and
comments by August 31 of each year, beginning August 31, 1998 (paras.
3.4 & 4.9).



- 39 -
(m)   (i) a joint mid-term review would be carried out no later than March 31,
2001; and (ii) a mid-term report that summarizes the results of the
monitoring and evaluation program; assesses progress achieved in project
implementation,  makes  recommendations  to  ensure  efficient
implementation of the remainder of the project and achievement of project
objectives, and identifies financing sources to cover post-project recurrent
costs would be prepared and furnished to IDA by January 31, 2001 (paras.
4.11 and 5.8).
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)  The establishment of national-level Project Steering Committee and Project
Management Unit with a manager (para. 4.4);
(b)  Establishment of Provincial Project Steering Committee and Provincial
Project Management Unit with a manager in each of the five participating
provinces (para 4.4);
(c)  The submission of the Project Implementation Manual adopted by MARD
(para 4.7).
Condition of Disbursement:
(a)  A list of irrigation and road rehabilitation schemes based on selection
criteria and guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, with
exception of access road upgrades for CTNP and CMRNR and between Mo
Ray commune and CMRNR, is a condition of disbursement of the rural
infrastructure subcomponent (para. 2.18).
B. RECOMMENDATION
6.2   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Credit of SDR 15.9 million (US$21.5 million equivalent) with a 40 year
maturity on standard IDA terms including a grace period of 10 years to the Socialist
Republic of Vietnam.






- 40 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 4
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Participatory Preparation Process
1.     Detailed preparation of the project was carried out by a team of local and international
consultants under the supervision of a National Project Steering Committee and National Project
Coordinator (NPC) from MARD in three stages:
*   Stage I (October - December 1995) focused on information collection and
consultation to prepare a description and analysis of the present situation.
*   Stage II (January - February 1996) involved intensive consultation based on the
findings of Stage 1, validation of information, leading to formulation of a project
implementation strategy and confirmation of project components.
*   Stage III (March - May 1996) involved finalizing the development strategy for the
project and detailed planning of implementation arrangements. The Final Report
was completed in August 1996 following a workshop in Hanoi in July 1996 to
review the Draft Final Report.
2.     A Planning Facilitator was part of the preparation team to ensure that a participatory
approach was taken and to coordinate a systems analysis of issues related to the project design.
The former task involved the facilitation of a range of group interactions; individual discussions
with consultants; encouraging and facilitating the use of appropriate participatory methods; and
facilitating an improved understanding of the meaning of, and ways to, implement participation
so team members could critically reflect upon, review, and develop their own approach and
outcomes.
3.     Four formal "stakeholders" workshops were held; at the beginning of Stage I, Stage II
and Stage III and, to review the Draft Final Report. Other workshops for specific purposes were
also held. These workshops and their outputs are briefly described below.
Initial Project Workshop
4.     An initial project workshop was held in Hanoi from 1-3 November 1995 attended by
foreign and local consultants, government counterparts and resource persons (including
international NGOs) familiar with the issues to be addressed by the project. The purpose of the
workshop was to i) introduce consultants and counterparts to the participatory process, ii)
develop a common appreciation of the issues to be addressed begin to assess priorities and iii)
agree a detailed work plan for Stage I of the study.
5.     A series of plenary presentations and review sessions and small group discussions was
employed to consider:
*  a historical review of factors affecting the forest sector in Vietnam;
* future trends and factors affecting developments in the forest sector;
* identification of the various groups of people and institutions involved in or affected
by the proposed project;



- 41 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 4
*  discussion of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and constraints which the project
could build upon or accommodate, and;
*  discussion of the clhanges that a successful project would bring about.
National Workshop to Review the Inception Report
6.     The purpose of the workshop, held in Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) from 10-12 January
1996, was to review the Inception Report, and facilitate a structured discussion regarding key
issues affecting project design which were identified in the report and subsequent discussions.
This information would be Lused to help formulate a detailed workplan for Stage II of
preparation. Four key issues were discussed in group and plenary discussions: i) definition of the
Buffer Zone, ii) migration and resettlement, iii) protected area management and, iv) sustainable
rural development.
National Workshop to Review the Interim Report
7.     This workshop was held in HCMC on 12-13 March 1996. The aim was to ensure that
the proposed project design framework met key stakeholders expectations and approval, prior to
the detailed planning for implementing this framework which would forn the final stage of
project preparation. This was achieved by reviewing the Interim Report, hearinig reports on the
main outcomes of the PRA/social survey activities, and then giving all participants a chance to
comment on any aspects of the work to date.
8.     Representatives were invited through NPC from the five participating provinces, and
from  planning and inventory institutes, i.e., FIPI and NIAPP.   Participants included
representatives of relevant government ministries and organizations, and provincial
representatives. Two provinces sent Vice-Chairman of the provincial Peoples' Committee who
also chaired the project's Provincial Steering Committee. Fifty one participants attended at least
one day of the workshop.
National Workshop to Review the Draft Final Report
9.     This workshop was held in Hanoi 4 July 1996. The aim was to review the Draft Final
Report and confirm stakeholders acceptance of the proposed project design and arrangements for
implementation. The review was undertaken in a formal meeting format whereby a presentation
by the NPC and consultant team leader was followed by comments from representatives of each
national government agency, participating province, and international NGOs.
10.    Workshop participants endorsed the proposed project design and confirmed that it is
consistent with existing government policies and builds upon existing experiences. There was
also agreement that all components and activities identified are necessary to meet the project
objective of protecting high value forest biodiversity in Vietnam. Major concerns raised relate to
the relatively high project management cost as compared to overall project cost and the need to
clarify financing mechanisms relating to national and provincial government financing. The
high cost of project management related to the need for building implementation capacity to
undertake a relatively complex project in five provinces and the "pilot nature" of the bottom up
planning process involved. Approval was given to finalize the preparation report.



- 42 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 4
Provincial and local level consultations
11.   Following the initial workshop in Hanoi on 1-3 November 1995, each Provincial
Steering Committee was requested to nominate a Provincial Coordinator to act as the focus for
communications regarding the preparation work.  A workshop was held with Provincial
Coordinators in HCMC on 7 November to:
* introduce Provincial Coordinators and others from government agencies in HCMC
to the preparation team and the objectives of the preparation exercise;
* discuss the outputs of the first workshop in Hanoi;
* plan field visit program;
*  discuss information requirements.
12.   Although it was envisaged that Provincial Working Groups would also be formed to
facilitate consultation with project beneficiaries and affected groups at the local level, it proved
difficult because this concept is new in Vietnam and does not fit into their normal administrative
procedures. In the absence of the Provincial Working Groups, the start of the PRA exercises was
used to introduce local stakeholders from the Buffer Zone communes and districts to the project,
and to inform them about progress with its development. In each of the three PRA exercises (in
Dong Nai, Kon Tum and Lam Dong provinces) an initial three day interactive training and
planning workshop was held. The aim of this was to train the small team who would
subsequently conduct the PRA exercises in the villages, and to inform local leaders about the
exercise and about the objectives, scope, and timing of the project. A key aim was to try to
ensure full understanding by local leaders of the preliminary nature of this exercise, and to try to
limit their expectations.
Team Meetings
13.   Throughout preparation process, team  meetings and workshops were organized,
involving local counterparts, local and foreign consultants to ensure that a participatory approach
was taken throughout all the project preparation stages. It enabled sharing of insights and
developing a systematic analysis of the issues. Regular summaries of key issues, principles and
guidelines were also produced from these team working sessions, which were incorporated into
Working Papers and specific aspects of project design.
Testing of the community participation approach
14.   During preparation, draft Commune Action Plans (CAPs) were prepared for Dak Lua
Commune, Tan Phu District, Dong Nai Province, and Le R'Mam Village of Mo Ray Commune,
Sa Thay District, Kon Tum Province for the following reasons: (i) field test the CAP process;
and (ii) establish how project-wide technical proposals could be applied at community level.
Preparatory PRAs of these communes was carried out in February 1996, and the Indicative
Development Plan was developed in April 1996. These exercises further tested the proposed
participatory and consultative process and the means by which community participation will be
applied during project implementationi.



- 43 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 4
Other Interactions during Project Preparation
15.   A wide range of groups, organizations and individuals were consulted by team members.
These include Vietnamese Forestry, Science and Technology Association; Central Council of
Cooperative Unions and Small and Medium Enterprises of Vietnam; Australian Center for
International Agricultural Research; University of Agriculture and Forestry HCMC; Cat Tien
National Park; World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF); CARE; Forest Inventory and Planning
Institute (FIPI); National Institute of Agricultural Planning and Projection (NIAPP); Forest
Science Institute of Vietnam; University of Can Tho; Institute of Social Sciences HCMC;
Programme De Recherche Forestiere CNRS France-Vietnam; Anthropology Institute; National
Environment Authority; Institute of Environment and Biological Research; credit institutions,
and other development projects related to this project (Dutch, Danish, Japanlese, World Bank,
and UNDP). In addition, during field visits, a wide range and number of discussions were held
with local institutes, commercial enterprises, forest enterprises, households in the Buffer Zone,
and communes and district officials from Buffer Zones areas.
16.   A pre-project preparation meeting was held between the National Project Steering
Committee, NPC, (potential) participating provincial People's Committee Vice-Chair or
designate, World Bank, and consultant team leader to clarify project objectives, roles and
responsibilities of each concerned party, and needs and requirements of preparation team. This
was a pre-requisite to developing a shared vision of and commitment to the project.
17.   Two meetings with interested NGOs were convened by MARD. A third took place
during the pre-project preparation mission. These consultations provided opportunities for
NGOs to express concerns and to share their experiences in carrying-out similar types of projects
in Vietnam.



- 44 -
Ann  2
Page 1 of 1
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Dutch-funded Cat Tien National Park Conservation Project Activities
Management Constraint                     CTNPCP Intervention
CTNP not gazetted              Follow up procedures to have Park officially gazetted
CTNP regulations not yet approved  Not specifically addressed
or implemented
Basic resources information not  Surveys/inventories on biodiversity and socio-economic
complete                       issues to be carried out.
Ecological dynamics of CTNP not   Comprehensive applied wildlife research and habitat
known                          monitoring programmes to be established
Detailed strategies for CTNP zone   Management plan for CTNP to be reviewed and modified
management not described
CTNP boundaries not demarcated    Boundaries to be demarcated in the field
Natural resources not adequately    CTNP infrastructure to be improved including renovation of
protected                      Park HQ, sub-HQ and guard stations; rehabilitation of road
in Nam Cat Tien sector; construction of bridges, culverts,
watch towers; and the installation of a radio network.
Educational potential of CTNP not  School education programme to be designed and
fully recognised               implemented
Visitor facilities poorly developed   Par Visitor Centre to be set up. Information booklets, Park
posters, etc. to be designed and distributed
Tourism potential undeveloped  Income generating opportunities for the Park and local
human population to be improved through appropriate
infrastructure development and a Park promotion campaign
in the media.
Local people not fully involved in   CTNPCP will 'pilot test' a participatory approach involving
decision-making                extensive consultation with villagers, local administration
authorities and community groups.
Minimal benefits derived by local   Appropriate buffer zone development activities to be
people                         designed and initiated (but in selected areas only).
Park equipment inadequate and  new equipment including motor cycles, vehicles, boats,
poorly maintained              radio network, desktop computer, photocopier, and fax to be
supplied and maintained
Park personnel at all levels are  Appropriate training to be arranged under the auspices of
poorly trained                 UNDP/GEF Project No. VIE/9 1/G3 1 A/ I G/3 1



- 45 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Project Communes
1.    The Project Area (protected area and buffer zone) for CTNP consists of approximately
170,000 people in 30 communes and two district towns, and for CMRNR about 20,000 people in
seven communes and one district town.
Provinces. Districts and Communes which Constitute the Project Buffer Zone
AreaJProvince          Project Area District      Buffer Zone Commune
Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve
Kon Tum                      Sa Thay                Sa Son, Sa Nhon, Mo Ray, Ro
Khoi, Ya Sir,
Sa Thay Township
Ngoc Hoi               Sa Loong, Bo Y
Cat Tien National Park
Dong Nai                     Tan Phu                Phu Lap, Nui Tuong, Nam Cat
Tien, Phu An, Ta Lai Dak Lua
Vinh Cuu               Phu Ly
Dinh Quan              Thanh Son
Lam Dong                     Bao Lam                Loc Bac
Da Teh                 Quoc Oai, An Nhon, Huong Lam,
Da Lay, Da Kho, Da Teh township
Cat Tien              Phuoc Cat 1 Gia Vien. Nam Ninh
Duc Pho Mv Lam  Tu Nghia  Phu
ya Quang Nai Dong Nai
Township, Tien Hoang, Phuoc Cat
2
Binh Phuoc                   Bu Dang                Dang Ha, Dong Nai, Thong Nhat,
Doan Ket
Dak Lak                      Dak R'Lap              Dao Nghia, Dak Sinh
Note:  For the 12 communes and one township shown in italics above the Dutch-funded Cat Tien
National Park Conservation Project will fund social support activities and design of
irrigation/water control structures while the project will implement land allocation, forest
management activities, strengthening of agricultural support services and the construction of roads
and irrigation systems.



- 46 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
2.     The population of the communities in the Project area can broadly be divided into three
categories:
i) Indigenous Ethnic Minorities who are original residents of the area and traditionally
live in close association with the forest. These people practice varying degrees of
shifting cultivation, though most live in settled communities. Traditionally they have
made extensive use of forest products for subsistence purposes. They are mostly
poor and dependent on forest products for at least part of the year (Gia Rai, S'Tieng,
Chau Ma, Ha Lang, Cho Ro and R'Mam);
ii) members of the predominant Kinh ethnic group who have settled over the past 15
years or so and are now well established mainly in the river plains where they
cultivate wetland rice. They may engage in some hunting and trading in forest
products. This group generally has the highest living standards;
iii) Newly arrived settlers, mostly ethnic minorities from northern Vietnam but also
some Kinh. These communities tend to occupy upland areas between the lowlands
and the forest and are extensively engaged in clearing of land for agriculture. (Tay,
Nung, Dao, Cao Lan, Hmong, and Hoa).
Ethnic Group Breakdown
Name of Project      Total.      Indigenous Ethnic    Immigrated       Immigrated
Area:         Population        Minorities        Kinh Ethnic       Ethnic
Group         Minorities
CMRNR                20,115        10,529 (52%)        7,611 (38%)     1,976 (10%)
CTNP                106,432        11,580 (11%)       84,940 (80%)     9,912 (9%)
Note: The figures for CTNP do not include approximately 60,000 persons living in 12 communes and
one district town covered under the Dutch funded Cat Tien National Park Conservation project.
3.     The Kinh have mainly entered the area as cultivators of wet rice and industrial crops
within the government-sponsored migration, providing labour for State Enterprises and New
Economic Zones, or in more recent unorganised migration as traders and farmers. They have
been able to secure land for wet-rice cultivation, are welcomed by the local authorities, and have
increased the pressure on land.
4.     The ethnic minorities who migrated recently from the northern provinces started arriving
around 1987, but most have come after 1990. They have settled in large numbers between Cat
Tien National Park and Cat Loc Nature Reserve. Many, primarily Nung and Tay, have
constructed rainfed wet ricefields, while the smaller groups to some extent make a living from
sedentary shifting cultivation. So far, there is only limited contact between these groups and the
local authorities, and they further reduce land availability for the indigenous ethnic groups.
5.    The groups most dependent on subsistence products from the forest are the indigenous
minorities and the recent settlers who are still trying to establish an agricultural or alternative
livelihood basis. Because of growing population pressure the agricultural practices of these



- 47 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
groups are becoming increasingly unsustainable. Field surveys showed a high correlation
between the level of poverty and dependence on forest products. Other closely related factors
were proximity of the community to the forest and the presence of indigenous minorities in the
community.
6.    The villages in the buffer zone communes are homogeneously populated, i.e. they are
either kinh, indigenous minorities or immigrated ethnic minorities.



- 48 -                                       Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
Attachment 1: Population and Land Use by Communes in the Project Areas
Province            Households Persons                                          Land area
Hardwood   Bamboo
Total      Agric. land  Forest     Forest      Mixed Forest Total Forest Other
Song Be (1992) - (now Binh Phuoc)                                                                                       153696
Bu Dang
Dang Ha                                    15250        2025        1075        3900        6700      11675         1550
Dong Nai              327        1540       9200         475        4925        1075          75       6075        2650
Thong Nhat           1465        7121      14075         175        6650         950        2075        9675       4225
Doan Ket             1665       7723        9075         850        1550           0        1000       2550        5675
Sub total            3457       16384      47600        3525       14200        5925        9850      29975       14100
Dong Nai (1995)                                                                                                        107467
Tan Phu
Phu Lap              1339       6715        1475        1100           0           0           0           0        375
NuiTuong              927       4808        2700        1600          75           0           0          75       1025
Dak Lua              1237       6211        3300        1750           0         325         725        1050        500
Nam Cat Tien         1243       6151        2100         925        1075           0           0        1075         100
Phu An                700       3215        5100           0         275           0           0         275       4825
Ta Lai               1420       7147        1950        1625           0           0           0           0         325
Sub Total            6866      34247       16625        7000        1425         325         725        2475       7150
Vin Cuu
Phu Ly               3516       11812      20850        1350       15550         800        2000       18350        1150
Dinh Quan
Than Son             5621      26574       26225        4350       17825           0           0       17825       4050
Lam Dong (1992)
Sao Loc
Loc Bac               578       2864       20650         125        5950        6000        7025       18975        1550
CatTien
PhoucCat1            1221       6180        1575        1175           0           0           0           0         400
GiaVien               987       4689         1700       1125         400          50           0         450         125
Nam Dhin              423       2008        2200         250           0           0        1325        1325         625
Duc Pho               496       2509        1275        1150           0           0           0           0         125
My Lam                203         976        950         100           0           0         625         625         225
Tu Nghia              252        1275        1450        150           0          50        1250        1300           0
Phu My                689       3340         650         650           0           0           0           0           0
Quang Nai             352        1724        975         625           0         225         100         325          25
Phouc Cat 2           370        1984        525         175          75           0           0          75        275
Tien Hoang            454        2375       4150         450         775         575        2175        3525         175
Dong Nai town                               1175         800           0           0           0           0        375
Sub total            5447      27060       16625        6650        1250         900        5475        7625       2350
Da Te
Quaoc Oai             642       2979        6250         500        1775        1250        2725        5750           0
An Nhon               677        3297       7450        1075        1475         650        4250        6375           0
Huong Lam             357        1795       4050         375         225           0        3450       3675            0
Da Lay                550       2717        2150        1200          25         925         950        1900           0
Da Kho                828       4056        4275         575        1075           0        2500        3575         125
Da Teh town                                 2825        1900         150           0         550         700         225
Sub Total            3054       14844      27000        5625        4725        2825       14425      21975          350
Dac Lak (1992)
Dak R'Lap
Dak R'Lap            1074       5559        7900        2675        4650         475        7800       12925         100
Project area: Cat Tien National Park
Communes
Song Be              3457       16384      47600        3525.      14200        5925        9850      29975        14100
Lam Dong             9079      44768       64275       12400       11925        9725       26925      48575        4250
Dong Nai            16003      72633       63700       12700       34800        1125        2725      38650       12350
Dac Lak              1074        5559       7900        2675        4650         475        7800       12925         100
Total               29613      139344     183475       31300       65575       17250       47300      130125      30800
Province            Households Persons                                          Land area
Total      Agric. land  Hardwood   Bamboo    Mixed Forest Total Forest Other
Forest     Forest
Kontum (1992)                                                                                                           164036
Ngoc Hoi
SaLoong               930       4639        9900         725        2725        4500           0        7225        1950
BoY                   547        2611       9575         275        1050        7125           0       8175         1125
Sa Thay
Sa Son                247        1071       4375         125        1025        2400           0        3425         825
Sa Nhon               373        1721       11725        575        4350        3475           0        7825        3325
Sa Nghia                                    4225         175         825        2875           0        3700         350
Mo Ray                280        1533     157600        1345      105000       31285       14170      150455        5800
Ro Khoi               503       2357        9875          75        2625         275           0        2900       6900
Ya Sir                385        1971        5900        100        2475        3325           0        5800           0
Sa Thay town                                1325         275          50         575           0         625         425
Mom Ray Area               3265       15903     214500        3670      120125       55835       14170      190130      20700
Source: Forest Inventory and Planning Insititute, and others



THE-SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project: Project Objectives and Outputs
Global Objective: Environmental protection improved by protection and management of natural forests with high biodiversity.l
Protect biodiversity through effective management  Effective Managementofbufferzoneforests       Develop rural areas in the buffer zone to reduce  Strengthen the capacity of GOV to work
E     of Cat Tien National Park (CTNP) and Chu Mom       for CTNP and CMRNR                            dependency on CTNP and CMRNR.                     effectively to design, implement, and monitor
o .z    RRay Nature Reserve (CMRNR)                                                                                                                         integrated conservation and development projects
Effective management and protection                Effective management and protection           Household incomes and food security
systems in place                                   systems in place                              improved
Restructuring plans for selected State        Basic social needs I infrastructure provided
Forestry Enterprises (SFEs) completed    :._                          
Wildlife and habitat research monitoring           F        E         (      c                   R
program inplace                                                                                  Reduce migration into buffer
ffi                                       | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Effective community development planning for livelihood inmprovement in buffer zone in place| *
Sustainable visitor program and
conservation awareness campaign in place           Training of agricultural. extension packages; development, promotion, and implementation w/
X       (CMRNR)                                            private sector in buffer zone completed
Effective coordination between protection staff and buffer zone communities in place
Training of CMRNR and Provincial / District staff for intensified conservation and management  .
completed                                                                                                                                                                                     CD 1 
ol
Rural Development                      Institutional Development
Forest Protection and Management                                                      in Buffer Zone



THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Key Performance Monitoring Indicators
Overall Objective: Assist GOV to protect and manage naturalforests with high biodiversity.
Development                Impact Indicators              Output Indicators             Process Indicators            Responsibility for
Objectives                                                                                                              Verification
1. Protect biodiversity    reduced incidence of              increased number of people    all planned personnel in place   Forest Protection Department
through effective           1) illegal harvesting and transport   in buffer zone aware of  I Management Plan revised    (FPD)
management of CTNP and    of PA forest products to appoach   conservation values in PA:                                PA director
CMRNR                      zero, and                          -GOV staffNGOs: 100%                                     Baseline survey (Monitoring
2) unwarranted fire by 50%        -Farmers HH: 70%                                         team)
-Youth/students: 80%
2. Effective management    extent of forest cover in buffer  I100% of forest land in     I100% of area surveyed and     PMU
systems for buffer zone    zone increased by 10%, and        buffer zone allocated        allocated for permitted forest   Provincial and district PFD
forests                    barren land decreased by 50%                                   land use                     MARD/ Unit for               cn
3 State Forest Enterprises   restructuring State Forest  0
restructuring plan completed    Enterprises               l
3. Develop rural areas in  reduce proportion of people facing   100% of households with  90% of poor HH benefiting    PPMU
the buffer zone to reduce  food security problems to 25%     land use certificates in     directly by the Social Support  Provincial Department of
dependency on CTNP and     less than 5% of conservation      buffer zone                  Program of the Commune       Land Administration (PDLA)
CMRNR                      agreements violated/abrogated    I100% of the area in buffer   Action Plan (CAP)
zone covered by land
allocation
4. Strengthen capacity of  extent to which approach is       40 (37 communes and 3        40 Commune Working Groups  PPMU
government to design,      incorporated into government      towns) Commune Action        (CWG) established, trained,  MARD/Policy Department
monitor, and implement     policies and programs for forest  Plans approved               and functioning              MPI
integrated conservation and    protection
development projects                                                                                                                               .
kc
M:\SUSAN\VIETNAM\FOR-PROT\ANNEX\ANNEX4.099                                                                                                       D
September 10, 1997 12:53 PM
Since Protected Area (PA) management activities are being financed under a separate project, CTNPCP, and is not under the direct influence of the proposed project,  l
the development objective can only address strengthening protection through buffer zone activities to alleviate the pressure on the PA.






- 51 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Description of Community Development Planning Process
I.    Success of the proposed project will, in part, require a change in the actions and attitudes
of the communities which presently exploit the Protected Areas. This will be achieved by
providing for the informed participation of the community in the decision-making process,
ensuring that programs in each community are tailored to the needs and priorities of the people
involved. Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) methods will be used to assess those needs and
ensure that the needs of all segments of the community including ethnic minorities and the very
poor are considered.
2.    The aim of community development planning process is to identify and plan for the socio-
economic development needs of Buffer Zone communities and to establish a basis for further socio-
economic progress. The proposed planning process leading to development of a draft Commune
Action Plan (CAP) builds upon models being applied in Vietnam and elsewhere in Asia and was
field tested in two project communes during preparation.
3.    This process consists of the following steps to be facilitated by a Community Advisory
Group (CAG) consisting of experts in sociology, PRA methods, agroforestry, agro-economics
and other specialties, contracted by the Project (see Project Implementation Manual for more
detail):
*  Preparation visit to the villages of one commune, estimated to last seven to ten days,
during which time the CAG would inform villagers about the Project and discuss
possible activities within the scope of the Project.
*  Conduct a PRA exercise in each village to collect baseline information, identify
initial and urgent needs of the communities, and identify representatives to form a
project Commune Working Group (CWG).
*  Consultation and assessment of feasibility of proposed activities with commune and
district technical staff.
* Return to villages to validate information and adjust plans.
*  Negotiation and finalization of CAP with commune, and formal establishment of
CWG, confirmed by the Commune People's Council.
4.    During this process, all concerned parties will be involved, including provincial, district
and commune staff, village leaders and farmers, men and women. An initial PRA will establish a
broad range of information about the commune and the needs and priorities of all its people. The
PRA will also identify a minimum of five respected and capable people to form the CWG, which
will act as a coordinating group between the Project and its agents, the Commune People's
Committee, villagers, traders and others in the community. The CWG will include representatives
from the poorer segments of the commune, relevant women's groups and every indigenous ethnic
minority group. The CWP will be established by, and be directly accountable to, the Commune
People's Council.



- 52 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
5.     The CAG  will work closely in the field with staff of the Provincial Extension
Center/District Extension Center (PEC/DEC), and other relevant technical agencies at all stages
during the planning process. Representatives of these agencies will be invited to participate in the
PRA process and to provide additional technical support during review of the needs and priorities
of Buffer Zone communities and during negotiation of the CAP. Local technical staff and
community participants will thus gain experience in the use of PRA methods and the formulation of
community-based plans.
6.     A prioritized list of investment proposals for project assistance will form the basis of
negotiations between the CWG representing the beneficiaries in the commune and the Project to
reach agreement on a draft CAP. The purpose of the negotiation is to establish the basis for
counterpart contribution from beneficiaries of Project investments, to obtain commitment from the
community regarding maintenance, and to agree on the conservation measures which will be
conditional for funding the CAP. (See Table I for elements of negotiations).
7.    In return for goods and services provided by the Project, the CWG, on behalf of the
commune beneficiaries, will be required to enter into a conservation agreement with the Director
of PA to respect restrictions on activities which may adversely affect the Protected Areas. This
agreement also will be signed by the Director of PPMU and representatives of the mass
organizations in the Commune as the basis for provision of Project goods and services.
8.     Compliance with the conservation agreement will be monitored by the CWG and staff of
the Protected Area Management Board on a regular basis and periodically by PPMU staff.
Sanctions for breach of contract may include suspension of disbursements on1 Project activities
(either for specific activities or for the commune's annual program), repayment of benefits received
by beneficiaries (where practical), and ineligibility for rural infrastructure investments (for which
proposals are likely to be considered after year 3 of implementation).
9.     Since it would not be possible to conduct the planning process at all participating
communes at the same time, priority will be determined for each province by the PPMU and
confirmed by PPSC based on selection criteria listed in Table 2.
Sequence of Implementation
10.    The community development planning process will be implemented in parallel with the
commune-based, land use planning and land allocation process. This will ensure that development
alternatives considered are consistent with community consensus on sustainable land use practices.
Land allocation will encourage stable long term land use, reduce land disputes and limit the growth
in population pressure due to spontaneous in-migration.



- 53 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
Table 1: Commune Action Plan Negotiation
Negotiation                                 Description
Element
Conservation     The CAP wi ll include a conservation agreement to support the conservation
Agreement        objective of the project. The agreement will be negotiated and signed by the
CWG on behalf of beneficiaries and PA director, and also signed by
representatives of mass organisations in the commune and the provincial
project manager. Sub-projects will be supported on the basis of an agreement
between the CWG and the beneficiary household(s) or community group(s).
Social Support    The Project will allocate grant funds to the commune for Social Support at a rate
Grant            of US$300 per poor household as defined by government criteria. Eligible
households include permanent and provisionally registered people.
Unregistered people will not be eligible, except in the case of indigenous ethnic
minorities. The grant is intended to meet community social needs, described in
separate guidelines, and will require a contribution from beneficiaries in cash or
in kind.
Rural            The CAG will present options for increasing household income through
Development      sustainable agricultural and agro-forestry development. Agricultural Support
Proposals        Services and Rural Infrastructure proposals may be funded by grant or
commercial credit from VBA&RD.
Land Allocation   The District People's Committee and the CWG will ensure that all commune
land is allocated to an approved individual or organisation (e.g. village
community group or state enterprise) user. This is a critical measure to reduce
the attractiveness of the Buffer Zone to free migration. As far as possible, the
land allocation process should ensure that all households applying for land
receive land to meet their basic needs. Poor households will receive priority for
allocation of land under Forest Protection Contracts.
Coordination     Implementation procedures must coordinate with those of the Dutch-funded Cat
Tien National Park (CTNP) Project to ensure that all communes have similar
responsibilities and assistance.
Approval Process  The CAP will be negotiated between the Project and CWG, signed by the CWG
of the CAP       chairperson, the PPMU Manager, representatives of mass organizations, and the
PA Director. The CAP, together with the conservation agreement, will be
submitted to Province Project Steering Committee (PPSC) for approval. After
approval by PPSC, the CAP will be included in the Project budget and workplan
for budget approval and implementation.



- 54 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
Table 2: Criteria for Priority Commune Development Plannilg
Selection Criteria                             Description
Communes which are    Borders the Protected Area
important to Project   Degree of actual or potential dependence on Protected Area
goals and rationale    High number of poor households
High number of indigenous minorities
Representative as      Enables a broad coverage of demonstration sites throughout the Buffer
"pilot" in a learning  Zone area
process                Initial sites to be representative according to:
- local capability
- geography
- ethnicity
- accessibility
Sites to be shared equitably between provinces and districts
Strategic success      Good potential for success
factors                 - access to information
- supportive leadership
- acceptance of the Project and support by the people
Less potential for success
- high population density
- lack of development options
- shortage of land
- Iiigh inward migration continuing
- social instability
11.    After social and economic support services are operating and the community has
demonstrated compliance to the conservation agreement, provision of larger development
investments in the form of public irrigation and local road rehabilitation will be considered. Care
will be taken to avoid the risk of in-migration due to a "magnet effect" caused by a higher level of
development services in areas where spontaneous migration cannot be effectively managed.



- 55 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of3
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Guidelines For Social Support Grants
1.    Purpose.  Improving the social well-being of the residents in the buffer zone
communities adjoining the Protected Areas (PA) of Cat Tien National Park and Chu Mom Ray
Nature Reserve is an important tool to secure local commitment to their protection. The buffer
zone communes, especially households nearest to the PA, tend to be poorer and are also likely to
be indigenous ethnic minorities. The Social Support Grants (SSG) program will provide small-
scale grants to local communities to finance environmentally sustainable economic activities that
contribute to a reduction in land-use pressures and in extraction of protected resources from the
PA. In addition, SSG program will strike a balance in social support -- to empower and improve
the social well-being of the relevant community and ensure that the vulnerable groups, which is
the most critical to forest protection, are not left out. Experiences from Vietnam and other
countries indicate that programs targeting development of the most vulnerable groups alone
often do not achieve their objectives since solutions to their problems invariably involve the
community (village/hamlet and commune) at large.
2.     Eligibility Criteria. SSG will be allocated to 40 participating project communes/district
towns based on US$300 per eligible household (i.e., those whose income is equivalent to or less
than 15 kg of rice per person per month). The use of the commune level SSG is determined by
the Commune Action Plan (CAP) developed by the communities themselves managed by a
Commune Working Group (CWG) assisted by a Commune Advisory Group (CAG). The CAP
will have, among other things, social support activities prioritized with respect to what is
important to the commune. These activities are likely to be communal in nature and/or be social
infrastructure-related such as:
*  activities which improve access to basic services of education, health or potable
water supplies (e.g., adding to or repairing of schools, health posts, community
activity buildings, and completion of electricity connections);
*  activities that improve social and environmental awareness (e.g., health training,
biodiversity and conservation awareness promotion)
*  activities which increase food security (ranging from assistance to poor households
for food/subsistence production, introduction of proper sloping agriculture
technologies to stabilize farm incomes, to establishment of community storage
facilities);
*  services which can provide more equitable access to economic opportunities,
especially for the poorer segment of the community (e.g., productive activities which
cannot be funded through the VBA&RD or other commercial banks because of lack
of collateral, agricultural field days, and marketing facilities);
*  services which ensure sustainability of community development efforts (e.g.,
training in organizing and managing community revolving funds);
*  activities which foster the retention of cultural traditions especially for indigenous
ethnic minorities (cottage industry promotion, language and cultural training for the
young)



-56-
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
3.    Restrictions for use of the SSG would be as follows:
(a) Each activity/investment should not exceed US$20,000;
(b) The investment proposal cannot include the following list of activities/investments
(some of which are covered by the rural infrastructure or agriculture support services
subcomponents):
*  upgrading or construction of commune to district or commune to commune
roads (minor culverts, bridges);
*  direct investment in commercial processing or manufacturing activity;
*  payment directly into another fund (e.g., community revolving fund) for
unspecified activities;
* secondary education or secondary health facilities;
* purchase of land or motorized vehicles;
* any project which may adversely impact on the PAs;
* any illegal activity.
4.    Application and Review Procedures. After the list of eligible activities have been
technically evaluated, prioritized and agreed upon by the CWG (with assistance from CAG), the
CAP will include a brief description of each subproject to be funded by the SSG, including (i)
inputs to be provided by both project implementors and beneficiaries; (ii) implementation
arrangements including procurement methods and schedule; (iii) commitment to maintain project
investments; and (iv) identification of direct beneficiaries of the subproject. Beneficiaries are
expected to pay a contribution in cash or in kind, equivalent to a minimum of 10 percent of the
value of each subproject investment. The CWG will then negotiate with the PA director on a list
of actions, including an agreement not to enter or exploit the core PA unsustainably, to be taken
by the communities in exchange for the CAP. A "conservation agreement" including the CAP
will then be submitted to the PPMU for review to ensure that all subprojects being proposed in
the CAP meet the agreed eligibility criteria. If any changes to the CAP are proposed, these must
be agreed with the CWG prior to signing. After final approval by the PPMU, the conservation
agreement will be signed by the chairperson of the CWG on behalf of the beneficiaries,
representatives of mass organizations, the PA Director, and PPMU.
5.    Implementation Procedures. After signing of the conservation agreement, annual
work and financial plans will be developed by the PPMU based on the agreed CAPs and budgets
allocated accordingly. CAP activities will be funded by the project through PPMU as contracts
either to communities directly or to specialist institutions, service agencies, and non-
governmental organizations. Where possible, organizations located within the commune or
nearby will be used. However, where small-scale activities at commune level may involve
engaging a community organization, contracting with the community organization may be
delegated to the CWG on behalf of the PPMU. CAP activities will normally be implemented
over a period of three years. Implementation of the CAP will be reviewed annually by PPMU.
Continued disbursement for CAP activities will be subject to ongoing observance of the
conservation agreement by beneficiaries.
6.    Financial Management. IDA will finance no more than 90 percent of a CAP; the
remainder will be financed by local counterpart funding from local government or beneficiaries



- 57 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
in cash or kind. GOV has indicated that any cost recovery from beneficiaries of the SSG could
be paid into a special livelihood fund at the village level (to be administered by the villagers
themselves) with the aim of improving the livelihood situation of poorer families.
7.    Monitoring and Evaluation. The CWG will regularly supervise the implementation of
the CAP, provide semi-annual progress reports to the PPMU, and review implementation
performance with PPMU prior to preparation of annual work and financial plan. The PPMUs
will be responsible for overall monitoring and supervision of the SSG program in their respective
provinces and for verifying the accuracy of the information included in the commune progress
reports with assistance from an independent Monitoring and Auditing Team (MAT). The MAT
will carry out such reviews on an annual basis. MARD/PMU will provide an evaluation report
that analyzes the implementation experience of the overall SSG program for the Mid-Term
Review of the project.



ietnam
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Components by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Local
The Government           IDA            Netherlands            Total                    (Excl.    Duties &
Amount    %        Amount      %      Amount    %         Amount      %      For. Exch.    Taxes)    Taxes
1. Protected Area Management                               622.9    17.2           -            3,002.8    82.8     3,625.7    11.2     1,698.7     1,609.6     317.4
2. Community Planning                                       25.9      3.6          -       -      698.2    96.4       724.1     2.2       475.1       236.7      12.3
3. Land Allocation                                         427.1    20.9      1,621.1    79.1         -             2,048.2     6.3       521.9     1,243.4     283.0
4. Social Support Program                                   581.1    16.7    2,902.1    83.3          -       -      3,483.2    10.8      146.7     3,200.1     136.3
5. Agricultural Support Services                          1,057.1    37.4     1,766.0    62.6         -       -     2,823.1     8.7       897.2     1,070.0     855.9
6. Forest Management                                       352.1    10.3    3,065.9    89.7           -       -      3,418.0    10.6      312.1     2,878.8     227.2
7. Rural Infrastructure Development                       1,571.4    13.1    10,460.6    86.9         -       -    12,032.0    37.3     2,975.9     8,488.0     568.0
8. Project Management and Institutional Development        979.3    23.7      1,698.3    41.1    1,458.1    35.3    4,135.7    12.8     2,425.2     1,347.5     362.9
Total Disbursement                                          5,616.9    17.4    21,513.9    66.6    5,159.1    16.0    32,290.0   100.0     9,452.8    20,074.2    2,763.0



Vietnam
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Components Project Cost Summary
(Dong Million)                                       (US$ '000)
%     % Total                                       %     % Total
Foreign   Base                                     Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange  Costs      Local     Foreign      Total   Exchange  Costs
1. Protected Area Management                               20,366.0     18,481.1    38,847.2      48       12     1,771.0    1,607.1     3,378.0      48       12
2. Community Planning                                       2,730.5      5,255.9     7,986.4      66        2       23i.4     457.0       694.5       66        2 C'
3. Land Allocation                                         16,877.0     5,829.9     22,706.9      26        7      1,467.6    506.9      1,974.5      26        7
4. Social Support Program                                  34,781.8      1,531.0    36,312.8       4       11      3,024.5     133.1     3,157.6       4       11
5. Agricultural Support Services                           20,876.8     9,862.9     30,739.7      32        9     1,815.4     857.6      2,673.0      32        9
6. Forest Management                                       32,658.3     3,416.3     36,074.6       9       11     2,839.9     297.1      3,136.9       9       11
7. Rural Infrastructure Development                        85,137.3    28,971.2    114,108.4      25       34     7,403.2    2,519.2     9,922.5      25       34
8. Project Management and Institutional Development        18,332.3    26,550.0    44,882.3       59       14      1,594.1    2,308.7    3,902.8      59       14
Total BASELINE COSTS                                         231,760.0    99,898.3    331,658.3      30     100    20,153.0    8,686.8    28,839.9       30     100
Physical Contingencies                                      8,402.1     2,271.4     10,673.5      21        3       730.6     197.5       928.1       21        3
Price Contingencies                                        48,712.7     15,523.7    64,236.4      24       19      1,953.5    568.5      2,522.0      23        9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          288,874.8    117,693.4    406,568.2     29     123    22,837.2    9,452.8    32,290.0       29      112
1t



Vietnam
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1998      1999      2000      2001      2002       2003      Total
1. Protected Area Management                              615.1    1,254.7    808.3      492.3     232.5     222.8     3,625.7
2. Community Planning                                     152.8     367.2     198.1        6.0         -         -       724.1
3. Land Allocation                                       1,152.6    760.3       36.1      32.3      33.1      33.8    2,048.2
4. Social Support Program                                     -     395.0      817.9     857.2     902.0     511.0    3,483.2
5. Agricultural Support Services                           11.6   2,065.8     312.8      157.9     157.6     117.5    2,823.1
6. Forest Management                                        7.2   1,057.5      749.4     523.8     537.9     542.1     3,418.0
7. Rural Infrastructure Development                           -    1,218.3     580.7   3,215.3   3,412.4   3,605.3   12,032.0
8. Project Management and Institutional Development      1,078.2   1,071.5    730.3      489.0     381.3     385.4     4,135.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        3,017.6   8,190.3   4,233.5   5,773.8   5,656.8   5,417.9    32,290.0
(3



Vietnam
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
DIsbursemnt Accounts by Financiers
(USS '000)
Local
The Govemnment          IDA            Netherlands           Total                    (Excl.    Duties &
Amount    %       Amount      %      Amount    %        Amount      %      For. Exch.   Taxes)     Taxes
1. CivilWorks                                            1,096.3    10.0    9,456.1    86.3    410.4      3.7    10,962.8    34.0    2,311.7    8,130.2     520.9  X
2. ParkWorks                                               38.3    10.0      344.3    90.0         -       -       382.5     1.2       71.9       292.4      18.2
3. Goods (Vehicles. Equipment, Agricultural Inputs)      1,899.7    44.1    2,007.6    46.6    404.9      9.4    4,312.2    13.4    1,521.1     1,034.4    1,756.7
4. Training                                                70.9    10.0      377.9    53.3      260.3    36.7      709.1     2.2       124.3      551.1      33.8
5. Technical Assistance                                      -        -      212.8     6.6   3,020.7    93.4    3,233.5    10.0    2,751.9        481.6         -
6. Forest Protection Contracts                               -        -     2,301.6   100.0        -              2,301.6    7.1          -     2,301.6         -
7. Field Activities, Surveying and Mapping                258.1    10.0    1,668.4    64.6     654.6    25.4    2,581.0      8.0       483.8     1,974.3    122.9
8. Social Support Grants                                  322.5    10.0    2,902.1    90.0         -       -      3,224.5    10.0         -     3,100.5     124.0
9. Incremental Expenses                                  1,931.2    42.1    2,243.3    49.0    408.2      8.9    4,582.7    14.2    2,188.2      2,208.0    186.5
Total                                                      5,616.9    17.4   21,513.9    66.6   5,159.1    16.0   32,290.0   100.0    9,452.8    20,074.2   2,763.0
JD
0._
O +



VIETNAM                                                                             Revised on 6/18/97
FOREST PROTECTION & RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selection of Consultants
tr 3, 1996     [     Qtrl, I                 tr 3, 1997            Qtr 1, 1998            Qtr 3, 1998             Qtr 1, 1999
ID  _Task Narne                               Start    Sep    Nov    Jan    Mar   May_   Jul    Sep    Nov    Jan    Mar   May    Jul    Sep    Nov    Jan    Mar   May
1    Project Processing Schedule               8MI/97.                                                             .    *
2        Credit Negotiations                   8/1/97.                                           r
3        Board Presentation                   9/23/97                            Board Presentatio     I23I97
4        Credit Signing                      11/12/97...                                            
5        Credit Effectiveness                 2/16/98                                              Credit 2ffectiveness    2116/98
6        Project Launch Workshop             11/17/97
7    Consultant Selection                      8/4/97                                                                     _
8        Advertise for Exp. of Interest        8/6/97              Advertise for Exp. of Interest (# -816197
9        PMU Prepares Draft TOR & LOI          8/4/97
10        Firms Express Interest                9/4/97
11       PMU Prepares Shortlists               10/2/97
12       IDA Revises TOR & LOI                  9/1/97
13       PMU Reviews Revised TOR & LOI        9/15/97
14        PMU Sends Draft Documents to IDA    10/6/97
15       IDA's No Objection                  10/16/97
16       PMU Invites Proposals                 11/6/97
17       Firms Send Proposals to PMU           11/7/97
18       PMU Opens Proposals                 12/19/97
19        PMU Evaluates Proposals             12V22/97
20        IDA's No Objection                   1/12/98               ..
21        Financial Negotiations                2/2/98
22        IDA's No Objection                   2/16/98
23        MARD & Firm Sign Contract           2/25/98
24        Mobilization of Consultants          3/11/98
25       Consultants in Post                  3/25/98                                                    Consultants in Post (  3125198



VIETNAM                                                                         Revised on 6/18/97
FOREST PROTECTION & RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ICB Procurement of Goods (First Batch)
r3,1996        Qtr 1,1997   ]   Qtr3,1997    |   Qtr1,1998          Qtr3,1998    ]   Qtr1,1999    |   Qtr 3,1999
ID   Task Name                               Start     S N         J    M    M       J    S    N    J           M      J J S         N     J    M    M       J    S    N
I   Project Processing Schedule                8/1/97            .                                      ,
2       Credit Negotiations                    8/1/97
3        Board Presentation                   9/23/97                  Board Presentatin (9/ 3/97
4        Credit Signing                      11/12/97
5        Credit Effectiveness                 2/16/98                               Credit Effect veness (32116/98-
6        Project Launch Workshop             11/17/97
7    ICB Procurt of Goods (First Batch)        9/1/97            .               .                                           -
8        MARD Prepares Requirts/Tech. Spec     9/1/97
9        Mission of Procurement Specialist   11/10/97
10       MARD Prepares Draft Bidding Docts    11/24/97
11       MARD Sends Draft Bidding Docts      12/22/97
12       IDA's No Objection                   12/29/97
13       MARD Advertises Invitations to Bid    1/12/98
14       Preparation & Submission of Bids      1/26/98
15       Bid Opening                          3/27/98                                           Bid Opening   3/2 /98
16       MARD Evaluates Bids                  3/30/98
17       IDA's No Objection                    5/4/98
18       MARD prepares contract               5/11/98
19       Contract Award                        6/1/98                                              ContractAward *6/1/98
20       MARD & Supplier Sign Contracts         6/2/98
21       IDA's No Objection                   6/16/98
22       MARD Opens Letters of Credit         6/23/98
23       Shipment & Transport                  7/14/98
24       Port Transit Formalities              8/18/98
25       Delivery of Goods                    9/14/98            ;                *                        Delivery of Goods  9/14/98



VIETNAM                                                                         Revised on 6/18197
FOREST PROTECTION & RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement of Goods by Local Shopping
De             |             1997                            1998              [              1999
ID   Task Name                              Start     Q3      Q4    Q1        Q2      Q3      04         1     2      03          4     1     02      03      04 1  Q1
1    Project Processing Schedule             8/1/97
2       Credit Negotiations                  8/1/97
3        Board Presentation                 9/23/97                   Board Presenttion  9/23J97
4        Credit Signing                    11/12/97
5        Credit Effectiveness               2/16198
6        Project Launch Workshop           11/17/97
7    Procurt of Goods by Local Shopping      9/1/97
8        MARD Prepares Requirts/Tech. Spec    9/1/97
9        Mission of Procurement Specialist  11/10/97
10       MARD Prepares Draft Invitation    11/17/97
11       MARD Sends Draft Invitation       12/22/97
12       IDNs No Objection                 12/29/97
13       MARD Invites Price Quotations      1/12/98
14       Submission of Price Quotations     1/13/98
15       MARD Evaluates Offers              1/22V98
16       IDAs No Objection                  2/12/98
17       Contract Award                     2/19/98                                    Contract Awat  -2J19J98
18       Payment Arrangements               2/20/98
19       Delivery of Goods                  3113/98                                    DelIvery o Goods   3/13/98
alo



VIETNAM                                                                           Revised on 6/18/97
FOREST PROTECTION & RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NCB Procurement of Goods (First Batch)
96                       19]                        11998            I     ~      1999            [2000
ID   Task Name                                 start     03     Q      Ql       2 Q3    04  01 Q22   03   Q4 Qi 02              03 Q4                       Ql Q2         03 Q24
I    Project Processing Schedule                8/1197
2        Credit Negotiations                    8/1/97
3        Board Presentation                    9/23/97BorPesnain()12I7
4        Credit Signing                       11/12/97
6        Credit Effectiveness                  2/16/98                          CeI  fetvns  ~-I69
6        Project Launch Workshop              11/17/97
7    NCB Procurt of Goods (First Batch)        9/24/97--
8        MAFF Prepares Requirts/Tech. Spec     9/24/97
9        Mission of Procurement Specialist    11/10/97
10       MAFF Prepares Draft Bidding Docts     12/10/97
1 1      MAFF Sends Draft Bidding Docts         1/14/98
12       IDA's No Objection                     1/21/98
13       MAFF Issues Invitations to Bid         2/11/98
14       Preparation & Submission of Bids       2/12/98
15       Bid Opening'                           3/16/98BIOpng*3/69
16       MAFF Evaluates Bids                    3/16/98
17       IDA's No Objection                     4/20/98
18       MEF Reviews Evaluation                  5/4/98
19       Contract Award                         5/25/98                                     Cnrc  wr       /59
20       MAFF/MEF Sign Contracts                5/26/98
21       IDAs No Objection                       6/9/98
22       Payment Arrangements                   6/16/98
23       Delivery of Goods                       7/7/98                                         elvey of Good  ~  7/7/98



The Socialist Republic of Vietnam                                                                      Annex 8
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Procurement Plan
97                 1998                  1999                 2000                  2001                  2002                  2003
ID   TaskName                    Q3   Q4 [ Ql  0Q2 I Q3  Q4   Q1   Q2 [Q3  Q4  Q1   Q2 I Q3  Q4  Q1  02 ! Q3 I Q4 I Qi I Q2   Q3  0 Q4   Q1   Q2  03
I    Civil Works                                     CIEFHLIL                                   CIEFHJL               CIEFCIK.    CIEFGIJL
___.___._.__._._.__                                                                                   Open   Bids
109  Vehicles and Equipment               CIJ)JCt.K              C.KhK                 (iKK                 C[K1-K
232   Surveys & Mapping                           CIK
249   Consultants                 ICQ T IV CK                                  C.K
Key to the Codes:
A. Survey                 F. Bidding Period        K. Award Contract
B. Design & Quantities    G. Open Bids             L. Contractor Mobilized
C. Prepare Bid Documents   H. Evaluate Bids
D. Obtain IDA Clearance    I. Prepare Bid Eval Report
E. Advertize Bid          J. Obtain IDA Clearance
0Pg1
Page I



Vietnam
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Disbursements by Semesters and Government Cash Flow
(US$ '000)
Costs to be
Financing Available    Financed  The Government
IDA  Netherlands       Project         Cumulative
Amount Amount  Total   Costs Cash Flow Cash Flow
1          -        -       - 1,508.8  -1,508.8  -1,508.8
2      700.2    446.7  1,146.8  1,508.8  -362.0  -1,870.8
3      700.2    446.7  1,146.8  4,095.1  -2,948.3  -4,819.1
4     2,246.6  1,014.8  3,261.3  4,095.1   -833.8  -5,652.9
5     2,246.6  1,014.8  3,261.3  2,116.8  1,144.5  -4,508.4
6     1,246.9    651.1  1,898.0  2,116.8  -218.7  -4,727.1
7     1,246.9    651.1  1,898.0  2,886.9  -988.9  -5,716.0
8     2,178.1    271.6  2,449.8  2,886.9  -437.2  -6,153.2
9     2,178.1    271.6  2,449.8  2,828.4  -378.6  -6,531.8
10   2,260.9     94.2  2,355.1  2,828.4  -473.3  -7,005.2
11   2,260.9     94.2  2,355.1  2,709.0  -353.9  -7,359.1
12   2,124.3    101.2  2,225.6  2,709.0  -483.4  -7,842.5
13   2,124.3    101.2  2,225.6     -  2,225.6  -5,616.9
Total  21,513.9  5,159.1 26,673.1 32,290.0  -5,616.9  -5,616.9






- 68 -
Annex 10
Page I of 4
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Project Management - Draft Terms Of Reference
Project Steering Committee (PSC)
(i)    Functions
*  Co-ordination between relevant Ministries;
*  Co-ordination between relevant Departments of MARD;
*  Co-ordination with credit institutions and national organisation of relevant commodity
development organisations;
*  Policy implementation issues affecting the Project;
*  Review of Project workplans and budget allocations and recommendation to MARD
for approval;
*  Review of monitoring reports prepared by the Project Management Unit.
(ii)    Composition
*  Vice Minister (Chairman)
*  Representative of Ministry of Planning and Investment
*  Representative of Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment
*  Representative of Committee on Ethnic Minorities and Mountainous Areas
*  State Bank of Vietnam
*  Representative of the Agriculture Bank of Vietnam
*  Director of International Co-operation Division
*  Director of Forest Development Department
*  Director of Forest Protection Department
*  Director of Agriculture and Forestry Extension Department
(iii)   Other: The PSC will meet annually to consider the Project workplan and budget request
prepared by the PMU, and as needed to address policy implementation issues. Minutes of
PSC meetings will be recorded. The secretariat to the PSC will be provided by the PMU.
Provincial Project Steering Committee (PPSC)
(i)    Functions
*  Interdepartmental co-ordination at provincial level;
*  Co-ordination with provincial credit institutions;
*  Co-ordination with regional commodity development organisations;
*  Co-ordination with District People's Committees;
*  Review  of workplans and  budget proposals prepared  by the  PPMU  and
recommendation to PSC for approval;
*  For Kon Tum, review of workplans and budget proposals prepared by the CMRMB
and recommendation to PSC for approval;
*  Review of monitoring reports prepared by the PPMU and the CMRMB (for Kon Tum).



- 69 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 4
(ii)    Composition
* Vice Chairman of the Provincial People's Committee (Chairman)
*  Vice Chairman of the relevant District People's Committees (if appropriate)
* Director of the Provincial Agriculture and Rural Development Department
* Director of the Provincial Planning and Investment Department
* Director of Land Administration
* Director of Forest Protection Branch
* Representative of the provincial branch of the Agriculture Bank
(iii)   Other: The PPSC will meet annually to consider the provincial Project workplan and
budget request, and as needed to address implementation issues.  Minutes of PPSC
meetings will be recorded. The Secretary of the PPSC will be the Director of the PPMU.
Project Management Unit (PMU)
The PMU will be created by instruction of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. An
organisation chart is given in Annex 1.
(i)    Functions of PMU
- Establish Project management and reporting systems;
- Co-ordinate and consolidating Project workplans and budget requirements for
consideration by the PSC;
e  Contract independent monitoring consultants (for impact monitoring);
*  Consolidate and prepare claims for reimbursement of World Bank funds;
* Provide secretariat support to PSC;
*  Contract foreign and national Technical Assistance for Project management;
* Undertake any procurement for which National Competitive Bidding is required.
(ii)   Staff:  Full time staff of the PMU will be seconded from the MARD department
responsible for project implementation. These staff will include:
* Project Director
* Accountant
* Clerks
The Project Director will be supported by consultants in Project Management (management
systems and project administration procedures) and Monitoring and Evaluation.
Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU)
The PPMU will be established by decision of the provincial People's Committee.
(i)    Functions
* Establish Project management and reporting capability within the PPMU;
*  Co-ordinate with district and commune People's Committees the activities of the
Commune Advisory Group (CAG) undertaking PRA  and community planning
activities in Project communes;
* Monitor the conduct and outputs of the commune planning process to ensure that these
are consistent with Project guidelines;



- 70 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
*  Consolidate Commune Action Plans prepared by the CAG and prepare annual
workplans and budget proposals for consideration by the PPSC;
*  Contract the CAG for each province (one CAG will serve both Song Be and Dak Lak
Provinces);
*  Contract with qualified organisations, using local organisations (i.e. district, commune)
where possible, to implement Project activities in the Buffer Zone;
*  Co-ordinate with administration and technical agencies at provincial and district levels,
and CMC, to ensure support to implement and maintain Project activities within the
targeted communes;
*  Monitor and report on Project implementation activities.
(ii)   Staff: Full time staff of the PPMU will be seconded from the provincial civil service. The
staff will include a Director and an accountant/bookkeeper. The number of other support staff will
depend on the amount of work to be carried out.
The PPMU Director will be assisted by consultants from PMU to establish management and
monitoring systems, and administration procedures, which are consistent with Project requirements.
PPMIJ will contract technical services needed to support implementation of Project activities in the
Buffer Zone.
Commune Working Group (CWG)
The CWG is the key institution involved in the planning, implementation and monitoring of
community development Project activities in the Buffer Zone. Its role is to ensure that all sections
of the community are fully consulted in the planning process, and that the resulting Commune
Action Plan (CAP) represents the needs and priorities of the community. In order to ensure
ownership and commitment by the community to implement the CAP and respect the conservation
agreements entered in to, it is important that subsequent approval process at District and Provincial
levels is authorised only to ensure that the Project guidelines have been followed in the planning
process. Any amendments to the CAP proposed by the District People's Committee and PPMU
should be negotiated directly with the CWG.
(i)    Functions
*  Co-ordinate with the Commune People's Committee and  its technical and
administrative staff,
*  Co-ordinate with village communities, smallholder producers and small-scale
entrepreneurs;
*  Co-ordinate with the CAG to facilitate the community planning process and
preparation of the CAP;
*  Co-ordinate with contracted agencies of the PPMU, District credit branches, and agents
of regional commodity development organisations for implementation purposes;
*  Co-ordinate with commune mass organisations which may be contracted through the
Commune People's Committee to manage Project implementation tasks;
*  Recommend eligible participants for Project activities in accordance with Project
guidelines;
*  Enter into and monitor agreements with Project beneficiaries, including village
representatives, regarding conservation and maintenance of Project investments;



- 71 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
*  Provide letters of support to credit institutions (regarding approval of activities and
acceptance of conservation agreements);
*  Provide a forum for hearing of disputes regarding land allocation;
*  Co-ordinate monitoring and evaluation functions for Project activities (involving the
delivery and use of Project goods and services);
*  Approve the Commune Action Plan for submitting to the PPMU and District People's
Committee.
(ii)    Composition
*  Five representatives of the commune - recommended by the PRA and approved by the
Commune People's Council
* Chairman of the CWG will be elected by the members of the CWG
(iii)   Others: Meetings will be held annually to co-ordinate the commune work programme and
budget request and as required to co-ordinate PRA activities and monitoring activities and
mediate on eligibility and land allocation matters. The secretary of the CWG will be the
Commune Extension Agent or other as appointed by the Commune People's Council.
Minutes will be recorded.
Members of the CWG will receive an honorarium from the Project during planning and
implementation period for the commune (approximately two years). After this period a reduced
honorarium will be paid to meet the costs of Project monitoring only.
Special consideration will be given to ethnic minorities and women's groups.



-72-
Annex 1 1
Page 1 of I
VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Project Ornanization Chart
National
MARD
Reporting                                                                                   g        
Province                                st                  002.s~~~~~~~~~~~.-roec
Provincial ~ ~ -People's   .         - - -      - -                   ...inki  . .  .                       
Coordination ~ ~   MRDNaioalNaioa
Technical responsibily                                                         I
O her  _ _    Provincial Agr. &     S s    ~~~~~Provincta                          rvwa
Agencies  1   Service                 0 l: ProjectManagement  >:___ ____.          Inttis
I                                          f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uf
CommittePeobs . . . .Iss.iou . . . .. . .    . . .. . .1
I  Committee   1- - - - - - -          r  W1        -           t~~~~C mkte
Letter of Understanding   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LterofUnestndn
s pnnervie     es   |       vCo e                                                  Natit
|CommuneServices| n   |   Extension   |   |  |  | OrGanisaOrganisaton
Commf|                                           urlComuiiet
ALgenenisdrnce
IReporting   -    |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cosruto
|PA,rzn  servires                                        ommu    erv



- 73 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of I
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Summary of Estimated Technical Assistance Requirements
Position/Service                       Responsible         Person
Organisation        months
Foreign
Project Management
Project Management Adviser                               PMU                 36
Financial Adviser                                        PMU                  7
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist                     PMU                  9
Protected Area
Protected Area Management Specialist                     PMU                 40
Wildlife Biologist / Biodiversity Monitoring             PMU                  3
Wildlife Veterinary                                      PMU                  1
Ecotourism Specialist                                    PMU                  5
Anthropologist - Indigenous Conservation Spec.           PMU                  2
Buffer Zone Development
Community Development Specialist                         PMU                 24
Forestry Restructuring Specialist                        PMU                  2
Forest Management Planning Adviser                       PMU                  5
Agro-forestry Development Adviser                        PMU                  6
Irrigation Engineer                                      PMU                  3
Farming Systems Adviser                                  PMU                  6
Total Foreign Technical Assistance                                 149
National
Project Management
Monitoring Team                                          MARD                65
Protected Area
CMRNR Management Planning Team                           CMRMB               40
Visitor Facility Designer                                CMRMB                2
Boundary Survey Team                                     CMRMB               12
Ecotourism Specialist                                    CMRMB                5
Public Awareness Action Plan                             CMRMB                6
Rapid Ecological Assessment                              CMRMB                6
Museum Adviser                                           CMRMB                I
Librarian Adviser                                        CMRMB                I
Indigenous Cultural/Historical Adviser                   CMRMB                6
Buffer Zone Development
Commune Advisory Group                                   PPMU                84
Land Allocation Adviser                                  PMU                 18
Forestry Restructuring Specialist                        PMU                  2
Forest Management Specialist                             PMU                  5
Agro-forestry Development Specialist                     PMU                 18
Farming Systems Specialist                               PMU                  6
Community Development Specialist                         PMU                 24
Irrigation Engineer                                      PMU                 10
Education and Information Specialist                     PMU                  2
Total National Technical Assistance                                313



- 74 -
Annex 13
Page I of 3
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Summary Project Implementation Schedule and Outline of Proiect Implementation Manual
Component/Activity              Respon-                                     Project Year
sible
Agency       Pre-
ectroe       1          2           3           4           5           6
Blodiversity Protection
Revise Management Plan for     CMRMB
CMRNR and Expansion Area
Boundary demarcation          CMRMB                _
Research and Monitoring        CMRMB               -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Public Awareness Action Plan   CMRMB                           _ ___                 . ___ _                    .      -
MobileEducation Unnt           CMRMB                              -  -  -  -  -  -  -        --              _ _ _
Construction CMRNR headquarters CMRMB
Upgrade trails                 CMRMB                     _
Road rehabilitation            CMRMB
Ecotourism Management Plan     CMRMB                                       _
Staff training                 CMRMB
Marketing Plan                 CMRMB
Establish guiding service      CMRMB
Village tourism training       CMRMB                                                     - -       -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Buffer Zone Development
Communiy Development
Contract Commune Advisory      PMU/
GrouRs                         PPMU                        _
PRA surveys & Commune planning PPMU/
Appointment of Commune         Com. PC/
Management Committees
Land allocation                DLAC
Implement Commune Action Plans PPMU/
Social Support Activities    _     CMC
Upgrade rural development support PPMU                                              -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
services
Agro-forestry promotion        PARDS
Buffer Zone Forest Management
Demarcate Inner Forest Buffer  Prov. FPD
Zone
Allocate Inner Forest Buffer Zone   CMC/
Prov. FPD                      I__     _
Demarcate Forest Enterprise    Prov. FPD
boundarvy            =,,.=_              I
Forest Enterprise Restructuring -   PPMU/
Pilot Study                    SFE
Rural lnfrastrcture DeveloPment
Design & contract upgrading of    PPMU
access roads CMRNR & CTNP    CMRNR           _
Upgrade access roads to CMRNR  PPMU
& CTNP
Review & prioritize irrigation  PPMU
schemes
Construct/upgrade prioriy irrigation PPMU
svstems
Review & prioritize rural roads  PPMU                                        _
Upgrade priorty rural roads    PPMU                                                        -
Maintain roads & irrigation systems PPMU                                                      _
Project Management Component
Establish PMU/PPMU offices     MARD/
Prov,PC_
Prepare Annual Workplan        PMU                   _. .    .. ..
Recruit consuitants            PMU                . _
Monitoring & Audit            I                   I                      ._...
MARD        Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development     CAG         Commune Advisory Group
PMU         Project Management Unit                            PARDS      Provincial Agriculture & Rural Development Service
PPMU        Provincial Project Mangement Unit                  Prov. FPD   Provincial Forest Protection Department
Prov. PC    Provincial People's Committee                      CMC        Commune Management Committee
Com. PC    Commune People's Committee



- 75 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 3
Project Implementation Manual Outline
1.    The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) is a follow-up document to the SAR which
will serve as a detailed guide for day-to-day implementation and management of the project.
The PIM contains detailed implementation arrangements and schedule for each project activity,
and terms of reference for technical assistance.
I1.  Project Background
a. Objectives
b. Rationale
c. Project Area
2.   Project Management / Institutional Strengthening
a. Implementation Concept
b. Implementing Agencies
c. Supervision and Review
d. Arrangements
e. Coordination with Cat Tien National Park Conservation Project
f. Flow of Funds
3.   Protected Area Management
a. Objectives
b. Activities to be supported
c. Implementation Arrangements
4.   Buffer Zone Development
a. Objectives
b. Subcomponent Descriptions and Implementation
4.1 Community Planning Subcomponent
a. Objectives
b. Activities to be supported
c. Implementation Arrangements
4.2 Land Allocation Subcomponent
a. Objectives
b. Activities to be supported
c. Implementation Arrangements
4.3 Social Support Program
a. Objectives
b. Activities to be supported
b. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.4 Forest Management Subcomponent
a. Objectives
b. Activities to be supported
4.5 Agricultural Support Services Component
a. Goals and Objectives
b. Activities to be Supported
c. Monitoring and Evaluation



- 76 -
Annex 13
Page3 of3
4.6 Rural Infrastructure Component
a. Irrigation
i. Introduction and Objectives
ii. Scope of Investment to be supported
iii. Monitoring and Evaluation
b. Roads
i. Introduction and Objectives
ii. Scope of Investment to be supported
iii. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.    Other Project Documents
a. Ethnic Minorities Development plan
b. Resettlement Policy Framework






- 77 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Bank Supervision Plan
Approximate       Duration               Skills                Activities - Major Focus
Date           (weeks)
1/1998                 4         - Task Manager             Project Launch Workshop (to
- Procurement Specialist   clarify project
- Disbursement Specialist    objectives/requirement
Review PSC/PPSC/PMU/PPMU
establishment
Review 1 st year procurement plan
5/1998                 8         - Task Manager             Review initial project arrangements
- Sociologist/Anthropologist  such as status of project consultants
- Procurement specialist  recruitment; procurement; and
- Financial/Accountant     development of interim work plan
Field visits to participating
provinces
11/1998                10        - Task Manager             Review field implementation
- Sociologist/Community    including revised PA Management
Development              Plan and planned infrastructure;
- Protected Areas Planner  Community Development Planning
- Agriculture Economist    process;
- M&E and land use         TA performance;
planning specialist      draft annual work and financing
plan; and draft M&E system
05/1999                6         - Task Manager             Review implementation including
- Sociologist/Community    identification of village
Development              investments, and ex-post review
- Agriculture Economist/
Extension Specialist
- Procurement Specialist
11/1999                6         - Task Manager             Review general implementation
- Sociologist/Community    including SFE study &
Development/Institutions    recommendations and draft annual
- Forester                 work & financing plan
05/2000                6         - Task Manager             Review rural infrastructure
- Rural Infra. Engineer    proposals; M&E work; SSG
- M&E specialist           implementation
- Procurement Specialist
03/2001                10        - Task Manager             Mid-Term Review to review all
- Agricultural Economist   aspects of the project and agree on
- Rural Sociologist        adjustments needed
- Protected Areas Manager
11/2001                4         - Task Manager             Review annual work and financing
- Rural Sociologist        plan



- 78 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
Approximate        Duration                Skills                 Activities - Major Focus
Date           (weeks)
05/2002                 4         - Task Manager               Review implementation
- Ag. Economist
11/2002                 4         - Task Manager              Review annual work and financing
Rural Sociologist         plan and monitoring activities
05/2003                 3         - Task Manager               Review implementation schedule
- Economist                 and phase out plan
11/200                  3         - Task Manager              Discuss project evaluation (ICR)
- Economist
Supervision Requirements by IDA FY
(Ssws
IDA FY       1998        1999        2000        2001        2002        2003      TOTAL
Field Bank     12          12          12          14           8           6          64
4           4           4           4           4           4          24
Total SW       16          16          16          18          12           10          88



- 79 -
Annex 15
Page 1 of 5
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Economic and Financial Analysis of Project Components
1.     The main objective of this project is the protection of natural forest with high
concentrations of biodiversity. However, there are no generally accepted ways of quantifying the
value of biodiversity. Since qualitative benefits from the preservation of the ecosystem have
been discussed in the main text, this annex will focus on the estimation of quantifiable returns to
project investments for the Buffer Zone Development Component.
Economic Analysis
2.     Buffer Zone Investments. Because benefits are interdependent, the economic rate of
return for the buffer zone component is calculated on an aggregated basis -- combining the
investment costs for roads witlh irrigation investments and with the cost of adopting the more
remunerative "technology packages". Table I presents, for the five project areas combined, an
aggregated economic analysis of investments in: (a) agriculture -- which includes staple food
grains, agro-forestry, cash crop production (including tree crops like rubber and coffee) and
livestock; and (b) irrigation infrastructure and road construction. The economic returns for the
combined investments is 13 percent as given below.
Table 1: Economic Analysis for Combined Project Investments (Base Case)
YEAR:          1   2    3    4    5   6    7    8   9   10  11   12  etc. 50
Incremental Costs                                   (in billion Dong)
Agric. Investments  0.0   0.0  2.7  3.7  3.6  1.1  1.2  1.2  0.8  0.1  0.0  0.0    . 0.0
Irrig. Investments  0.0   3.5 12.6  14.9  5.6  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    . 0.0
Road Investments  0.0  15.3  13.1  14.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    . 0.0
RecurrentCosts    0.0  -0.5  3.6  6.1  6.6  7.2  9.7  13.2 14.6 16.1 16.5 16.6    . 16.6
Total Increm. Costs  0.0  18.3 32.1  39.1  15.8  8.3 10.9  14.4 15.4 16.2 16.5 16.6    . 16.6
Incremental Benefits
Direct Beneficiaries 0.0  -5.7  1.9  8.4  6.7  8.4 13.2  19.6 22.6 25.5 27.0 27.3    . 27.2
Other Beneficiaries  0.0   0.0  2.0  4.1  6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1    . 6.1
Total lncrem. Benefits 0.0  -5.7  4.0  12.5  12.8 14.6 19.3  25.8 28.8 31.7 33.1 33.4    . 33.4
Net Benefits (dir.B.)  0.0  -24.1 -30.2 -30.7  -9.1  0.1  2.3  5.2  7.2  9.3 10.4 10.7    . 10.6
NetBenefits(allB.)   0.0  -24.1 -28.1 -26.6  -2.9  6.2  8.5  11.4 13.4 15.5 16.6 16.8    . 16.8
ERR-Direct Benefic.  8%
ERR-All Beneficiaries 13%
This number includes the benefits due to increased economic activity outside the buffer zone
communes (e.g., from inter-commune roads and irrigation investment command areas outside
the buffer communes). These non-buffer beneficiary households are estimated to account for 45



- 80 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 5
percent of the total households in the five project areas. We have conservatively assessed the
benefits for these 'other beneficiaries' to be VND 100,000 per household per annumi (around
US$ 9). Leaving out these benefits, would give an economic rate of return (ERR) of 8 percent.
3.     The numbers and detailed assumptions underlying Table 1 are given in the Project
Preparation Study.  The computation of output values is based on relatively conservative
assumptions of production and farm level prices. The improved output values are mainly
derived from yield and cropping density improvement from the adoption of new technologies as
a result of improved credit extension support and from irrigation. Incremental benefits and costs
are based on a 'future without' scenario that assumes a small gradual deterioration of main
agricultural production without project interventions--reflecting the degradation pressures faced
in these areas.  Incremental recurrent costs are mainly additional imputed farm  labor and
agricultural inputs, as well as some road maintenance.
4.     Agricultural benefits are derived from individual enterprise and household models based
on cropping systems before (without) and after (with) project interventions. The cropping
systems chosen for the models are assumed to be the "appropriate choice" (with respect to
farming and household resource conditions) from a range of possibilities which would be
selected through the Commune Action Planning (CAP) process. They include economic
activities, such as commercial food crop (including upland maize production), rubber and coffee
production.  Most of these activities that will be promoted under the project will have high
financial rates of return (well above 20 percent) as a number of the technology packages to be
adopted do not need high capital investment. They are calculated from the financial return
models (see paras 7-10 below) with adjustments for net taxes on the input and capital costs and
are based on the shadow pricing of labor at the market unskilled labor rate. The specific
packages selected depend on the preferences of the communes and the "appropriateness" as
determined under the CAP process. For irrigation, the benefits for wlich can be analyzed
separately, the capital investment in irrigation infrastructure (excluding O&M costs after the first
year of production) in the five sub project areas is estimated at D34 billion (US$ 3 million). The
benefits that can be directly attributed to irrigation (including coffee production) in the five
project areas will generate an economic rate of return estimated at 1.5 percent.
5.     Sensitivity Analysis   The two main risks for the buffer zone investments, selected for
sensitivity analysis are: (a) benefits will be slower in emerging than originally expected; and (b)
actual benefits from the investments will be less than projected. Item (a) is presented below
based on the calculations showing a delay in benefits by one year, that could be due to initial
problems with the introduction of new farming systems. This will reduce thle economic rate of
return to 9 percent.
The Project Preparation Report used a range of D. 275,000 - 325,000. Although an argument can be
made that even these estimates are conservative because the households outside the buffer commune
areas tend to be more commercializable , we have assumed a figure of only one third of these
estimates to be conservative.



- 81 -
Annex 15
Page 3 of 5
Table 2: Economic Analysis for Combined Project Investments (Slower Returns)
YEAR           1   2    3    4    5    6   7   8   9   10  11  12 etc. 50
Incremental Costs                                    (in billion Bong)
Agric. lnvestments  0.0  0.0  2.7  3.7  3.6  1.1  1.2  1.2  0.8  0.1  0.0  0.0   . 0.0
Irrig. Investments   0.0  3.5  12.6  14.9  5.6  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   . 0.0
Road Investments   0.0  15.3  13.1  14.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   . 0.0
RecurrentCosts     0.0  -0.5  3.6  6.1   6.6  7.2  9.7 13.2 14.6 16.1 16.5 16.6   . 16.6
Total Increm. Costs   0.0  18.3  32.1  39.1  15.8  8.3 10.9 14.4 15.4 16.2 16.5 16.6   . 16.6
Incremental Benefits
Direct Beneficiaries  0.0  0.0  -5.7   1.9  8.4  6.7  8.4 13.2 19.6 22.6 25.5 27.0   . 27.2
Other Beneficiaries   0.0  0.0  0.0  2.0  4.1  6.1  6.1  6.1 6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1   . 6.1
Totallncrem.Benefits 0.0  0.0  0.0  -5.7  4.0  12.5 12.8 14.6 19.3 25.8 28.8 31.7   . 33.4
Net Benefits (dir.B.)  0.0 -18.3 -37.9 -37.2  -7.3  -1.6 -2.4 -1.2  4.2  6.4  9.0 10.4   . 10.6
Net Benefits (all B.)   0.0 -18.3 -32.1 -44.8 -11.8  4.2  2.0  0.1  3.9  9.6 12.2 15.1   . 16.8
ERR-Direct Benefic.  7%
ERR-All Beneficiaries 9%
Item (b) could reflect a situation where actual benefits could also be less than projected due to,
for example, marketing problems for crops produced. A 10 percent reduction in production
value is expected to lower the economic rate of return to 6 percent (Table 3).
Table 3: Economic Analysis for Combined Project Investments (Lower Returns)
YEAR            1    2   3    4    5   6   7    8   9   10 11   12 etc. 50
Incremental Costs                                    (in billion Dong)
Agric. Investments    0.0  0.0  2.7  3.7  3.6  1.1 1.2  1.2  0.8  0.1  0.0  0.0  ... 0.0
Irrig. Investments   0.0  3.5  12.6 14.9  5.6 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  ... 0.0
Road Investments     0.0  15.3  13.1 14.4  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  ... 0.0
Recurrent Costs      0.0  -0.5  3.6  6.1  6.6  7.2 9.7 13.2 14.6 16.1 16.5 16.6  ... 16.6
Total Increm. Costs     0.0  18.3  32.1 39.1  15.8 8.3 10.9 14.4 15.4 16.2 16.5 16.6  ... 16.6
Incremental Benefits
Direct Beneficiaries    0.0  -5.2  1.7  7.6  6.0  7.6 11.9 17.7 20.4 23.0 24.3 24.6  ... 24.5
Other Beneficiaries   0.0  -2.9  -1.1  0.7  0.3  0.3 0.3  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  ... 0.4
Total lncrem. Benefits   0.0  -8.0  0.6  8.3  6.3  7.8 12.2 18.1 20.8 23.4 24.7 25.0  ... 24.9
Net Benefits (dir.B.)   0.0 -23.5 -30.4 -31.5 -9.7 -0.7 1.0  3.2  5.0  6.8  7.7  8.0  ... 7.9
Net Benefits (all B.)   0.0 -26.4 -31.5 -30.8 -9.5 -0.5 1.3  3.7  5.4  7.2  8.2  8.4  ... 8.3
ERR-Direct Benefic.     6%
ERR-All Beneficiaries   6%



- 82 -
Annex 15
Page 4 of 5
However, if benefits are less than expected because of lower output prices, input prices are
likely to be lower as well. In such a scenario, for item (b), the actual economic rates of return
will remain at about 9 percent.
6.     Costs and Benefits Excluded from the Calculations.  The analysis above focuses on
direct costs due to buffer zone interventions. Additional project costs such as technical assistance
for land allocation, and social and technical support services are not included in the economic
analysis. If these were to be added, the economic rate of return would drop, although these costs
are relatively minor. Also excluded from the ERR calculations are those costs incurred through
project management. To include these would require the attribution of project overheads
between forest management and buffer zone development--an exercise that is considered to be
quite arbitrary and is therefore not attempted. Some benefits are also excluded. First, forest
protection and the promotion of more sustainable land use practices will enhance water retention,
decrease sedimentation, and generally benefit downstream water users. Furtherrnore, in the
project area, the additional income created are expected to have a multiplier effect in reducing
the current level of unemployment or underemployment. Inclusion of these benefits would
likely increase the ERR significantly.
Financial Analysis
7.     Financial Benefits. For a project which counts on improving the income and livelihood
status of buffer households to secure their joint cooperation in forest protection, the financial
rates of return for these households will have to be high enough to motivate active participation.
For subsistence or food staple crops, the incremental financial returns to the family labor effort
is an important indicator of such an incentive. The improved technologies to be introduced (for
various systems of paddy production and for maize and mungbeans) will improve the returns per
labor day from levels close to the market unskilled wage rate (about VND 11,000- 12,000/day) in
the "without project" case to levels ranging from VND 12,000-27,000/day in the "with project"
case, as summarized below:
Food Staple Crop             Without Project               With Project
VND/Labor Day
Summer wetland paddy (new)                                          27,241
Autumn wetland paddy (new)               -                          22,574
Uplanid paddy                         10,556                        20,617
Shifting (Swidden) paddy               5,106                         7,938
Upland maize                          13,178                         17,893
Upland mungbeans                      10,910                         12,256
Except for rice (paddy) under shifting cultivation (usually involving ethnic minority households),
the imputed net income per labor day (i.e., opportunity cost for family labor) is roughly
equivalent to the market wage for unskilled labor (assuming that jobs are available). Under the
project, at full development, the returns to labor will be significantly higher than the market
wage rate, except possibly for mungbeans grown under rainfed conditions.
8.     For cash crops, incremental financial returns would essentially vary according to the
types of buffer zone households, their farm endowment and location, and the market
opportunities. In accessible areas with relatively good basaltic soils in the CTNP buffer zone



- 83 -
Annex 15
Page 5 of 5
(especially parts of Lam Dong and Dong Nai provinces), credit availability (from VBA&RD or a
community revolving fund) together with project assistance in organizing farmers (through the
development of the Commune Action Plan), could enable households to achieve incremental
financial rates of return (FRRs) ranging from 20 to 75 percent (supporting tables are in the
project file). This would be applicable to the rainfed farming of annual crops (ranging from
improved rice, maize, mulberry or sericulture) and livestock, as well as to the introduction of
irrigation to permit the cultivation of high yielding variety rice, hybrid maize, and coffee. In less
well endowed farms facing less favorable market access, extension service and subsistence credit
assistance could help farmers through critical cash-short months and thus enable them to at least
grow enough food (i.e., upland rice and maize) for family subsistence as a prelude to introducing
the production of high value cash crops..
9.    In the generally less accessible CMRNR buffer zone, where extensive barren land exists,
an extension package which includes the planting of multi-purpose fodder trees (to permit
farmers to harvest leaves for livestock feeding in the dry season) would significantly improve
livestock productivity and farm income. In some areas close to rubber plantations or sugar mills,
opportunities exist for the introduction of raw material cash crops like rubber and sugar, the FRR
of which are approximately 14 percent and 20 percent respectively. In some degraded forest
areas, agroforestry (with a FRR of about 13 percent) may be an option. For the many poor (and
often hungry) households in the less accessible forested buffer areas, employment opportunities
provided under the forest protection contracts (to manage and protect allocated parcels of
protection forests) may be the only source of cash income for these labor surplus, high poverty
areas. In any case, the raising of buffer zone incomes would mean that buffer lhouseholds would
be more responsive to public awareness or extension programs and hence be more receptive to a
change in the lifestyle that accepts greater responsibility for maintenance of the natural
resources.
10.   Irrigation infrastructure is the only sub-component where separate production benefits
may be imputed. The FRRs are summarized below for the main buffer zone project areas.
Irrigation development is expected to reach about 2,000 families (about 11,000 people) in the
buffer zones.
Irrigation Investments             Households benefited            FRR(%)
Cat Tian National Park
Dong Nai                               83                       25
Lam Dong                              980                       19
Bin Phuoc                             160                       ]I
Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve
Kon Tum                               495                       16
TOTAL                          1718                        18
It should be noted that the rehabilitation of selected rural roads would increase the efficiency in
the delivery of both productive and social support service to project communes and would
enhance economic development. Thus, not only will the production of both food crops and
industrial crops be improved, but so will year-round food security.






- 84 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of3
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Summary of Environmental Review
I.    The project was subject of an Environmental Review carried out by the Environmental
Protection Center (EPC), which is part of the Vietnam Institute of Tropical Technology and
Environmental Protection under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment. The purpose
of the Review was two-fold: (a) to consider the potential environmental impacts of activities and
developments to be supported under the project; and,  (b) to identify any existing or planned
developments in the vicinity of the project areas having the potential to adversely affect the
sustainability or effectiveness of the project. The review was based on initial drafts of the project
preparation documents, project site inspections and discussions with relevant National, Provincial and
District Government agencies.
Potential Environmental Impacts of Project Activities
2.     The Project was assessed as having generally positive environmental impacts through activities
designed to improve protection and management of natural resources. However, three aspects of the
project were identified as having some potential adverse environmental impact potential: (a) the Chu
Mom Ray Nature Reserve (CMRNR) infrastructure development program; (b) small-scale irrigation
developments; and, (c) rural road developments. These were subject to additional consideration.
(a) CMRNR Infrastructure Development Program. The potential direct impacts were found to be
minor and connected solely with the construction phase. The main risks are minor soil erosion,
minor drainage impairment and hydrological impacts associated with inappropriate disposal of
excavated materials and excess concrete associated with fords and culverts. All of these impacts
canl be adequately controlled by inclusion of suitable provisions in the contract specifications
(such specifications have been formulated in the Project Implementation Manual) combined with
effective construction supervision to ensure that the specifications are observed. Potential
indirect impacts could also arise due to the improved access into the Parks and Nature Reserves
for landless people, hunters and poachers provided by the upgraded roads although it was
conceded that this had to be balanced against the benefits that improved access would provide to
management and staff of the Park. The balance was assessed as favoring upgraded access.
lIncursionis and illegal exploitation are already occurring, even withi very poor access. The
improved access may make things marginally easier for encroachers but it will much more
significantly improve the capacity of forest rangers to detect and control these encroachments;
(b) Upgrading of rural roads. Direct environmental impact potentials arise during the construction
phase due to soil erosion, drainage impairment and inadequate disposal of excavated materials.
Similar to the CMRNR infrastructure improvement, these issues will be addressed through the
inclusion of suitable specifications in the contract documents and adequate construction
supervision. Potential indirect impacts could arise due to increased encroachment resulting from
development of new roads in the project areas. The recommended solution to this problem is
exclude new road developments from funding eligibility under the project. Only rehabilitation
of existing roads will be financed under the project;



- 85 -
Annex 16
Page 2 of 3
(c) Irrigation Sub-projects. Potential adverse impacts include: waterlogging of soils; increased
incidence of water-borne and water-related diseases; increases in the incidence of agricultural
pests and diseases resulting from the elimination of dry season die-back and the creation of a
more humid microclimate; increased pollution of surface and groundwater from fertilizers and
agricultural biocides; and, adverse water quality and biological impacts due to in-stream
activities such as weir/dam construction or rehabilitation, river bank rehiforcement and bridge,
ford or culvert construction.
The significance of these potential impacts is directly proportional to the at-ea of irrigable land to
be developed, the nature of the existing land use in the areas to be developed and the nature of the
irrigation offtake (i.e. weir or reservoir). By these criteria, the impact potentials of the proposed
developments are very small.  Approximately half of the area to be developed will be
rehabilitation of existing small schemes. The maximum incremental increase in irrigable area is
only about 280 ha; all areas are already being cropped so there will be no significant change in
land use; and no new weirs or reservoirs will be constructed.
New irrigation developments will all be less than 400 ha in area and most of the offtakes are weirs
having limited downstream impact potential. Four (Dak Can, Da Lay, Dak Lan and Dak Kar)
involve on-stream storage but the diversion levels will be very small (e.g. for the largest of these
four schemes, the peak water demand is likely to be in the order of 0.24 cumecs). All schemes are
significantly less than 2,500 ha in area which is a guideline used by several environmental
agencies in the Asia region for determining whether or not an environmenital impact assessment is
required. As an additional level of protection, the Project Implementationi Manual includes a pro-
forma Initial Environmental Screeninig report to provide a basis for determininig the acceptability
of new irrigation developments.
Potential Impacts of Activities in Surrounding Areas on the Project
3.     Wide-ranging investigations and consultations with Provincial and local government officials
identified three major external developments having potential to impact on the project: (a) tree crop
developments in the Central Highlands; (b) water resources developments in the Dong Nai River Basin;
and, (c) forest management activities by State-owned Forestry companies.
(a) Tree Crop Developments in the Central Highlands. In recent years, substantial areas of
"barren lands" in the Central Highlands have been converted from grassland to tree crops,
mainly coffee. Additional tree crop developments are likely to occur in the future although
alternative crops such as rubber and horticultural crops, may be favored over coffee. Provided
these developments are confinied to areas outside Nature Reserves- and are restricted to true
barren lands (i.e. areas which have already been cleared or otherwise degraded) they should
present no significanit threat to the project development areas or to nature conservation values in
genieral. In fact, these developments should support the objectives of the project insofar as they
will help increase rural incomes and alleviate poverty, permit productive use of the barren lands
and reduce the pressure to clear new lands including land inside Nature Reserves and State
Forests. It is in recognitioni of the potential social and economic benefits of such crops that the
Agricultural Support Services sub-component will include extension and demonstration of tree
crops such as rubber.  Nevertheless, there remains a residual albeit small risk of a land
development boom in the Central Highlanids region which could adversely affect nature reserves
and forested areas and contlict with the objectives of the project. The project includes a forest



- 86 -
Annex 16
Page 3 of 3
management sub-component which provides for increased forest protection through Forest
Protection contracts between households and the Provincial Forest Protection Branch.  If
successful, these should provide quite a strong level of protection against external land
conversion pressures.
(b) Water resources development opportunities in the Dong Nai River Basin. Development
opportunities in the Dong Nai River Basin have recently been the subject of a major river basin
management plan funded by the Japanese International Cooperation Agency. The major direct
threat to the project areas related to plans to establish multi-purpose darn developments in the
immediate vicinity of the Nam Cat Tien - Cat Loc area which would have resulted in inundation
of parts of Cat Tien National Park. However, the management plan recommended that these
developments should not proceed due to their adverse environmental impact potentials and poor
economic rates of return. The Dai Ninh hydropower development, well upstream of Cat Tien, is
due to commence construction within the next two years but, based on the eiivironmental impact
study for that development, it should have no significant impact on the environment in the
vicinity of Nam Cat Tien - Cat Loc.
(c) Forest Management Operations by State Forest Enterprises. These were subject of a
technical evaluation study as part of project preparation. The study noted that continuation of
present unsustainable cutting of natural forests under jurisdiction of the State Forest enterprises
represents an important threat to forest protection efforts in the project area, particularly the Nam
Cat Tien - Cat Loc area. The study predicted that, in 20 to 30 years, the Nam Cat Tien and Cat
Loc forests are likely to be the only natural forests of any consequence left in the southern part of
Vietnam. The forest management and joint forest protection activities being supported under the
project are clearly important to maintaining these resources in the long term however, but the
study also recommended additional protection could be provided if forest plantation
establishment on degraded forest lands was promoted to provide long term timber supplies
alternative to the remnants contained in the national parks and nature reserves. Support for such
investments is beyond the scope of the proposed project but a contribution will be made to this
longer term objective by supporting pilot activities to restructure a small number of adjoining
State Forest Enterprises. If these enterprises can be placed on a more financially sustainable
footing, the incentive to more rationally manage forest resources in their reserve areas will be
significantly increased.






- 87 -
Annex 17
Page 1 of I
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Forest Protection and Rural Development Project
Selected Documents Available in Project File
1.     Working papers by ANZDEC Ltd. consultants, August 1996
A.    Protected Area Planning
B.    Social Issues
C.    Ethnic Minorities Strategies
D.    Forest Management & Development Issues
E.     Farming Systems
F.     The Economy
G.    Small, Medium Scale Business Assistance
H.    Tourism Development
1.     Planning Issues
2.    Indicative Development Plan - Dak Lua
Indicative Development Plan - Mo Ray
3.     Biodiversity Action Plan for Vietnam, November 1994.
4.     Cat Tien National Park Conservation Project, January 1995.
5.     Environmental Review by Environmental Protection Center, HCMC, August 1996.
6.     Project Implementation Manual.
7.     Farm Models for Economic/Financial Analysis






MAP SECTION



I



188D 28680
0:24                    '2~~~~~~~~~~~~0*            SOlOTAl A AA                iF                                 10713'                                107 30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1711 '~V     17-0
K...                                          ~~~~~~~FOREST PROTECTION AND
\    DakSu                               ~~~~~~~RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                               DA(A
LAO  P.D. R.                                       PIelF.OO.....0NC
Kan                                          ORG1IES. ODOEAS
*"" ..                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 3OCtE3 TOWINS....                                                                      Dk
MAAN ROADS
o,-Hoi                RDVERo
- 2/1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I P                                                                                                                                  14
I                      -  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROV NOEBO JNDARTES2
-                             ~~~~~~~~~~~NT1RI,AONIAL R0IJIAPE0                                                                                     31
CAMBODIA                ti';i "                                                                                                                                                             29
-             So NhoKr         N    TUMV
(xQ~~~~~ot0Xm~~~~s                                                     SONG BE2,
- r.N00~4..                         Nghia                                                                     (          AY-CAT  IM
I   ...y          ,       I  4~~                                3        Dong PhuJ
A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
2~~                                                        ChuMooRoyl ROt T~0 1N241       19'                 vrnhSa Bin
(                       A                                    1115
1     /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D 
(.                                                         --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c. mCu-                                                                                                   
CAMBODI          394'~~~~~~ , 1134""  -1                                                                                               
)                                                                                                                         Reservoir                 44 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IIV')AliCOMMUNES
I. D,,gN,,,  17. H-, qbo
D- MooFOl   1 8. AP Nh-
GIA LAI
Nl/I* 41k49N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<                                   6~~~ .N SH.o o  220. Fu My'
0  3  23    13                                                                                                            S. To Lo,     24. 04% NO,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_~ 1 . l
10:                                                                                                   I                         101                107 13'         74% ~0 5    0    5             ph W,26  Phi    C.,    14 I









IMAGING
Report No.:         18569   VN
Type:      SAR



