                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank


                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                             Report No: ICR0000175




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (IDA-29960, NETH-21604)

                                           ON A CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.9 MILLION
                               (US$21.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           AND A GRANT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION

                                                TO THE

                             SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                               FOR THE

          FOREST PROTECTION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                            March 7, 2007




Rural Development, Natural Resources and Environment Sector Unit
Vietnam Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region



  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
  their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March 7, 2007)

                             Currency Unit = Dong (VND)

                                 VND 1.00 = US$0.00006

                                   US$1.00 = VND 16,008



                                   FISCAL YEAR

                               January 1 ­ December 31



                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB    Asian Development Bank
CAG    Commune Advisory Group
CAP   Commune Action Plan
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CDD    Community-Driven Development
CMRNR Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve
CPRGS Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
CTNP  Cat Tien National Park
CTNPCP Cat Tien National Park Conservation Project
CWG    Commune Working Group
DEC   District Extension Center
DWG    District Working Group
EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMDP  Ethnic Minorities Development Plan
FPD   Forest Protection Department
ICDP   Integrated Conservation Development Project
IDA    International Development Association
LURC   Land Use Right Certificate
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MARD   Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MOF   Ministry of Finance
MPI   Ministry of Planning and Investment
NGO   Non-governmental Organization
NSEP  National Strategy for Environmental Protection
PA    Protected Area
PDO   Project Development Objective
PMU   Project Management Unit
PPC   Provincial People's Committee
PPMU  Provincial Project Management Unit
PRA   Participatory Rural Appraisal
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
RAP   Resettlement Action Plan

SDR      Special Drawing Right
SEDP     Socio-economic Development Planning
SFE      State Forest Enterprises
SSP      Social Support Program
VBARD    Vietnam Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development
VNNEAP Vietnam National Environmental Action Plan




Vice President:                 James M. Adams
Country Director (Acting):     Laurent Msellati
Sector Manager:                Hoonae Kim
Project Team Leader:           Susan S. Shen
ICR Team Leader:               Binh Thang Cao

                                                VIETNAM

                  Forest Protection and Rural Development Project


                  Implementation Completion and Results Report




                                              CONTENTS


Data Sheet:
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in Implementation Status and Results Reports
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design......................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes......................................................... 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .................................................................................................... 16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................................... 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance................................................................ 20
6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................. 21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners..................... 22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.................................................................................... 24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component............................................................................................ 25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................... 30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes....................... 36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ..................................................................................... 38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................................. 39
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............................... 40
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders................................ 50
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................. 51

Map

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Forest Protection and
Country:                Vietnam                 Project Name:
                                                                       Rural Development
                                                                       IDA-29960,NETH-
Project ID:             P004839                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       21604
ICR Date:               03/10/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       VIETNAM
Original Total
                        XDR 15.9M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 13.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Government of Netherlands


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/01/1995    Effectiveness:         02/09/1998         02/09/1998
Appraisal:             04/10/1997    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              10/30/1997    Mid-term Review:                          11/19/2001
                                     Closing:               06/30/2004         06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                 Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                  55                 40
Other social services                                             17                 35
Roads and highways                                                24                 22
Sub-national government administration                             4                  3


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Biodiversity                                                     Primary          Primary
Export development and competitiveness                          Secondary         Secondary
Land administration and management                               Primary          Primary
Other rural development                                         Secondary         Primary
Participation and civic engagement                              Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           James M. Adams                      Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:         Laurent Msellati                    Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:           Hoonae Kim                          Geoffrey B. Fox
Project Team Leader:      Susan S. Shen                       Susan S. Shen
ICR Team Leader:          Binh Thang Cao
ICR Primary Author:       Binh Thang Cao



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project was designed to assist the government to protect and manage natural forests
with high levels of bio-diversity. To contribute to the achievement of this goal, the



                                                ii

project had four development objectives: (a) the protection of the Cat Tien National Park
(CTNP) and the protection and management of the Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve
(CMRNR); (b) the management of natural forests outside the Protected Areas (PAs) but
inside the buffer zones of the CTNP and the CMRNR; (c) the development of the
livelihoods of the residents in the buffer zones to reduce their dependency on the CTNP
and the CMRNR for subsistence and cash incomes; and (d) the strengthening of
government capacity to design, implement and monitor Integrated Conservation and
Development Projects (ICDPs)

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There were no changes made to the PDOs or the Key Indicators during project
implementation.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Reduced incidence of: (i) illegal harvesting and transport of protected area forest
                products; and (ii) unwarranted fire.
                                           (i) Illegal
                                           harvesting and                     Violations in 2005
Value           In 1998, 250-300           transport of PA                    in CTNP were 239
quantitative or violation cases were       forest products to                 cases and in
Qualitative)    reported in CTNP and 25- approach zero, and
                30 cases in CMRNR          (ii) unwarranted                   CMRNR were 6

                                           fire incidence                     cases

                                           reduced by 50%.
Date achieved 02/09/1998                   06/30/2004                         12/31/2005
Comments        Violations were falling but were still widespread. The severity and scale of
(incl. %        violations has decreased significantly. The levels of forest violations were
achievement)    reported to be low compared to outside the project area.

Indicator 2 :   Increase of forest cover and decrease in barren land in the buffer zones of
                CMRNP and CTNP.
                                                                              In 2004, the forest
                                                                              cover of the buffer
                In 1998, the forest cover Increase of forest                  zone of CMRNP
Value           of the buffer zone of      cover by 10% (i.e.                 was reported to be
quantitative or CMRNP was reported to by 13,000 ha in                         190,778 ha (a 30%
Qualitative)    be 145,130 ha and          CTNP and 19,000                    increase) and
                130,125 ha in CTNP.        ha in CMRNP).                      152,068 ha in
                                                                              CTNP (a 17%
                                                                              increase)
Date achieved 02/09/1998                   06/30/2004                         12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %        Barren land in the buffer zones has been reported to be reduced to zero.

achievement)    However, the quality of forests has not been assessed.




                                                 iii

Indicator 3 :   Reduced proportion of people facing food security problems.
                                                                            In CMRNR, the
                CMRNP: 1,860                                                number of poor
                households out of 5,609                                     households
Value           are poor (33%).           Proportion of                     decreased to 1,299
quantitative or                           people facing food                out of 6,449(20%),
Qualitative)    CTNP: 12,307              security problems                 and in CTNP to
                households out of 40,491  reduced to 25%.                   10,818 households
                are poor (30%).                                             out of
                                                                            60,833(18%).
Date achieved 11/19/2001                  06/30/2004                        12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        100 percent of the target was achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Less than 5% of conservation agreements are violated.
                                                                            Violations were

Value                                     Violation of                      reported to be 0.7%

quantitative or No conservation           conservation                      in the buffer zone

Qualitative)    agreements exist.         agreements lis                    of CTNP and 0.6%
                                          now ess than 5%.                  in the buffer zone
                                                                            of CMRNR.
Date achieved 02/09/1998                  06/30/2004                        06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        100 percent of the target was achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Increased number of people in the protected area (PA) buffer zones aware of
                conservation values in PA.
                                                                            In the project
                                                                            communes, all
                                          Awareness of                      (100%) of GoV
                                          conservation                      staff, over 70% of
Value           There was a low level of values: 100% of                    farmer households,
(quantitative   awareness of              GoV staff, 70% of                 and80% of
or Qualitative) conservation values.      farmer households,                youth/students have
                                          and 80% of                        improved their
                                          youth/students.                   awareness of
                                                                            conservation
                                                                            values.
Date achieved 02/09/1998                  06/30/2004                        06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        100 percent of the target was achieved.
achievement)



                                               iv

Indicator 2 :   Protection Forest in the buffer zones of CTNP and CMRNP fully allocated to
                local households for protection.

                                            Protection forest                  29,806 ha of
                                                                               protection forest
Value           There were few              allocated to                       were allocated to
(quantitative   protection contracts in the households at                      local households for
or Qualitative) project area. Forests were100% and forest
                managed by SFEs.            protection                         protection under

                                            contracts signed.                  contracts.

Date achieved 02/09/1998                    06/30/2004                         06/30/2004
Comments
(incl. %        All protection forest available was allocated for protection. The target was

achievement)    achieved.

Indicator 3 :   Land allocation and land use certificates issued to cover total land area in the
                protected area buffer zones.
                                                                               100% of
                                                                               agricultural land

                                            Land use plan                      has been issued
                80% of agricultural land                                       with LURCs by the
Value           has been allocated by the   conducted for all                  government
(quantitative   government program, but     project communes                   program, and
or Qualitative) no forest land has been     and 100% of land                   26,237 ha of forest
                allocated.                  willbe issued with
                                            LURCs.                             land have been
                                                                               allocated and issued
                                                                               with LURCs by the
                                                                               project.
Date achieved 02/09/1998                    06/30/2004                         12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Commune Action Plans developed and approved by the Provincial People's
                Committees (PPCs).
                                            41 Commune
                                            Development                        43 Commune

Value           No community                Plans developed                    Development Plans

(quantitative   development plans           and approved by                    have been

or Qualitative) existed at the start of the the Provincial                     developed and
                project.                    People's                           approved by the
                                            Committees                         PPCs.
                                            (PPCs).
Date achieved 02/09/1998                    06/30/2004                         06/30/2004
Comments
(incl. %        The target was achieved.
achievement)




                                                 v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                              Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                 IP           Disbursements
                                                           (USD millions)
 1    11/14/1997        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               0.00
 2    09/04/1998        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               1.00
 3    12/09/1998       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory             1.00
 4    02/12/1999        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               1.02
 5    05/21/1999        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               1.10
 6    12/07/1999        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               1.58
 7    04/04/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               1.92
 8    10/24/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               2.52
 9    05/07/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               3.74
10    05/22/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               3.93
11    12/10/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               4.68
12    05/10/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               5.33
13    11/08/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               6.23
14    05/27/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               7.32
15    12/05/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               8.73
16    04/30/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               9.62
17    10/08/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             11.01
18    03/04/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             12.69
19    04/24/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             22.03



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                      vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 In 1997, about 80 percent of the total population of 75 million in Vietnam lived in the rural
areas and about 30 percent of Gross Domestic Product was derived from agriculture and natural
resources. The high population pressure on scarce arable land posed a significant threat to the
natural resource base including forests. Natural forest cover had declined from 67 percent of the
total area in the 1940s to about 26 percent in early 1990s. Although 19 million ha were classified
as forest land, 13 million ha of it were largely denuded land with low agricultural productivity
and only one million ha were covered with medium to rich quality forest. The leading cause of
forest degradation was shifting cultivation and expansion of the permanent arable land area, and
there was significant migration of farm-families, particularly from the north.

1.1.2 The Central Highlands, with low population density and the last remaining intact forests
with their high-value biodiversity, were experiencing an annual population growth rate of 6-8
percent. Population migration, previously highly-controlled, had become spontaneous since 1989
in line with the freeing-up of the economy, resulting in increased pressures on natural resources
and the environment.

1.1.3 The importance of the sustainable use of natural resources was one of the five key areas
emphasized in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Vietnam that was discussed by the
Board of the International Development Association (IDA) in November 1995 and in the CAS
Progress Report discussed in December 1996. This CAS also identified deforestation as a critical
issue for environmental action. IDA's involvement in Vietnam's environmental sector started in
1992 through the preparation of the report "Environmental Program and Policy Priorities for a
Socialist Economy in Transition" (published in 1995) and the subsequent development of the
Vietnam National Environmental Action Plan (VNNEAP). A major outcome of IDA's
environment work in Vietnam was the recognition of the multi-dimensional and multi-sectoral
nature of natural resource and environmental degradation. Based on this important environment
sector work, the government of Vietnam officially requested IDA assistance in strengthening its
efforts in protecting forests. A number of small-scale pilot initiatives under bilateral and non-
governmental organization (NGO) assistance generated a wide range of lessons for larger-scale
replication through an IDA-financed project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The project was designed to assist the government to protect and manage natural forests
with high levels of biodiversity. To contribute to the achievement of this goal, the project had
four development objectives: (a) the protection of the Cat Tien National Park (CTNP) and the
protection and management of the Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve (CMRNR); (b) the
management of natural forests outside the Protected Areas (PAs) but inside the buffer zones of
the CTNP and the CMRNR; (c) the development of the livelihoods of the residents in the buffer
zones to reduce their dependency on the CTNP and the CMRNR for subsistence and cash
incomes; and (d) the strengthening of government capacity to design, implement and monitor
Integrated Conservation and Development Projects (ICDPs).




                                                  1

1.2.2 The Key Performance Monitoring Indicators agreed for the project were:

 Development                 Impact Indicator                          Output Indicator
   Objective
       (a)        Reduced incidence of: (i) illegal         An increased number of people in the
                  harvesting and transport of PA forest     buffer zones aware of conservation values
                  products to approach zero; and (ii)       in the PA: GoV staff/NGOs 100 percent;
                  unwarranted fire by 50 percent            farmer households 70 percent; youths and
                                                            students 80 percent
       (b)        Forest cover in buffer zones increased by 100 percent of forest land in buffer zones
                  10 percent and barren land decreased by   to be allocated to farmers
                  50 percent
       (c)        Proportion of people facing food          100 percent of households in the buffer
                  insecurity reduced by 25 percent and the  zones to have Land Use Rights
                  proportion of conservation agreements     Certificates ("red books"), and 100
                  violated or abrogated to be below 5       percent of the area of the buffer zones to
                  percent                                   be allocated.
       (d)        The extent to which the approach is       Commune Action Plans approved for 37
                  incorporated into government policies     communes and three towns.
                  and programs for forest protection.



1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

1.3.1 There were no changes made to the PDOs or the Key Indicators during project
implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 There were three main groups of project beneficiaries:

(a) the PA Management Boards, through improving their capacity and efficiency in protecting
invaluable biodiversity of the CTNP and CMRNR and in managing natural forests in the buffer
zones;

(b) the poor and poorest populations and minorities living in the project area, by ensuring a higher
degree of food security, increasing household incomes, improving rates of literacy, improving
health and sanitation, creating employment opportunities, and developing their specific cultural
identify; and

(c) central and local government bodies, through improving their institutional and administrative
capacity. The project provided a new model for improved PA management and established more
participatory organizational processes that could be expanded to other ecologically significant
areas in Vietnam.




                                                   2

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1 Component 1: Protected Area Management for CMRNR included:

(a) the revision of the existing Management Plan for the CMRNR including the adjustment of
boundaries, the definition of management zones, the formulation of management programs and
regulations, the approval process for the adoption of the revised Management Plan, and
assessments of the possibility of including an additional 85,000 ha to the west and south of the
defined area of the Reserve;

(b) the implementation of the revised Management Plan including boundary demarcation, the
introduction of PA management programs, the development of basic infrastructure and the
acquisition of basic equipment;

(c) the implementation of selected research studies and surveys;

(d) the formulation and implementation of a public awareness campaign in the CMRNR buffer
zone;

(e) the development of programs to encourage and manage nature tourism (or eco-tourism) in the
PA and buffer zone; and

(f) the training of CMRNR staff.

1.5.2 Component 2: Buffer Zone Development was designed to reduce the incursion pressure
on the PAs by increasing incomes, providing land tenure, and enhancing the management and use
of existing natural forests in the buffer zones. This component was to be implemented in a
similar manner in both CTNP and CMRNR and was designed to use a participatory, process-
oriented approach to derive Commune Action Plans (CAPs) for rural development. The CAPs
were to be the focal point around which the following six sub-components were to be
implemented.

1.5.3 Sub-component (a): Community Development Planning was designed to establish, for
each project commune, the capacity and conditions for implementing a participatory planning
process and prepare a CAP. The participatory rural appraisal (PRA) method was to be used to
identify essential social support services, associated activities (such as land allocation, access to
essential health and education services) and rural development interventions to improve incomes
and generate employment opportunities especially for the poorer households and ethnic
minorities. Funding under the project to implement the CAP was to be conditional on
commitments by the community to undertake conservation measures, make counterpart
contributions, ensure the maintenance of project investments, and not adversely affect the PAs.

1.5.4 Sub-component (b): Land Allocation, to be implemented in all project communes, was
designed to help control migration, increase social stability, improve access to institutional credit
and promote sustainable land use. It provided funds: (a) to expedite the land allocation process
and land-use planning at the commune level to derive participatory land use plans; (b) to enable
demarcation of boundaries for natural forests designated for protection purposes and allocation of
degraded forest areas for agro-forestry or agricultural use; and (c) to facilitate the preparation of
forest protection contracts.




                                                  3

1.5.5 Sub-component (c): Social Support Program was aimed at improving the productivity
and sustainability of agricultural and forestry systems, improving access to basic social
infrastructure, and increasing income and employment generating opportunities for the buffer
zone communities. Investment activities included "food security" improvement, provision of
basic infrastructure, and strengthening of local social and cultural institutions. Beneficiaries and
local governments were required to carry out conservation activities agreed to in the CAP.

1.5.6 Sub-component (d): Agricultural Support Services was designed to improve yields and
diversify farm incomes through the strengthening of extension services for agriculture and agro-
forestry; the promotion of technology transfer from existing commodity development institutions;
increasing public awareness of the need for sustainable agriculture practices; and ensuring the
availability of necessary planting materials and inputs. Support was provided to strengthen
District Extension Centers (DECs) and to train Commune Extension Agents. Agricultural credit
support was supposed to be provided by the Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development (VBARD) using its own resources.

1.5.7 Sub-component (e): Forest Management included two activities addressing protection
and management of existing natural forests in the buffer zone: (a) forest protection contracts were
to be issued to households to protect against fire and outside encroachers and funds provided to
strengthen the forest guard force; (b) a pilot study on restructuring of State Forest Enterprises
(SFEs) was to be carried out to facilitate development of the government's policy to restructure
state enterprises and to improve the management of remaining natural forests outside the PAs.

1.5.8 Sub-component (f): Rural Infrastructure provided financing for: (a) the rehabilitation of
existing irrigation schemes and the construction of new systems to increase food production and
improve food security; (b) the up-grading of some inter-commune and commune-district roads
within the buffer zones; and (c) improving road access to the headquarters of CTNP and
CMRNR. The final selection of schemes was to be based on social, environmental, financial and
economic criteria and the demonstrated commitment of local governments and communities to
conservation objectives through the process of developing CAP and implementing conservation
agreements. Priority was given to schemes with higher impact on poverty alleviation and those
that served a high proportion of ethnic minorities.

1.5.9 Component 3: Project Management and Institutional Development included:
(a) project management, which supported the establishment of the institutional structures and
management processes to implement the project, including monitoring and evaluation of project
impacts, financial management and audits, and supervision; and (b) institutional development,
which aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity at all levels, particularly provincial,
district and community, to implement project activities and sustain project interventions.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 The components of the project were not revised during the project's lifetime.

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1 During project implementation, there were some significant changes in the allocation
of funds and in the scope of some sub-components which responded to actual implementation
conditions. Funds were reallocated between disbursement categories of the DCA, the most




                                                  4

significant of which was from the land allocation and forest protection contracts to the Social
Support Program (SSP) as a result of the following:

(a) Project design and scope. There were significant changes in socio-economic conditions in
the project area between appraisal and implementation. At appraisal, a high target of land
allocation was set (the issuance of LURCs for about 80,000 ha to local households); however, a
smaller area (26,237 ha to 11,113 households with LURCs) was allocated during implementation
because: (i) the issuance of LURCs for agricultural land to households had mostly been
completed by the central government and provincial programs using government funds; and (ii)
the amount of forest land available to be allocated to households was less than anticipated.
Similarly, at appraisal some 90,000 ha of protection forest were expected to be allocated to
households under the protection contract arrangements; however, in practice only about 29,806 ha
were allocated because the Provincial People's Committees (PPCs) decided to use government
funds to finance forest protection.

(b) The implementation period. The project was extended for two years. At start-up, project
performance was seriously hampered by: (i) problems associated with the selection of the
technical assistance (TA) which was only mobilized 18 months after the Credit had become
effective; (ii) long approval procedures within MARD for the use of funds, and unrealistically
low government-mandated cost norms for field activities; and (iii) weak PMU and PPMUs.

(c) Reallocation of funds. Less funding than anticipated at appraisal was needed for forest
protection contracts. The demand for SSP increased during implementation since most
communities in the project area are very poor. In addition, during project implementation the
number of project communes increased from 40 to 43 (as a result of the redefinition of commune
boundaries) which resulted in significantly increased costs. To meet the objective set for the SSP,
more funds were allocated for rural livelihood improvement. As a result of the extension of the
project implementation period, more funds were needed for project management and institutional
development. In addition, project management capacity at central and provincial level was found
to be very weak and thus required considerable training.

1.7.2 The financial resources available for the project in US$ terms increased during
implementation as the result of exchange rate changes between the US$ and the Special Drawing
Right (SDR). The original total budget increased from US$32.3 million to US$35.9 million. The
gain was allocated to the SSP, which helped improve the livelihoods of the majority of poor and
ethnic minorities residing in the buffer zone.




                                                 5

                                      Project Cost by Component

                                                                   Original budget       Revised budget
                                                                      (US$ million)         (US$ million)
  Component 1: Protected Area Management                                  3.63                    1.67
  Component 2: Buffer Zone Development
  (a) Community development planning                                      0.72                    0.35
  (b) Land allocation                                                     2.05                    0.69
  (c) Social support program (SSP)                                        3.48                    8.96
  (d) Agricultural support services                                       2.82                    2.03
  (e) Forest management                                                   3.42                    1.79
  (f) Rural infrastructure (RI)                                          12.03                  12.96
  Component 3: Project Management and Institutional
  Development                                                             4.14                   7.44

  Total Project Cost                                                     32.29                  35.90
    Note 1: The revised budget in Component 3 included the Technical Assistance for Component 1.
    Note 2: During implementation of the SSP and the RI, about US$1.3 million of government funds were used for
             land compensation which is not included in the above table.



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1    Project Preparation. During project preparation, there was extensive participation and
consultation through the social assessment and environmental assessment process. Project design
was practical with the emphasis being place on defining achievable development objectives.

2.1.2 During preparation, it was recognized that many of the project interventions were
innovative and "pilot" in nature and, therefore, could be considered risky. However, project
activities built upon processes that had been tested and demonstrated in other parts of Vietnam
(through bilateral- and NGO-funded projects) and elsewhere in the region. Furthermore, the
process was tested in two project communes during project preparation.

2.1.3 Increased population pressure resulting from both unplanned and planned migration into
the project area was conceived as a major risk, and mitigation measures were included in the
project design. For instance, to minimize unplanned migration the project was designed: (a) to
provide secure land tenure in the buffer zones through land allocation and the issuance of LURCs
for local people; and (b) to improve enforcement using joint protection contracts as well as
strengthening protection measures. At project appraisal, the provincial governments provided
written commitments not to allow planned migration into the project area.

2.1.4 Project Design built upon three major lessons learned from earlier ICDPs. First, since
many previous ICDPs failed to link the conservation objective with the development objective,
this project explicitly linked investment activities to conservation commitments through the
sequencing of activities. The completion of the CAPs, land allocation, issuance of forest
protection contracts, and the signing of conservation agreements with local communities were
prerequisites for rural infrastructure investments. Second, experiences with management of
natural resources have shown that it is important for local communities to be intimately involved
in identifying and assigning priorities to their needs in order to ensure ownership and cooperation.



                                                         6

This "bottom up", community-driven development (CDD) approach was relatively new in
Vietnam at the time of design. Third, previous ICDPs worked in one or two project villages or
communes but the impacts tended to be too limited in halting encroachment into the relevant PAs.
This project was designed to include the entire buffer zone and to provide a comprehensive set of
interventions (including improved conservation measures, income-generation activities,
agricultural extension, land allocation, small-scale rural infrastructure and institutional
strengthening) to address the threats to the PAs.

2.1.5 The project is located in remote and poor areas with a significant presence of ethnic
minorities. The weak capacity of implementing agencies and local communities was well
recognized. Significant changes in the socio-economic conditions in the project area were also
anticipated. However, measures to deal effectively with these risks were not sufficiently included
in project design.

2.1.6 Quality at Entry. With its CDD nature, the project was designed with flexibility which
allowed local communities to make decisions on investment activities during implementation
(e.g., SSP, agricultural extension and rural infrastructure schemes). Extensive training programs
for local officers and villagers (stakeholders) were also included in the project design. A "Quality
at Entry" review was carried out by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) and found to be
satisfactory. Despite that, with the benefit of hindsight it can be seen that project implementation
would have been enhanced if the following had been incorporated at project preparation:

     · Providing training to local institutions on procurement and financial management and to
          communities on participation procedures at the earliest stage, preferably at project
          preparation rather than during implementation. However, this would have required
          additional budget resources and a longer preparation time.
     · Completing government pre-feasibility and feasibility studies of key rural infrastructure
          schemes; however, this would be counter to the sequencing of project activities to use
          infrastructure as an incentive for appropriate conservation behavior; and
     · Better projection of the demand for support for land allocation (issuing LURCs) and
          forest protection contracts in the buffer zones and for the SSP.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1     Overall. The implementation of the project is considered to have been satisfactory, with
the PDOs having been fully achieved. The project made good progress after a prolonged delay at
its start. The project comprised the first major IDA loan plus TA support to the forest sector.
Like many official development aid-funded projects inVietnam, the project incurred considerable
delays at start-up. The project was also a complex one, dealing not only with investment in
conservation and development but also the linkages between them.

2.2.2     The project implementation period can be divided into three parts:

(a) From 1998 to December 2000 (the first two and a half years): Project performance was
seriously hampered by: (i) problems associated with the selection of the technical assistance (TA)
which was only mobilized 18 months after the Credit had become effective; and (ii) long
approval procedures within MARD for the use of funds and unrealistically low cost norms for
field activities. As a result, during this period few activities were implemented and disbursements
were low.




                                                    7

(b) From January 2001 to December 2003 (three years): Once the TA team was operating,
implementation gradually caught up, especially after the mid-term review in November 2001.
Progress was made in the revision of the CMRNR management plan; the preparation of CAPs;
land allocation; contractual arrangements and the implementation of agricultural extension
programs; social, economic and environmental screening for small-scale rural schemes to be
financed under the approved CAPs; and the preparation of pre-feasibility and feasibility studies,
including Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for proposed rural schemes under the rural
infrastructure component. Project performance during this period was satisfactory. Although
disbursement levels improved, they were still low because the RI sub-component was not yet
fully implemented. The project required an extension of the Credit's Closing Date by two years
to achieve its PDOs completely.

(c) From 2004 to 2006 (the last two and a half years): Project implementation was at full speed,
especially the implementation of the SSP and RI sub-components. Disbursements increased
rapidly toward the end of the project. Disbursement of the IDA Credit reached 100 percent of the
original US$ budget plan or 97 percent of the SDR budget. Similarly, disbursement of the
Netherlands Grant reached 93 percent of the revised budget. (N.B. The Netherlands Government
provided an additional amount of approximately 1,100,000 Euros to cover the shortfall in
financing caused by the exchange rate movements between the Netherlands Guilder and the US$.
The amendment was dated September 6, 2002).

Component 1: Protected Area Management for the CMRNP

2.2.3 Despite initial delays caused by the late arrival of the TA team, project performance in PA
management planning was satisfactory, with approaches widely replicable in other protected
areas (for detailed outputs, refer to Annex 4). Factors affecting implementation of the
component were as follows:

(a) TechnicalAssistance (TA) located in the field. The International PA Specialist was based in
CMRNR to assist it in conservation management planning through the development of a
comprehensive management plan prepared to international standards. With the high quality
management plan, the Reserve was up-graded by the government to the status of a National Park
and was expanded towards the south (by 7,963 ha) to include areas with high biodiversity value.

(b) Adequate funds allocated for implementing the approved Management Plan. With grant
funds provided by the Netherlands Government, the CMRMB was able to implement all activities
in the approved plan to achieve the component's objective. Implementation of the management
plan, in general, was on track and of satisfactory quality although with some delays. Among the
important achievements were the upgrading of the status of the CMR from a Nature Reserve to a
National Park, boundary demarcation for the Park and the development of ranger patrolling
regimes to improve forest and biodiversity protection, comprehensive public awareness
campaigns to encourage public involvement in conservation activities, and selected research
studies and surveys.

(c) Government's policy changes. At appraisal, an assessment of the possibility of including an
additional 85,000 ha of forest south of the CMRNR was planned. However, during
implementation it was not possible for such an extension to be achieved because the area was re-
classified as a military area which belongs to the Ministry of Defense. The project, therefore, was
able to support only activities to enhance the management of the area and an expansion of an area
of 7,963 ha with the highest biodiversity value.



                                                 8

Component 2: Buffer Zone Development

2.2.4 Sub-component 2(a): Community Development Planning was the first step
implemented in the field to build capacity at local levels, including for communities, and to
identify the needs for project interventions (i.e., SSP, ASP, land allocation, and design for forest
protection contracts and protection activities). Factors affecting implementation of the
component were as follows:

(a) Bottom-up planning. The project supported community development planning for 43
project communes (increased from the original 40) through participatory processes to prepare
integrated CAPs that addressed both forest protection and rural development objectives. This
new participatory planning approach had not been applied in the project area before but has been
welcomed strongly by all stakeholders.

(b) Commune Advisory Groups (CAGs) and Commune Working Groups (CWGs). The
establishment of CAGs was important to work with villages to facilitate the PRA process and the
preparation of CAPs. The establishment of CWGs with representatives from stakeholders was
critical as a primary tool to support implementation of project activities at the commune level.
These arrangements appeared effective in ensuring the quality of the "bottom up" planning
process and local ownership.

(c) Weak institutional capacity. Though the PRA and the preparation of CAPs were generally
appreciated by stakeholders, it took 18 months to complete CAPs for all 43 communes and to
obtain the approvals of the PPCs. The process took much longer than expected, mainly because
of weak local capacity, including both local communities and ethnic minorities, and the
bureaucracy of the PMU and provinces in reviewing and approving the prepared CAPs. The slow
preparation of the CAPs delayed implementation of other sub-components since they are
explicitly linked.

2.2.5 Sub-component 2(b): Land Allocation was implemented in all project communes based
on the results of the PRAs/CAPs and in collaboration with the Provincial and District Land
Administration Offices, with the aim of controlling migration into the project area, increasing
social stability, improving access to institutional credit and promoting sustainable land use.
Factors affecting the implementation of the component were as follows:

(a) Land conflicts. Although in most cases the issuance of LURCs served to legalize de facto
ownership and provided long-term secure rights for land traditionally or socially already
belonging to the individual farmers, land conflicts (between users and with the SFEs) are
complicated and the main reason for slowness of allocation.

(b) Existence of government programs. When the project started its implementation, the
issuance of LURCs for agricultural land to households had mostly been completed by the central
government and provincial programs using government funds. In addition, the amount of forest
land available to be allocated to households was less than anticipated. However, the overall land
allocation component achieved its main objective of ensuring that all land in the buffer zones has
legal owners and reducing migration into the project area. With secure long-term land-use rights,
farmers have also invested more in their land through adopting advanced agro-forestry farming
models introduced by the project.




                                                    9

2.2.6 Sub-component 2(c): The Social Support Program was the key to buffer zone
development, providing direct support to local poor communities for "food security"
improvement and the provision of basic infrastructure (e.g., household water supply, schools,
clinics and intra-commune roads) to improve their livelihoods and income opportunities. Factors
affecting implementation of the component were as follows:

(a) Community-driven process. Implementation of this sub-component was based on the results
of the PRAs/CAPs processes which had not been completed until the end of Year 2. Delivery of
SSP activities only began slowly by the end of 2001 (the end of Project Year 3) and became fully
operational by the end of 2003 (the end of Project Year 5).

(b) Focus on poverty reduction and livelihood improvement. Linking conservation with poverty
reduction and livelihood improvement was the main feature of this sub-component which made
the project more acceptable to local beneficiaries. In fact, this sub-component was most
appreciated by local authorities. There are many success stories with long-term impact. For
example, by the end of the project in Kon Tum province, the number of poor households was
reduced by 40-50 percent (according to the old criteria of MOLISA); in Lam Dong by about 80
percent, in Dong Nai about 60-70 percent, in Kon Tum about 60 percent, in Binh Phuoc about 50
percent, and in Dac Nong, about 30-40 percent (although this represents an aggregated impact of
many projects and programs).

(c) Focus on small- scale investments. Most of the funds allocated to the SSP were used for the
provision of small-scale infrastructure that benefited the whole community (such as schools,
community wells, electricity systems, small canals and soil reclamation schemes). A small
portion of funds was used to provide direct support to the poor through the provision of
productive materials and inputs, seedlings and training. These small-scale investments are easy
to implement, effectively address the diverse needs of local communities and yield a high rate of
return.

(d) Weak capacity at the provincial level especially in procurement. Starting from 2000 and
most strongly in 2003, MARD decentralized its approval decision power to the PPCs to
accelerate implementation. However, weak procurement capacity at the provincial level
remained the main constraint. To address this problem, continuous training at different levels
was maintained until the end of the project. The Bank also increased its supervision (four short
missions or more per year were made during the period 2002-2004; supervision reverted to two
missions per year during 2005-2006). The Monitoring and Auditing Team (MAT) was recruited
as designed, and was in place by the end of 2003 to assist the PMU and PPMUs in monitoring the
quantity and quality of field implementation. A comprehensive set of reports was produced (for
every project commune) and up-dated regularly, which evaluated the effectiveness of project
activities and made recommendations for improvement. The MAT's reports contained useful
information and data about the project, providing the basis on which the Project Director, Chief
Technical Advisor and PPMU Directors could monitor contract implementation of service
providers more effectively.

2.2.7 Sub-component 2(d): Agricultural Support Program aimed at improving yields and
farm incomes through the strengthening of the government's extension system, the introduction of
advanced sustainable farming models for agriculture and agro-forestry, and increasing public
awareness of sustainable farming. Factors affecting implementation of the component were as
follows:




                                                10

(a) Demonstration models. The approach combining training with demonstrations seemed more
effective and receptive to local communities. In each village of every commune, at least two
demonstration models (i.e., crops, livestock, and farm management skills) were established to
link the technical training and field demonstration. Recipients appear to have put much of the
training into practice, as indicated by improved cultivation techniques and the adoption of new
technologies throughout the project area. Increases in rice yields ranged from 11 percent for Kon
Tum up to 41 percent in Binh Phuoc. Cassava yields increased by more than 100 percent in Dong
Nai and Dac Nong. Cashew production yields also increased, especially in Binh Phuoc where
yields increased by 83 percent. Livestock-raising developed significantly. Before the project,
very few poor households had cattle but livestock ownership increased to a significant number by
the end of the project.

(b) Using the existing extension system. While the use of the government extension system
from the central to commune levels was able to avoid establishing a parallel implementation
structure, the weak capacity of provincial/district extension centers (especially in the timely
procurement of agricultural inputs for demonstration models) appeared to be one of the key
constraints affecting the quality of extension services.

(c) Low cost norms. The rigid use of cost norms by the PPCs in reviewing and approving
annual extension plans/contracts was the most serious constraint affecting the timely
implementation of demonstration models.

2.2.8 Sub-component 2(e): Forest Management addressed the protection and management of
existing natural forests in the buffer zones by designing and allocating forest protection contracts
(for households to protect against fire and outside encroachers) and by strengthening the forest
guard force at commune level through establishing commune forest protection groups. In
addition, a pilot study on restructuring SFEs was carried out to facilitate the development of the
government's policy to restructure state enterprises and to improve the management of the
remaining natural forests outside the PAs. Factors affecting implementation of the component
were as follows:

(a) Allocation of forest protection contracts to households. This approach did not work well in
some areas where the local community is living far from the forest. In addition, the payment rate
of VND50,000 (US$3) per hectare per year set by the government appeared too low compared to
labor and time spent for forest protection. At appraisal, a target allocation was set of 80,000 ha of
protection forest to households under forest protection contracts; however, during project
implementation, only about 29,808 ha were allocated, mostly in Dak Nong, Kon Tum and Lam
Dong provinces. For Binh Phuoc and Dong Nai provinces, the PPCs decided to use government
funds to finance forest protection through the government protection forces.

(b) Commune Forest Protection Groups were established to enforce forest laws and to monitor
compliance of households with the conservation agreements. However, as a result of the lack of
resources and facilities, the performance of monitoring activities was weak and it is possible that
violation cases were under-reported.

(c) Training and awareness campaigns were more focused and conducted extensively for local
communities and school pupils. Forest violations in the CTNP and CMRNR have reportedly
been reduced significantly in both their scale and severity, and no large-scale forest fires have
occurred. The regeneration of natural forest in the PAs is rapidly occurring. Environmental
awareness of local communities in the buffer zones has been improved.



                                                 11

2.2.9 Sub-component 2(f): Rural Infrastructure (RI). This sub-component mainly financed:
(a) the rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes and the construction of new systems to
increase food production and food security; (b) the up-grading of selected inter-commune and
commune-district roads within the buffer zones; and (c) improving road access to the
headquarters of CTNP and CMRNR. Factors affecting implementation of the component were as
follows:

(a) Sequencing of activities. According to the project design, RI was to be implemented last after
local communities had demonstrated their commitment to the signed conservation agreements
and after the social, environmental and economic screening for the proposed schemes had been
carried out thoroughly. Implementation of the sub-component only began with preparatory work
in early 2002 (Project Year 4) including pre-feasibility and feasibility studies for the proposed
schemes and resettlement plans (mainly land compensation) based on the agreed project
Resettlement Framework. As a result, construction started mostly in Project Year 5 and was
completed by the end of the project.

(b) Long rainy season in the Central Highlands. The construction of RI schemes took longer than
planned because it had to stop during the long and heavy rainy season from May to October, the
impact of which had been under-estimated in project design.

(c) Lack of counterpart funds allocated from the central to the provincial levels caused delays in
payments to constructors which, in turn, had an impact on the pace of construction especially in
2005. This issue was recognized and resolved by MARD in 2006.

(d) Unqualified design firms and constructors. Some schemes were delayed because of poor
quality of design firms and local constructors and performance of supervision consultants. The
IDA supervision mission in September 2005 drew the attention of MARD and the PPCs to this
issue. Consequently, MARD and the provinces' technical departments intensified supervision of
construction and corrected the deficiencies. IDA also sent independent technical consultants to
carry out ex post checks on construction quality. The PPMUs followed up with the contractors to
ensure that the recommendations made by these consultants were followed before making final
payments.

Component 3: Project Management and Institutional Development

2.2.10 Project management was moderately satisfactory, with significant improvement being
achieved over time. Procurement and financial management, including audits, were satisfactory
at both the central and the provincial levels. Clear achievements were made in institutional
development. Commune planning and other rural development approaches developed by the
project have been incorporated into other government programs; all provinces have promoted the
approaches in new development projects; and the approach has made its way into project design
in other southern provinces. In the case of PA management planning, project approaches and
lessons learned are being applied in developing management plans for other PAs. Factors
affecting effective project management were as follows:

(a) There was a "disconnect" between the project preparation unit and the implementation unit.
According to MARD's regulations, the project was prepared by its technical departments under
the coordination of the International Cooperation Department (ICD) and implemented by a
newly-established PMU under the Forest Project Management Board. The "disconnect" between



                                                  12

the project preparation unit and the implementation unit resulted in a difficult start-up period
because staff needed to be retrained.

(b) The government's low pay scales. During project implementation, staff turnover rate was
high because of government's low pay scales. Retaining high-quality staff was always difficult
and challenging for project management.

(c) A lack of decentralization in the government's project management structure and procedures
was the main constraint to implementation in the first half of the project's life. MARD did not
fully decentralize project management decisions to the provincial level until 2003. The nature of
a CDD-type project and MARD's bureaucracy resulted in serious delays in handling and
reviewing procurement activities at the central level and in implementing field activities at local
levels.

(d) The late arrival of TA. The long delay of concluding TA recruitment seriously hampered
project implementation in the first two years. This was resolved by the end of 1999.

(e) The use of MOF and MARD cost norms not based on prevailing market prices in developing
work plans, budget plans and procurement plans at both the central and provincial levels caused
delays in all steps of project implementation because it was difficult for the project to acquire
goods and services of the required quality.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 M&E Design. During project preparation, attention had been given to the design of an
M&E system for the project. The project included nine person-months for an international M&E
specialist to help the PMU prepare and establish an M&E system based on the key performance
indicators (KPI) identified at project appraisal. In addition, a further 65 person-months were
budgeted for contracting a local MAT to provide an independent measurement and analysis of
project and TA activities and all aspects of performance on an annual basis. Progress was
measured against the KPI. Periodic overall M&E was carried out by the PMU with assistance
from international experts.

2.3.2 The PMU was responsible for preparing Progress Reports using information submitted by
the PPMU. Semi-annual reports were submitted to IDA using the KPI as the basis for assessing
progress. These reports: (a) assessed the progress of all activities against agreed annual work
plans and targets; (b) identified problems and recommend remedial action; and (c) reviewed
procurement and disbursement activities. As required by the DCA, Progress Reports were sent to
the IDA for review by July 31 and January 31 of each year, and annual work plans and financing
plans for project activities for the next calendar year were sent for review by August 31 of each
year.

2.3.3 M&E Implementation. A simple M&E system is the key factor to ensure that the M&E
system functions. The international M&E specialist began work in late-1999 reviewing the M&E
indicators, establishing base-line data and undertaking staff training. However, the first M&E
system was too complicated and several revisions were made to simplify it, followed by
workshops and training. The M&E system was established and ready for testing at the local level
only by early 2001 (Project Year 3). A fully-functioning M&E system was in place in early 2002
(Project Year 4).




                                                  13

2.3.4 M&E Utilization. A properly functioning M&E system requires a continuous provision
of data inputs. Establishment of the system is just the first step; maintaining it by continuous data
inputs is a much more difficult task. In the last year of the project, the M&E system ceased to
function because of the lack of data inputs from the local levels and the lack of back-up TA.
With strong pressure from IDA supervision missions, the M&E system was restored and became
operational again before the Credit's Closing Date.

2.3.5 Monthly progress reports. In addition to semi-annual and annual reports, and in order to
closely monitor and accelerate implementation, IDA requested monthly Progress Reports starting
from June 1999 (after one year of implementation). The PMU generally met the reporting
requirements including annual, semi-annual and monthly Progress Reports, although submission
of the reports was often one month late. The Progress Reports served as a basis for supervision
by the government and IDA.

2.3.6 Monitoring and Auditing Team (MAT). The project introduced the concept of
independent monitoring through the hiring of an independent MAT which was functioning by the
end of 2003 and produced yearly reports containing systematic monitoring information on project
investment activities and recommendations. The independent MAT approach was considered a
good model and is applicable to other projects.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Project implementation was fully in compliance with the Bank's safeguards and fiduciary
requirements. Close supervision and monitoring by the government and the IDA have been
maintained throughout the project.

(a) Environmental safeguards: With the main objective of forest protection and conservation
for the two key national parks and their buffer zones, the project yielded positive environmental
impacts as expected. The sustainable use and management of forest land have been improved in
the project area. All small-scale rural infrastructure investments were screened and reviewed by
the government's Environment and Natural Resources Departments and IDA's environment
specialists, including the preparation of environment impact assessment reports. In addition, the
Bank's supervision missions closely examined the environmental issues associated with the
newly-constructed schemes. No major issues have been found.

(b) Social safeguards: During project design, no resettlement of households was envisaged for
the PA component. Every effort was made to adjust and demarcate the boundaries of the PAs
without affecting existing housing or land used for agriculture. However, since the rural
infrastructure schemes were to be identified during implementation through a bottom-up planning
approach, a Policy Framework for Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons
was developed by the government in accordance with the Bank's OD 4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement. During implementation some small-scale rural infrastructure schemes required the
taking of some private land, and a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP/sub-RAP) for each scheme
was prepared by the PPMU, approved by the PPC, and reviewed and cleared by IDA.
Supervision missions closely examined the implementation of the approved RAPs and ensured
that compensation was provided satisfactorily before construction started.

(c) Fiduciary safeguards: Financial management (including audits) was satisfactory during the
implementation period.




                                                 14

(d) Anti-collusion efforts: A few cases of collusion in bidding were found during project
implementation (five cases out of a total of 1,558 contracts). These cases were investigated by
the PPMUs and corrective measures were taken against the colluding bidders. As a result, about
22 bidders were banned from participating in all procurement under the project. Names of those
bidders were also published in national and/or provincial newspapers and other public media
(such as local TVs and in public places). This was the first time that anti-collusion actions had
been taken seriously in those provinces.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 Protected area management planning. The Management Plans produced for the two
PAs were approved and adopted by the government and financed by the Credit. The Investment
Plans for the up-coming five-year period for these two parks have also been developed and
approved by MARD. This is an important indication of the extent to which the project
management planning processes have been taken up within government planning for protected
areas. However, it should be noted that the method for developing investment plans for PAs has
not yet changed and still follows the norms of the MoF and MPI (i.e., mostly focusing on
investment for infrastructure schemes). The government structure is not yet in place to support a
change in the way that PAs are funded (i.e., the needed emphasis on conservation and
management operations rather than on infrastructure development). In the future, it is likely that
the two parks will continue to rely on external sources of funds to implement non-infrastructure
operations. These parks are eligible to apply for funds under the Vietnam Conservation Fund
supported by a number of donors (including IDA/GEF).

2.5.2 Protection of the National Parks. At both the CMRNR and the CTNP, management
capacity has increased considerably and their staffs are well versed in international standard
planning and management techniques. A focus of training had been the ranger force. As a result
of the capacity building, both the CMRNR and the CTNP have put into place patrol reporting
systems that are well designed and comprehensive enough to record effectively the human impact
and biodiversity data. These have been maintained by the Parks under the government's program
since the Credit's closing.

2.5.3 Linkages between conservation and development. Almost all households in the project
area have signed commitments with the PPMUs on forest protection. Local people's awareness of
forest protection has increased significantly. Land allocation and improved responsibilities for
environmental management have helped reduce the unsustainable use of forest products by buffer
zone residents. An overall aggregated impact of the project was reported to be a reduction in the
number and severity of forest violations which suggests that a start has been made in establishing
a linkage between conservation and CDD, especially at the commune level. It was agreed that the
conservation agreements are maintained by the Park Management Boards in cooperation with the
provincial FPDs. National funds (i.e., the 661 Program) have been used to maintain the forest
protection contracts with local households since the Credit's closing.

2.5.4 The operation and maintenance of the completed schemes. The project's activities (the
SSP, agricultural development and infrastructure improvement) have made a direct contribution
towards livelihoods improvement and have formed a basis for the sustainable management of
natural resources. All the completed infrastructure schemes under the project have been handed
over to local communities and the respective government's institutions in accordance with the
government' regulations for use and maintenance. Training has also been provided to local
communities for effective utilization and operations (i.e., training for water-users' groups on



                                                 15

operation and management of irrigation schemes). Since the schemes have been transferred to
the provinces, it has been confirmed that the provincial budgets (with some contributions from
local communities) have been used to finance the operation and maintenance costs since the
Credit's closing.

2.5.5 Institutional Capacity. The PMU and PPMUs will be dissolved after completing all the
required government procedures (i.e., financial reconciliation, inspections and handovers) which
usually take six to twelve months to complete. At the central level, key staff of the PMU will be
assigned to new projects under the management of the FPMB. At the provincial level, most
PPMU key staff in Kon Tum, Lam Dong and Dac Nong provinces have been assigned to the new
ADB-supported project of forest development and livelihood improvement in the Central
Highlands. In Binh Phuoc, the PPMU has shifted to managing buffer zone forests as a FMB
under DARD, and in Dong Nai there is a new project for the CTNP financed by other donors.
Some staff of PPMUs, District Working Groups (DWGs) and CWGs have gone back to their
previous institutions (e.g., provincial/district Forest Departments). It is clear that capacity
building under the project has directly or indirectly assisted the government at different levels in
creating institutional capacity, which will be taken up by future projects and programs financed
either by government or other donors.



3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 The objectives of the project remained valid throughout the project cycle and are in line
with the government's advancement of "grass-roots democracy", protected area management
strategies and socio-economic development strategies. The project's objectives were also
consistent with the National Strategy for Socio-Economic Development for 2001-2010 (SEDS),
the Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS), the Strategic Orientation
for Sustainable Development (National Agenda 21), and the Strategy for Environmental
Protection (NSEP). In particular, the NSEP calls for increased efforts to improve the regulatory
framework and raise public awareness of environmental issues. This was to some extent
anticipated in the PDO related to the strengthening of government capacity to design, implement
and monitor future ICDPs.

3.1.2 The objectives remain relevant to the current CAS that supports equitable, socially-
inclusive and sustainable development and the promotion of good government, and are also
consistent with the revised Rural Development Strategy for Vietnam, prepared by the Bank in
2005, which emphasized the linkages between forest conservation and livelihood development in
the Central Highlands.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 The project has fully achieved its overall goal of assisting the government to protect and
manage natural forests with high levels of biodiversity and the four development objectives.
More specifically (for detailed outputs of each component refer to Annex 4):
(a) the protection of the CTNP and the protection and management of the CMRNR have been
effective through improved management planning, boundary demarcation, staff training,
awareness programs and strengthening of forest protection forces (the outputs of Component 1);




                                                   16

(b) the management of natural forests inside the buffer zones of the CTNP and the CMRNR has
been improved through land allocation to reduce migration and the introduction of sustainable
agro-forestry farming models (the outputs of Component 2);

(c) the development of the livelihoods of the residents in the buffer zones to reduce their
dependency on PAs for subsistence and cash incomes has been successfully implemented under
the SSP. Poverty rates were significantly reduced in all project provinces (the outputs of
Component 2). In Kontum province, the number of poor households was reduced by 40-50
percent (according to the old criteria of MOLISA); in Lam Dong, poverty was reduced by about
80 percent; in Dong Nai by about 60-70 percent, in Kon Tum by about 60 percent, in Binh Phuoc
by about 50 percent, and in Dac Nong by about 30-40 percent; and

(d) the government's capacity to design, implement and monitor ICDPs was significantly
strengthened at the Ministry, Province, commune and community levels (the outputs of all
components, especially Component 3).

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 The results of the analysis show an Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of 13.7
percent for a 50-year project time horizon and an EIRR of 13.2 percent for a 30-year time horizon.
In addition to the direct benefits, there are indirect benefits resulting from increased trade
(brought about by the roads). The indirect benefits in this type of project frequently outweigh the
direct benefits; when included in the analysis of this project, the EIRR rises to 32 percent.

3.3.2 A key objective of the project was to improve food security. A target diet of 2,100 calories
per day equates to rice production of 212 kg per person per year. By way of an example, in
Kontum rice production was reported to have increased from 3.0 tons/ha to 4.5 tons/ha, each
hectare being able to provide food for 21 people compared to only 14 people before the project.
(This estimate does not consider losses from harvesting and processing.)

3.3.3 Most agricultural interventions were successful, including those aimed at existing farm
practices (especially rice and cassava production) and at new crops (e.g., bamboo shoots and
mulberries). The increase in profits determined from field interviews ranged from 100 to 423
percent and were derived both from increased yields and improved prices through better linkages
with markets.

3.3.4 The data show that all four crops represented experienced a significant yield increase. The
yield for cassava was much greater in areas with good growing conditions (up to 100 percent).
The data also calculates a ratio to measure the change in local prices compared to market prices.
For the four crops, the local price rose faster than the market price, indicating an improved selling
position for farmers. The increase in local cassava prices was most dramatic, brought about both
by better market access (especially roads) and improved quality from the newly-introduced
cassava variety.

3.3.5 Indirect benefits will be achieved through increased agricultural incomes in the project
area which feed into increased local employment and production of locally-produced goods. In
addition, increased trade will result in a multiplication of benefits. The experience from other
countries is that these indirect multiplier benefits usually exceed the increase in direct agricultural
benefits. If a conservative estimate is adopted that the indirect benefits are 1.2 times the direct
benefits, it can be seen that the project has had very significant economic impacts in the region.



                                                   17

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1 The overall outcome is considered to be satisfactory. The objectives of the project were
(and remain) relevant to the country's priorities and the Bank's CASs, and all of the objectives
were fully achieved. In addition, relatively high levels of efficiency and EIRRs have been
achieved from the project's interventions. As described in Annex 1, most of the target values for
the PDO indicators and Intermediate Outcome Indicators were reached (and in some cases
exceeded).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 Poverty impact. The project had significant positive social impacts, particularly on
poverty reduction in the poorest areas (where populations previously faced food security
problems), increasing household incomes, improving rates of literacy, improving health and
sanitation, creating employment opportunities and increasing the participation of ethnic minority
groups.

3.5.2 Ethnic minority development. There are high populations of ethnic minorities in the
project area and they were specifically targeted by the project as they exhibited the highest levels
of forest dependency, had the smallest land holdings, and were among the most vulnerable to
natural disasters. This preferential support was entirely in line with government policy and was
guided by an Ethnic Minority Development Plan (EMDP) developed by the government prior to
project implementation. The project assisted in particular in agricultural intensification for the
ethnic minorities and provided direct support (10 kg rice/person/month) during periods of rice
shortage to reduce the need for the recipient households to extract forest products to pay for rice.
The capacity of ethnic minority groups was improved; this was reflected through the level of their
participation and involvement in project activities (e.g., PRA/CAP meetings, agricultural training,
supervising activities and service delivery at village level) and their awareness of needs for forest
protection as part of an integrated land-use system has increased (e.g., participating in land-use
planning, receiving forest protection contracts, and signing and following the conservation
agreement).

3.5.3 Gender aspects. With the effort made by the project, women's participation in project
activities increased but is still relatively low (e.g., only 10-20 percent of attendees at CAP
meetings and training were women). Female participation in decision-making also remained low.
This is linked with social and cultural dimensions which lie outside the scope of the project. The
project faced major constraints: for example, most ethnic minority women lacked confidence and
education to participate and they had little time to do so, given the demands of household duties.
Realistically, achieving gender equity and behavioral changes will take time. However, the
project made a particular effort to ensure that LURCs issued for land allocation included the
names of both husband and wife. The project was one of the first in Vietnam to insist upon this,
and was successful in this respect in all provinces except one (Binh Phuoc). This is a significant
achievement.




                                                    18

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.4 Commune planning and other rural development approaches developed by the project
were promoted by some provinces for use in other government programs. All provinces
promoted the approaches within new development projects (e.g., the Forests for Livelihood
Improvement in the Central Highlands project supported by the ADB in Lam Dong, and the
French-funded project planned for Tran Phu forest in Dong Nai) and they have been incorporated
into project design in other southern provinces (e.g., through KfW7).

3.5.5 In PA management planning, project approaches and lessons learned have been adopted in
developing management plans for other PAs (e.g., Bu Gia Map NP in Binh Phuoc, where a
donor-funded project is required to support this). At the central level, capacity building through
the project is expected to be absorbed within strategic planning for the Central Highlands region.

3.5.6   Capacity building and staff training at different levels will, in the long term, help make
changes at different levels of the government's administration on ways of planning and linking
conservation and development activities which help address the conflicts of forest protection and
biodiversity conservation with livelihood improvement for local poor around the PAs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.7 Provision of rural credit. The need to provide credit to farmers to enable them to
develop the land allocated to them was recognized during project design. However, the
expectation that VBARD would provide credit to farmers for the development of allocated forest
land did not materialize. While VBARD will accept LURCs as collateral for commercial loans,
some poor farmers were not able to meet other requirements. Although recognizing these
constraints to poor farmers, the project decided not to attempt to intervene in the lending policy
or the appraisal procedures of VBARD because it would distort the rural credit market.
Consequently, small farmers who were allocated forest land had difficulties in generating the
necessary funds to invest in the land.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1 There was no beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop carried out under the project.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

4.1.1 Despite the fact that the project had positive impacts on poverty and thereby: (a) reduced
forest resources dependency in the poorest areas; and (b) established the initial linkages between
forest protection/biodiversity conservation and livelihood development at local levels, the early
achievements are still fragile and need to be maintained and strengthened. The risk to the
development outcome is considered to be "Substantial". This is generally true for most
conservation and development projects which often require time and consistent efforts to create a
sustainable impact. The government (at the central and provincial level) and donors, therefore,
should adopt and build on these early successes of the project through future development
projects/programs in the area. In particular, the issues and recommendations mentioned in
Section 2.5 (Post-completion Operation/Next Phase) should be followed.




                                                 19

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.1 A "Quality at Entry" review was carried out by the Quality Assurance Group which rated
the project as "satisfactory", based on: (a) the standard of the pre-appraisal and appraisal: the
project preparation documents of the government were appraised by the Bank missions with full
diligence, and the identified project interventions were of priority to the country and to the CAS;
and (b) readiness: all required documents (i.e., the project implementation manual, resettlement
framework, the EMDP) were thoroughly prepared by the government, reviewed by the Bank and
ready at negotiations; these documents were of key importance to project implementation. In the
opinion of the ICR team, the quality of the project design would have been significantly enhanced
with better projections of the demand for support for land allocation (issuing LURCs) and forest
protection contracts in the buffer zone and for the SSP. There were, as a result, minor
shortcomings in ensuring Quality at Entry which indicate a rating of "moderately satisfactory".

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.2 The frequency of supervision missions was increased when circumstances demanded it,
and the exercise of fiduciary responsibilities was accompanied by a significant level of technical
dialogue between IDA and the implementing agencies in solving problems as they arose. There
were moderate shortcomings in the identification of opportunities and the resolution of problems.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.3 Based on the Quality at Entry of the project and the Bank's role in ensuring it, and on the
proactive nature of supervision, the overall Bank performance is considered to have been
moderately satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.1   The government's performance in supporting project implementation in general was
moderately satisfactory, particularly in taking measures to improve implementation performance.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




                                                  20

Implementing Agency:           Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development

Performance:                   The implementing agency was good at following up on actions
                               recommended by IDA supervision missions. In general, there were
                               only moderate shortcomings in its performance.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.2    The Overall Borrower Performance is considered to have been moderately satisfactory,
based on its performance during both preparation and implementation, and with specific reference
to:

(a) Successful decentralization: after the initial slow start-up, MARD delegated more authority to
the provinces (in 2001 and 2003) which accelerated project implementation and disbursement.
This was the key to successful implementation in the second half of the project's life.

(b) Cooperation with the Bank team: the concerned ministries, central agencies and
implementing agencies cooperated closely with the Bank during project implementation and
supervision. Most of the actions agreed during supervision missions or recommended in audit
and procurement ex post review reports were followed up in a satisfactory manner or
implemented (although in some cases with significant delays).



6. Lessons Learned

The major lessons learned from the project are:

6.1 For future integrated conservation and development projects:

(a) The project design incorporated three critical lessons learned from earlier ICDPs; they are the
need to explicitly link conservation commitments with development activities; the importance of
involving local communities (CAP process); and the need to include the entire buffer zone rather
than a few selected communities to have a significant impact in halting encroachment. These
design features were essential to the achievement of the project development objectives.

(b) The project has demonstrated that by linking and sequencing of conservation and
development activities, the local community were more committed to the conservation goal.
However, the sequencing of activities starting with the conservation activities and CDD planning
meant that disbursement was slow during the first few years of implementation. This is at odds
with donor agencies' need to disburse funds, whether grant- or credit-derived.

6.2 For the forestry sector in Vietnam:

(a) Linking forest protection with rural development is a more effective approach to protection of
critical forest areas than relying on enforcement alone. This has been demonstrated under the
FPRD that effective protection of CTNP and CMRNP has gone hand in hand with poverty
reduction (the poverty rate in the project area was reduced by 50 percent on average). However,
this approach requires skills and expertise which the foresters lack and requires coordination and



                                                  21

communication among different sector agencies. Unless integration is institutionalized, the
impact of project intervention is less sustainable.

(b) The use of the CAPs is a good example of participatory planning and has assisted village- and
commune-level staff to comprehend their rights within a "bottom-up" planning process. The
process is a model for local authorities in collecting and analyzing planning information, and is
worthy of wide replication. However, the participatory processes require adequate capacity at the
implementing agencies and at local levels, especially in procurement and financial
management. Providing training to local institutions and communities at the earliest stage is
important.

6.3 For project management in general:

(a) With the project design and implementation involved local community's participation,
decentralization and delegation of approval to provincial level was critical to the
success. Providing training to the PPMUs on procurement and financial management at the
earliest stage is important.

(b) For ICDP projects engaging community's participation, there should be more than one Mid-
term Review and the first MTR should be carried out in Year 2 to take stock, identify, and
address potential problems at early stages. A delay in the timing of the MTR frequently results in
an extension of the project's completion date and of the Credit's closing date.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

7.1.1 A summary of the Borrower's Completion Report is included in this ICR in Annex 7. The
Borrower has rated both the project's design and implementation as "satisfactory" for both the
Bank and Borrower. The ICR team has concluded that, on balance, the Bank's performance in
ensuring Quality at Entry and in supervising the project, as well as the government's and the
implementing agency's performance, should be described as "moderately satisfactory".

(b) Co-financiers

7.2.1    The comments from the Embassy of The Netherlands raised issues on project design. In
particular, the design is thought to be weak in relation to support for, and integration with,
national-, provincial- and local-level planning and development processes, especially for the
components that seek to support land allocation and forest protection contracts in the buffer zones.

7.2.2 According to the ICR Team's assessment, the linkages with the government and provincial
programs were foreseen by the preparation team and have been included in project design.
Because of the slow start-up, the provinces decided not to wait and proceeded with financing a
significant part of land allocation and forest protection contracts using the available government
funds. In fact, this was an acceptable solution to achieve the project objectives.

7.2.3 The overall land allocation process achieved its main objective of ensuring that all land in
the buffer zones has legal owners. Regarding the forest protection objective, forest violations in
CTNP and CMRNR have reportedly been reduced significantly over time in both scale and



                                                  22

degree of severity, and no large-scale forest fires have occurred. The regeneration of natural
forest in the PAs is rapidly occurring.

7.2.4 With delays in project implementation, the ICR team agreed that the quality of the project
design would have been significantly enhanced with better projection of the demand for support
for land allocation (issuing LURCs) and forest protection contracts in the buffer zone and for the
SSP. The ICR team agreed to rate the quality of project design as "moderately satisfactory".

7.2.5 On the slowness in selection of TA, the ICR team agrees with the comments of the
Embassy of The Netherlands. Regardless of the causes, the Government of Vietnam should pay
special attention to expedite the selection of international consultants in all ODA projects.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

7.3.1 There were no comments received.




                                                  23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component



              Components                 Appraisal Estimate   Actual      Percentage of
                                           (US$ million)    (US$ million)  Appraisal
Protected Area Management                       3.38            1.67          49.4
Community Planning                              0.70            0.36          51.4
Land Allocation                                 1.97            0.69          35.0
Social Support Program                          3.16            8.96         283.5
Agricultural Support Services                   2.67            2.03          76.0
Buffer Zone Forest Management                  3.14             1.79          57.0
Rural Infrastructure Development                9.92           12.96         130.6
Project Management and Institutional
Development                                     3.90            7.44         190.8

Total Baseline Cost                           28.84            35.90
Physical Contingencies                          0.93
Price Contingencies                             2.52
Total Project Costs                           32.29            35.90
Front-end fee PPF                               0.00            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00            0.00

Total Financing Required                      32.29            35.90


(b) Financing



                                               Appraisal
       Source of Funds          Type of Co-                    Actual     Percentage of
                                 financing      Estimate     (US$ million) Appraisal
                                             (US$ million)
International Development
Association (IDA)                                 21.50        23.50         109.3

Netherlands: Dutch Trust Fund                      5.00          6.50        130.0




                                           24

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Protected Area Management for the CMRNR

2.1 The key outputs of this component were:

(a) The project assisted conservation management planning at CMRNR through the development
of a comprehensive management plan to international standards. The planning approach focused
on operational aspects and requirements for species and habitat conservation in line with the role
of a National Park. During implementation, the Nature Reserve was up-graded by the
government to a National Park.

(b) The project supported the bio-diversity surveys in the southern part of the CMRNR which led
to an expansion of the boundary to include an additional 7,963 ha with high bio-diversity values.
Implementation of the management plan, in general, was on track and of a satisfactory standard
although there was room for improvement in certain aspects. Among the important achievements
were the boundary demarcation for the Park and the development of ranger patrolling regimes to
improve forest and bio-diversity protection.

(c) A comprehensive public awareness campaign was developed and satisfactorily implemented
for the CMRNR buffer zone to enhance the sustainability of project interventions by continuing
to encourage public involvement in conservation activities.

(d) A number of research studies and surveys was carried out which provided a level of base-line
information that has been incorporated into bio-diversity and human impact monitoring and
evaluation.

(e) An extensive training program for CMRNR staff was developed, some of which has been
carried out. The capacity of CMRNR staff in relation to conservation has been significantly
improved.

(f) The project financed the construction of the Head Quarters Office and the up-grading of the
access road to the CMRNR.

Component 2: Buffer Zone Development

Sub-component 2(a): Community Development Planning

2.2 The key outputs of this sub-component were:

(a) The project supported community development planning for 43 project communes (originally
40 communes) through participatory processes to prepare integrated CAPs which addressed both
forest protection and rural development objectives. The PRA and CAP processes were of high
quality because they involved all local people including women and ethnic minorities. It also
should be noted that this new planning approach ("bottom-up" planning) had never been applied
in the project area before, and it has been welcomed strongly by all stakeholders.




                                                25

(b) To facilitate and monitor the quality of the processes, Commune Advisory Groups (CAGs)
were established to work among villages to facilitate the processes of the PRA and the
preparation of CAPs. Commune Working Groups (CWGs) were also established at commune
level, with representatives from stakeholders, as a primary tool to support implementation of
project activities at the commune level. These arrangements appeared effective in ensuring
quality and engaging local people. The capacity of local communities has been enhanced through
the participatory processes.

Sub-component 2(b): Land Allocation

2.3 The key outputs of this sub-component were:

(a) The project supported the allocation of 26,237 ha of forest land to 11,113 local households
with long-term land use right certificates (LURCs).

(b) The issuance if LURCs has helped in controlling migration into the project area, increasing
social stability, improving access to institutional credit and promoting sustainable land use. In
most cases, the issuance of LURCs served to legalize de facto ownership and provided long-term
secure rights for the land traditionally or socially already belonging to the individual farmers.
There was little or no redistribution of land among farmers, with the exception of some cases
where SFEs' land was taken back (as a result of inefficient management) and reallocated to
farmers. On the whole, the process was participatory and voluntary among all stakeholders. The
overall land allocation process achieved its main objective of ensuring that all land in the buffer
zones has legal owners. Preliminary monitoring data show that implementation of the land
allocation program has significantly reduced the level of migration into the project area. With
secure long-term land use rights, farmers have also invested more in their land through adopting
advanced agro-forestry farming models introduced by the project.

Sub-component 2(c): Social Support Program

2.4 The key outputs of this sub-component were:

(a) The project financed the construction and up-grading of over 2,000 small rural schemes (e.g.,
household water supply, schools, clinics, intra-commune roads) and provided direct support to
local poor communities (i.e., provision of farming materials and training) for "food security"
improvement to improve their livelihoods and income opportunities for the rural poor and forest
dependants. Implementation of this sub-component was based on the results of the PRAs/CAPs
and in collaboration with local institutions. It was rated as "highly satisfactory", based on the
reported poverty reduction rates in the project area.

(b) Significant poverty reduction was achieved in the project area. In Kontum province, the
number of poor households was reduced by 40-50 percent (according to the old criteria of
MOLISA); in Lam Dong, poverty was reduced by about 80 percent; in Dong Nai by about 60-70
percent, in Kon Tum by about 60 percent, in Binh Phuoc by about 50 percent, and in Dac Nong
by about 30-40 percent (although this represents an aggregated impact of many projects and
programs). There are many success stories where the project has provided important inputs to
individual farmers.

(c) Most of the funds allocated to the SSP were used for the provision of basic infrastructure that
benefited the whole community (e.g., schools, community wells, electricity systems, small canals



                                                   26

and soil reclamation schemes). A small portion of funds was used to provide direct support to the
poor through the provision of productive materials and inputs, seedlings and training. About
16,000 poor households have benefited from training and support of farming materials. With
clear and visible impact, this sub-component was most appreciated by beneficiaries and local
authorities.

Sub-component 2(d): Agricultural Support Program

2.5 The key outputs of this sub-component were:

(a) In each village of every commune at least two demonstration models were established to link
the technical training and field demonstration. Some 733 training courses were delivered, and
1,904 demonstration sites were established with 23,150 participants. About 16,000 poor
households received training and farming materials for improving their farming practices and
incomes. It is estimated that more than 20,000 farmers in the project area have adopted the
farming models introduced by the project.

(b) Improved yields and farm incomes through the introduction of advanced sustainable farming
models for agriculture and agro-forestry, and increasing public awareness of sustainable farming.
Extension services were delivered using the existing extension systems from the central to
commune levels.

(c) Training courses were conducted in each commune for target beneficiaries (ethnic minority
households), households selected for demonstration sites, and other representative households.
The training courses covered various aspects of agricultural development (including improved
wet rice cultivation and cashew production), livestock rearing, etc. In general, the content of the
training courses was matched to requirements stated by local people and suitable for the locations.

(d) Local people appeared to have put much of the training into practice as indicated by
improved cultivation techniques and adoption of new technologies throughout the project area.
Increases in rice yields ranged from 11 percent for Kon Tum up to 41 percent in Binh Phuoc
(which had the lowest initial reported yields). Cassava yields increased substantially (by over
100 percent in Dong Nai and Dac Nong). Cashews also achieved increased yields, especially in
Binh Phuoc where yield increased by 83 percent. Livestock-raising was also developed
significantly; before the project very few poor households had cattle but livestock ownership
increased to a significant number by the end of the project.

Sub-component 2(e): Forest Management

2.6 The key outputs of this sub-component were:

(a) Improved protection and management of existing natural forests in the buffer zones through
designing and allocating forest protection contracts to households to protect against fire and
outside encroachers and by strengthening the forest guard force at commune level through
establishing commune forest protection groups. A total of 29,806 ha of protection forest were
allocated to 957 local households under forest protection contracts (households were paid
VND50,000 ha/year).

(b) Some 177 training courses on forest protection and conservation activities were organized for
local communities and school pupils, with the participation of over 14,731 people. About 500


                                                27

village meetings on forest protection and conservation activities were organized with the
participation of 40,000 people and about 800 awareness campaigns were conducted with the
participation of 48,000 people. These have helped improve environmental awareness and the
protection capacity of local communities.

(c) Forest violations in CTNP and CMRNR have reportedly been reduced significantly over time
in both scale and degree of severity, and no large-scale forest fires have occurred. The
regeneration of natural forest in the PAs is rapidly occurring.

(d) A pilot study on restructuring of SFEs was successfully carried out to facilitate development
of the government's policy to restructure state enterprises and to improve the management of
remaining natural forests outside the PA. This was among the first to occur in Vietnam. The
results made an important contribution to the continuing dialog with the government on the
restructuring issue, as well as raising awareness among political leaders at the central level.
Results of the study have fed into policy changes undertaken at the central level in relation to SFE
reform.

Sub-component 2(f): Rural Infrastructure

2.7 The key outputs of this sub-component were:

(a) The construction and up-grading of over 60 rural small- and medium-sized schemes after
social, environmental and economic screening for the proposed schemes. They included selected
irrigation systems (through the rehabilitation of secondary canals and the completion of tertiary
and on-farm irrigation facilities) and the construction of new irrigation systems, to increase food
production and food security; the up-grading of selected inter-commune and commune-district
roads within the buffer zones to improve services to rural communities and expand market
opportunities; and improving road access to the headquarters of CTNP and CMRNR to strengthen
PA management.

(b) Most of the schemes constructed were expected to have great positive impact on local
livelihoods, to yield high economic rates of return in the long term and have little adverse impact
on the environment or levels of biodiversity.

Component 3. Project Management and Institutional Development

2.8 The key outputs of this component were:

(a) The capacity of the implementing agencies, especially in project management, was enhanced
with significant improvement being achieved over time. Procurement and financial management,
including audits, were satisfactory at both the central and the provincial levels.

(b) Clear achievements were made in institutional development: commune planning and other
rural development approaches developed by the project have been promoted by some provinces
for uptake within government programs (e.g., Binh Phuoc province has requested these
approaches be absorbed within the 134 and 135 Programs), all provinces have promoted the
approaches in new development projects (such as the Forests for Livelihood Improvement in the
Central Highlands project supported by the ADB in Lam Dong and the French-funded project
planned for Tran Phu forest in Dong Nai), and the approach has made its way into project design
in other southern provinces (e.g., through KfW7).


                                                 28

(c) In the case of PA management planning, project approaches and lessons learned have been
adopted in developing management plans for other PAs, such as Bu Gia Map National Park in
Binh Phuoc (although a donor-funded project would be required to support this). At the central
level, capacity building through the project is expected to be absorbed within strategic planning
for the Central Highlands region.

(d) In Dac Nong province, there is a plan to transform the PPMU into a Forestry Management
Board (FMB) that would manage the 12,529 ha of buffer zone forests. The FMB will sustain
forest protection commitments and continue to supervise the management of the forests as a
cohesive unit. Sustainable funding is expected to be provided by the management of 661
Program contracts, the establishment of water users' groups, and the use of the former PPMU's
capacity and experience to write proposals for further donor funding.

(e) Binh Phuoc province reported its adoption of project agricultural support systems to
restructure the extension service down to commune and village level. At these lower levels, the
system utilizes lead farmers rather than extension employees but the lead farmers will continue to
receive regular training up-dates and information for distribution and will be expected to feed
back information to the district level (especially concerning disease outbreaks, etc.).

(f) In Lam Dong, training delivered to the provincial Forest Protection Department (FPD) and its
involvement in project awareness-raising activities has led to the development of in-house
training courses and the production of materials that are now distributed by the FPD throughout
the province.




                                                 29

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

3.1 Economic Analysis: Methods

3.1.1 The economic analysis of project costs and benefits was originally conducted in 1997 from
an aggregated perspective on the basis that the main benefits of the project were inter-dependent
(i.e., those generated from improved roads (market access), agricultural extension and irrigation
infrastructure). Based on information gained during field visits, an attempt has been made to
demonstrate the benefits in a disaggregated form including agricultural and social support
programs, irrigation infrastructure and roads.

3.1.2 The ex post economic analysis focuses on the benefits arising from:

     · SSPs, further focused on benefits arising from the provision of agricultural inputs,
         agricultural training and demonstration, and road construction.
     · ASPs, including demonstration plots and training.
     · Rural infrastructure, including irrigation and drainage systems and roads.

Agricultural production

3.1.3 The foundation for the calculation of many of the project benefits is agricultural
production. The project affected agricultural production in quantity, diversity and intensity. The
estimated incremental increase in net benefits provides a major component of project benefits.
This section explains the calculation of project impacts on agricultural production.

3.1.4 The area benefited by the project is defined as the irrigated areas affected by the irrigation
and drainage infrastructure. These areas account for benefits from a large portion of the
investment costs. Cropping activities were analyzed for the with- and without-project scenarios.
The cropping patterns were based on data contained in the CAPs, MAT reports, and feasibility
studies, and derived from the field interviews. These generic cropping activities were tailored for
each province to account for different project interventions and agricultural activities. Changes in
cropping activities were developed to reflect changes in crop choice, intensity and yields. Only
agricultural production attributable to impacts from the project was included.

3.1.5 It was assumed that the intensity of rice cultivation increased 1.5 times over the existing
pattern. Increases in rice productivity ranged between 11 percent for Kontum and 41 percent in
Binh Phuoc (which had the lowest initial reported yields). Cassava yields increased substantially,
by over 100 percent in Dong Nai and Dac Nong. Cashew production yields also increased,
especially in Binh Phuoc where yields increased by 83 percent according to one report. Such
high yields were attributable to applying appropriate interventions to crops with a rather low
starting base, making marginal gains relatively easy.

3.1.6 The generic crop activities were assigned to each irrigation and drainage system to
calculate the aggregate net benefits that are assumed to be a product of the "extension-type"
activities under the social and agricultural support activities, the irrigation and drainage
infrastructure, and the construction of roads. For the analysis, an attempt is made to disaggregate
these benefits.




                                                 30

Social support and agricultural support activities

3.1.7 The economic analysis considers that both the social support and agricultural support
activities provided significant benefits. Activities under both components that involved
agricultural training, crop demonstrations, and provision of inputs are considered as "extension-
type" benefits, reflected in increased productivity, diversification and/or product quality. Field
interviews revealed that benefits from training activities were often dependent on the availability
of water. In areas without irrigation systems, productivity increases were quite significant (up to
100 percent in some areas) when rain-fall was adequate but without a reliable source of water
benefits were highly variable. For this economic analysis, the agricultural support and social
support programs are assumed to account for 45 percent of the project benefits attributed to
agriculture.

3.1.8 Benefits arising from the social support civil works are more difficult to measure as they
are dependent upon qualified staff and quality materials (for clinics and schools) and adequate
maintenance (for wells and roads). The expected benefits from the clinics include reduced
disease incidence and shorter duration of illness. This would be reflected in reduced treatment
costs as well as reduced loss of time that could be used for productive activities. The expected
benefits from schools would be in increased income-earning potential. These benefits are not
included in the economic model as data were not readily available.

Irrigation and drainage systems

3.1.9 The construction and rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage systems was a major part of
the infrastructure development component. Irrigation and drainage infrastructures were reviewed
for actual expenditures, irrigation or drainage benefits, and changes in cropping patterns.

3.1.10 Irrigation and drainage infrastructure provides benefits reflected in more stable
agricultural output levels, increased productivity and increased diversification. Several of the
investments provided benefits through increased dam safety which is reflected in a reduction in
expected losses from flood events (including production, assets and life). For the purpose of this
analysis, the irrigation systems were assumed to provide 50 percent of the incremental increase in
net agricultural benefits realized from increased output, based on the knowledge that provision of
irrigation allows areas with single crops to move to double- or even triple-cropping.

3.1.11 The financial and physical sustainability of the irrigation systems was investigated. Most
irrigation systems were completed too recently for management handover to have been finalized.
However, it appears that management will generally be undertaken by district-level irrigation
companies (for systems with a command area of more than 50 ha) and local management (for
irrigation systems with a command area of less than 50 ha). Irrigation and Drainage Management
Companies are state-owned and are supposed to operate in a financially sustainable manner.

Roads

3.1.12 Road construction and up-grading provides benefits in the form of reduced transport costs
(e.g., reduced fuel requirements and lower vehicle maintenance costs) and time savings (equal to
labor wages). Gathering the necessary information requires significant time investment in the
collection of data on traffic patterns and other costs. Project documents describe the primary
benefits from road construction and upgrading as being reflected in increased agricultural trade,
lower transport costs and increased access to social amenities (such as health care and education).



                                                  31

Where roads have been constructed, the number of traders increased, resulting in lower costs for
agricultural inputs and increased prices for marketed output.

3.1.13 An important benefit from road construction is the improved access of farmers to better
markets for their products. Road construction under the project resulted in better access to
markets. The number of traders traveling to the communes and competing to buy farm products
(and selling inputs) increased. This study assumes that an increase of 5 percent in the price of
agricultural outputs is the main benefit from road construction.

3.1.14 The other benefits in time and travel-cost savings were estimated based on the analysis
provided in the feasibility study for the Sa Thay - Highway 14 Road Project, normalized for
distance and number of beneficiaries. This normalized benefit value was applied to the other
roads constructed under the rural infrastructure component. Benefits for inter-hamlet roads
constructed under the social support component are not included as they are distinctly different
from those of the larger roads.

3.1.15 A maintenance plan was estimated for road infrastructure based on data from in the Sa
Thay ­ Highway 14 Project feasibility study. The annual maintenance cost is 0.55 percent of the
total investment cost. Major reinvestments are assumed to be equal to 45 percent of total
investment costs and are applied every 15 years.

Forest products

3.1.16 A main justification of the project is that increased agricultural production will supplant
the need to harvest forest products. Data on household forest extraction activities was
unavailable. The primary benefit households received was through the forest protection contracts
which paid households VND50,000/ha/year. This is widely perceived as both insufficient to
motivate proper protection and unsustainable because it relies on government funding and the
effective distribution of these funds.

3.1.17 Rubber plantations provide a significant increase in income, although there is a six-year
development period between planting and the initial income generation. At the time of this report,
no farmers interviewed were yet harvesting rubber although several had planted rubber trees.

3.2 Economic Analysis: Results

3.2.1 The benefits of the project focus exclusively on the agricultural output directly affected by
the irrigation infrastructure. Because of concerns about sustainability, especially for re-
investment costs for the infrastructure, economic results were calculated for both 30-year and 50-
year time horizons. The original analysis (from the SAR of 1997) used a 50-year time horizon.
However, without sufficient clarity in the financial and maintenance sustainability for the
infrastructure, the 30-year time horizon is probably more appropriate.

Aggregate economic impacts

3.2.2 The aggregate benefits are presented in Table 1. The costs and benefits are assumed to
remain constant from 2007 onwards except for the major reinvestments in road infrastructure.
The results of the analysis show an EIRR of 13.7 percent for a 50-year project time horizon and
13.2 percent for a 30-year time horizon.




                                                 32

3.2.3 In addition to the direct benefits, there are multiplier benefits resulting from increased
trade (brought about by the roads). These benefits, mostly local trade, usually outweigh the direct
benefits. When included in the model, the EIRR rises to 32 percent. These benefits are difficult
to estimate and not included in the economic model presented above. These indirect benefits are
discussed later.

                           Table 1. Results of the Economic Analysis

                       1999     2000   2001     2002    2003     2004       2005     2006     2007
  Investments
  Agriculture and
  social support ­
  civil works               0      0   1,042   1,173  12,778     15,217     44,333        0      0
  Agriculture and
  social support -
  materials, goods
  and training           193       0     318   3,981    3,187    16,575     17,943        0      0
  Irrigation                0      0        0       0   2,717    22,774     34,344   18,875      0
  Roads                     0      0        0       0 33,375      1,162     17,959   9,651      47
  Total                  193       0 1,360 5,153 52,057          55,728 114,579 28,526          47


  Direct Benefits
  Agriculture and
  social support            0      0        0       0       0       318      3,268   12,817  12,817
  Irrigation                0      0        0       0       0       354      3,631   14,241  14,241
  Roads                     0      0        0       0   4,098     4,200      4,904   8,615    8,615
  Total                     0      0        0       0   4,098     4,872     11,804 35,673 35,673

                                            -       -        -                    -
  Net benefits          -193       0 1,360 5,153 47,959         -50,855 102,775      7,147 35,626


  50-Year horizon
  NPV @ 12 percent     35,019
  EIRR (percent)         13.7


  30-Year horizon
  NPV @ 12 percent     27,962
  EIRR (percent)         13.4


Sensitivity analysis

3.2.4 The assumptions include: (a) a reduction in benefits of 20 percent for all categories
analyzed; (b) a reduction in the benefit stream from road infrastructure to only 15 years; and (c)
an extreme case were maintenance fails to be carried reducing the life span of both the irrigation
systems and the road infrastructure to 10 years after completion: this is combined with a 15
percent reduction in both benefits from irrigation and extension-type activities.




                                                  33

                 Table 2. Sensitivity analysis of the results of economic analysis

                                 Agriculture                               EIRR 30     EIRR 50
                                 and social                                 years       years
                                  support         Irrigation     Roads     (percent)   (percent)
 Project benefits reduced,
 percent                           -20.0           -20.0         -20.0        9.9        10.9
 Life of road reduced to 15
 years                               0.0             0.0          0.0        12.7        13.2
 Life of road and irrigation
 infrastructure reduced to 10
 years, plus reductions in
 agricultural benefits, percent    -15.0           -15.0          0.0        10.9        11.6


3.2.5 The results of the sensitivity analysis indicate that benefits from the project are quite
robust. This is a result of the expected duration of the infrastructure (and their associated
benefits) and the fact that many benefits result from the extension-type activities which become
embedded at the household level and are less susceptible to post-project management short-
comings.

Farm household-level impacts on financial status

3.2.6 The impacts of project activities on farm household financial status were highly variable.
This is attributable to many factors, including the wide variety of activities undertaken,
differences in local conditions and connectivity to markets. A key objective of the project was to
improve food security. A target diet of 2,100 calories per day requires rice production of 212 kg
per person per year (at 361 calories per 100 grams of uncooked white rice). As an example, in
Kontum rice production was reported to have increased from 3 tons/ha to 4.5 tons/ha, each ha of
rice providing food for 21 people compared to 14 people before the project. This estimate does
not consider losses from harvesting and processing. It is indicative of the significant impact of
the FPRDP on improving food security.

3.2.7 In terms of household-level financial impacts, agricultural interventions were generally
appropriate, although some demonstrations did not work as intended. Most agricultural
interventions were successful, both those aimed at existing farm practices (rice and cassava
production) as well as innovative new crops (bamboo shoots and mulberry). The rice
interventions included training and the provision of fertilizer and seed for approximately 0.2 ha.
The increase in profit ranged from 100 percent to 423 percent. Increases in profit were mainly
derived from increased yields and improved prices through better linkages with markets.

3.2.8 Improvement in the profit level of cassava ranged from 79 percent to 380 percent, and the
improvement was almost entirely derived from the adoption of a high-yield variety. The
differences in the level of improvement were determined mainly by the quality of soil and
planting conditions.

3.2.9 Representative contribution to financial impacts was drawn from a broader data set. The
results from the analysis of the data are presented in Table 3. All of the four crops represented
experienced a significant yield increase. The yield for cassava was much greater in areas with
good growing conditions (up to 100 percent). For all four crops, the local price rose faster than
the market price, indicating an improved selling situation for the farmers. The increase in local



                                                 34

cassava prices was most dramatic, brought about both by better market access (i.e., roads) and
improved quality from the new cassava variety.

                          Table 3. Impacts on household financial status

                                                                                 Rice ­
                                                 Cassava    Rice ­ Kontum     Binh Phuoc       Cashew
Change in crop yield (percent)                      31            50               70            296
Change in local price:market price ratio            4.2           0.1             1.2            1.0
Change in input costs (percent)                     43            13               54            361


Financial Benefit-Cost ratios
Financial-local prices
     Previous                                      1.86          1.65             0.96           7.61
     Current                                       2.72          2.40             2.95          11.90
Financial - market prices
     Previous                                      5.20          1.88             1.17           8.08
     Current                                       5.44          2.50             3.17          12.37


3.2.10 The data also show that interventions tended to increase the input costs for the project.
Some poorer households reported that they had not increased input usage as suggested for modern
crops as they could not afford them. However, as the profitability is higher this is likely a short-
term financial problem. The largest increase in costs was with cashews, mostly because of the
very low use of inputs before the project.

3.2.11 In terms of financial impacts, there has been a clear improvement. Financial cost/benefit
ratios were calculated at local prices and market prices. Table 3 shows a significant increase in
the profitability of the crops at both local and market prices. Cashews in particular are very
profitable financially, although there are significant economic costs for the farmer's own labor
that are not included in these calculations. The results also indicate that the profitability at market
prices is higher than for local prices. Given that most farmers sell to traders at local prices,
continued improvements in market access have significant additional benefits for the farmers.

3.2.12 Other significant gains to household finances result from the adoption of more innovative
activities such as growing of bamboo shoots and mulberries where revenues are much higher than
from previous crops (such as maize). However, the potential for scaling-up the production of
such crops is limited.

Indirect benefits

3.2.13 Indirect benefits will be achieved through increased agricultural incomes generating
increased local employment and locally-produced goods. Increased trade will result in a
multiplication of benefits. Experience from other countries indicates that indirect multiplier
benefits frequently exceed the increase in direct agricultural benefits.




                                                  35

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
        Names              Title                Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Choeng H. Chung   Consultant               EASRE           Economic Analysis
Robert D. Crooks  Consultant               EASRE           Environment
Carlos Ricardo
Escudero          Lead Counsel             LEGEA           Legal Agreements

Gaye P. Lindsey   Consultant               LOADR           Disbursement
Lars C. Lund      Senior Social Scientist  EASSO           Social Development

Thang Chien NguyenSenior Procurement
                  Specialist               EAPCO           Procurement

Susan S. Shen     Senior Natural Resources                 Project
                  Management Specialist    EASRE           Management/Environment
Roland Van Asch   Consultant               EACCF           Rural Development

Supervision/ICR

Binh Thang Cao    Senior Operations
                  Officer                  EASRE           Proj Man./Buffer zone

Vinh Quoc Duong   Consultant               EACIF           Environment
Quyen Do Duong    Finance Analyst          LOAG1           Disbursement
Ross Hughes       Consultant               EASRE           Biodiversity Conservation

Hung Viet Le      Financial Management
                  Specialist               EAPCO           Financial Management

Lars C. Lund      Senior Social Scientist  EASSO           Social Development
Thang Minh Nguyen Consultant               EASRE           Construction Management

Hoa Thi Mong Pham Senior Social
                  Development Spec         EASSO           Social Development

Ulrich K. H. M.   Natural Resources
Schmitt           Economist                EASRE           NRM/M&E

Susan S. Shen     Lead Natural
                  Management Specialist    EASRE           TTL/ Project Management

Kien Trung Tran   Senior Procurement
                  Specialist               EAPCO           Procurement

Thong Quang Tran  Financial Management
                  Specialist               EAPCO           Financial Management

Paula J Williams  Consultant               EASES           Social Forestry




                                          36

b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

           Stage of Project Cycle                              US$ thousand
                                         Staff weeks        (including travel and
                                                              consultant costs)

Lending
                   FY94                                             20.64
                   FY95                                             53.19
                   FY96                                             87.59
                   FY97                                            130.61
                   FY98                                             20.61
                   FY99                                              0.00
                   FY00                                              0.07
                   FY01                                              0.00
                   FY02                                              0.00
                   FY03                                              0.00
                   FY04                                              0.00
                   FY05                                              0.00
                   FY06                                              0.00
                   FY07                                              0.00
Total:                                                             312.71

Supervision/ICR
                   FY94                                              0.00
                   FY95                                              0.00
                   FY96                                              0.00
                   FY97                                              0.00
                   FY98                                             46.69
                   FY99                                             46.24
                   FY00                        31                   53.18
                   FY01                        15                   16.26
                   FY02                        25                   54.26
                   FY03                        33                   54.86
                   FY04                        18                   39.84
                   FY05                        20                   62.03
                   FY06                        16                   93.59
                   FY07                         8                   32.19
Total:                                        166                  499.14




                                     37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No beneficiary survey has been carried out.




                                            38

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No stakeholder workshop was held for the project.




                                             39

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR



Note: Comments on the draft ICR were received from MARD on November 29, 2006. MARD
agreed with the evaluation of project impact, effectiveness, and output results. The Inspection
Department of MARD carried out independent checks both at desk review and field visits for
about two and half months and concluded that the project was successfully completed and
benefited the local people, especially the poor and minorities. According to the comments,
project implementation could be divided into distinct periods. In the first three and a half years,
the capacity of both Vietnam and the Bank Team was limited in handling the difficulties, but it
was improved in the remaining period. Overall, MARD rated project design to be "moderately
satisfactory" and implementation by both the Borrower and the Bank to be "satisfactory".




                                                  Document of
                       Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Project

                                   Implementation Completion Report
                      for the Forest Protection and Rural Development Project



          - ODA Fund:                                                   15.900 million SDR
            (original equivalent to 21.5 million USD)
          - Netherlands Trust Fund:                                      5.675 million Euro
             (original equivalent to 5.174 million USD
          - Vietnamese Counterpart Fund:                                 6.961million USD
              (original equivalent to 5.616 million USD)




                                               November 2006


Restricted distribution only and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
        may not otherwise be disclosed without Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development authorization.




  Head of National Steering Committee                Mr. Hua Duc Nhi, Vice Minister of MARD
  Head of Standing Committee                         Mr. Le Van Minh, Director of the ICD
  National Project Director                           Mr. Trinh Kim Thanh




                                                         40

1. Basic data:



1.1 Key dates

                          Context                           Date of effect   Completion date

IDA Credit                                                January 9, 1998
Netherlands Trust Fund                                    January 9, 1998
Closing Day                                                                  June 30, 2006
Deadline for Application                                                     October 31, 2006



1.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators



     Implementation Performance        Indicators    QAG Assessments (if any) Rating:


 Potential Problem Project at any time                                          Moderately
 (Yes/No):                                 No        Quality at Entry (QEA)     Satisfactory
                                                     Quality of Supervision
 Problem Project at any time (Yes/No):     No        (QSA)                      None
 DO rating before Closing/Inactive
 status:                               Satisfactory



 1.3 Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)              Original Priority       Actual Priority

 Export development and competitiveness              Secondary              Secondary
 Participation and civic engagement                  Secondary              Primary
 Other rural development                             Secondary              Primary
 Biodiversity                                         Primary               Primary
 Land administration and management                   Primary               Primary




1.4 Performance rating by ICR



Outcome:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to development outcome:                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory




                                           41

2. Project Context, Development Objectives and Beneficiaries at Project Design

2.1 General context: (i) Context at project design approval as in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), however, (ii) with the additional context of recent years for Central Highland particular
and Vietnam in general: Life of resident has been significantly improved, but still forest
intrusion is increasing, and the question is: how or what happened if the conflict
between Conservation and Development has not yet been addressed, how handle
without effective and suitable approach!

2.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

2.2.1 The overall objective (global objective) of the project was to assist the government to
protect and manage natural forests with high biodiversity. To contribute to the achievement of
this goal, the project had four development objectives: (a) the protection of the Cat Tien National
Park (CTNP) and the protection and management of the Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve
(CMRNR); (b) the management of natural forests with high biodiversity outside the Protected
Areas (PAs) but inside the buffer zones of the CTNP and the CMRNR; (c) the development of the
livelihoods of the residents in the buffer zones to reduce their dependency on the CTNP and the
CMRNR for subsistence and cash incomes; and (d) the strengthening of government capacity to
design, implement and monitor Integrated Conservation and Development Projects (ICDPs).

2.2.2 The Key Performance Monitoring Indicators approved:

   Development                 Impact Indicator                          Output Indicator
      Objective
        (a)         Reduced incidence of: (i) illegal         An increased number of people in the
                    harvesting and transport of PA forest     buffer zones aware of conservation values
                    products to approach zero; and (ii)       in the PA: GoV staff/NGOs 100 percent;
                    unwarranted fire by 50 percent            farmer households 70 percent; youths and
                                                              students 80 percent
        (b)         Forest cover in buffer zones increased by 100 percent of forest land in buffer zones
                    10 percent and barren land decreased by   to be allocated owners
                    50 percent
        (c)         Proportion of people facing food          100 percent of households in the buffer
                    insecurity reduced by 25 percent and the  zones to have Land Use Rights
                    proportion of conservation agreements     Certificates ("red books"), and 100
                    violated or abrogated to be below 5       percent of the area of the buffer zones to
                    percent                                   be allocated.
        (d)         The extent to which the approach is       Commune Action Plans approved for 37
                    incorporated into government policies     communes and three towns.
                    and programs for forest protection.

2.2.3 There were no changes made to the PDOs or the Key Indicators (impact indicators, process
indicators, outcome indicators and performance indicators) during project implementation

2.2.4 No change to objectives of components and sub-components. (Component and sub-
component: see Table 1.)




                                                   42

2.3 Main Beneficiaries (no change)

2.3.1 Three main beneficiaries were: (a) the PA Management Boards through improving their
capacity and efficiency; (b) the poor and poorest populations and minorities and local resident in
project areas; and (c) the central and local government bodies through improving their
institutional and administrative capacity.

3. Key factors impact on implementation and Outcome

3.1 Some basic justification

3.1.1 Some justification of funds and scope of sub-component Land Allocation, Forest
protection and Social support Grant. Some critical social and economic changes happened in
project area during project appraisal and implementation. The project has been extended for 2
(two) years. At the time of appraisal, (i) expected land for allocation rather high, about 80,000ha;
however, smaller land forest area allocated (26,237ha for 11,113 household) and red-book issued
under project fund, because the provision of land use certificate for accommodation and
agriculture finished and/or is mostly implementing by other government and provincial
programme (state fund); and (ii) Similarly, about 90,000ha ha of protection forest at the time of
appraisal planned to allocate to households under forest protection, however, in fact, only about
29,806ha allocated by project, the remaining area managed by Protection forest management
board and State owned enterprise ­ the Provincial people Committee issued decision for forest
management and used the government fund of 661 programme. (The land use planning set up by
the project and approved: Total area of special use forest and protection forest area is 200,172 ha,
including 128,754 ha managed by National parks, State owned enterprise and Protection forest
management Boards directly manage 41,612 ha using fund of 661 programme, and 29,806 ha for
forest protection contracts with the households funded by the project). The sub-component Social
support Grant has been supplemented with the fund increase from 3.4 million USD to 8.96
million USD.

3.1.2 Reason for reallocation of project cost. Droughts and floods happened during project
implementation (in year 2003, 25/43 communes and in year 2006, 18/43 communes flooded),
resulted in miserable condition for poor people, therefore the need for social support programme
is higher due to actual requirement. Besides, the number of communes increased from 40 to 43
during project implementation (re-demarcation); also there are 9 additional district working
groups, and the international consultant contract received millions of USD, resulted in a
considerable increase of recurrent cost. Budget in USD increased during implementation period
was due to fluctuation in exchange rate of USD and the Special drawing right (SDR) and more
counterpart fund from Provinces, therefore the total project cost rose from 32.3 million USD to
35.9 million USD. The gain, savings from other sub component (Land allocation and forest
protection) and un-located fund was used for social support programme to improve livelihood for
most poor and ethnic minorities in project area. In addition to small civil works for social support,
the project set priority to location of poor households, local ethnic minorities, those who also
directly benefited from technical transference and social and agricultural supply (original 0.425
million USD, account for 12 % of SSG -Fund, implemented about 2.501 million US$ six-fold,
account for 27.8 % of SSG Fund).




                                                 43

                         Table 1: Budget for component (million US$)

                          Item                              Original  Revised     Implemented         %
                             1                                  2         3                4        5=(4)/(3)
 Component 1: PA management.                                  2,540     1,667            1,964        98
 Component 2: Buffer zone Development                        24,520    26,791           26,100        97
    (a) Community development planning                        0,720     0,351            0,350        100
    (b) Land allocation                                       2,050     0,694            0,690        99
   (c) Social support program (SSP)                           3,480     8,961            8,860        99
   (d) Agricultural support services                          2,820     2,03             1,950        96
   (e) Forest management                                      3,420     1,788            1,750        98
   (f) Rural infrastructure (RI)                             12,030   12,964 [1]        12,500        96
 Component 3: Project management and                          5,200    7,442 [2]         7,260        98
 institutional development
       (a) Up to October 31, 2006                             5,200     7,442             7,260       98

       (b) From November. 2006 to June 30, 2007                           416              416        100

 Total project cost                                          32,290    36,316           35,000        96

Note: 1. Including US$1.35 million added by provincial counterpart fund and used for land and crop
          compensation.
      2. Including the value of international consultant contract.

3.2 Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes;

There are two kinds for (i) Affect on quality and (ii) Affect on progress and time for activities

3.2.1 Project design /quality of input/ Progress and Time for implementation

3.2.1.1 Positive impacts of project design: The design of project drew experience from previous
ICDPs, got positive impact on quality of activities. The context of the main activities in
components and sub-components remained unchanged during implementation, and the still
clearly reflected development and conservation aims. The close relationship between
Conservation and Development presented in all activities and their context were designed under
supervision of Impact Indicators, Outcome Indicators and Process Indicators. This is the
encouraging success of project design which shall be widen.

3.2.1.2 Negative impacts of project design, mainly the factors affect progress and time for
implementation. The project location is in remote area, poor people and many local ethnic
minorities. Limited capability of local communities has been mentioned. However, risk
management on project progress and time for implementation of each activity in particular and of
the whole project in general, is hardly described in project design, because of the ambitiousness
of time, in detail:

· The kind of ICDPs is a rather complex with high social context project, but not mentioned to
"the harmony" of procedures between Donors and Viet Nam in order to control the progress and
time for project implementation.
· Activities have pressure on maintained linkage between Development and Conservation: not
fully mention in the period after project closed.
· The training plan for entities and local communities in the first stage of participation (PRA,
CAP and SSP) at project preparation.


                                                     44

· In the design, the time for start of preparation for Rural infrastructure implementation hadn't
been warned (commencement of pre-feasibility report, feasibility report and compensation plan)
· Require a better forecast on the need of support for land allocation (issue land use certificate),
forest protection contracts and social support plan (SSP).
· Unclear orientation for natural forest in buffer zone which is planned for production purpose
· The Trust fund agreement has not mentioned the cost for training which is rather important for
Chu Mom Ray National Park
· Civil works are limited in 20,000 USD investment for each scheme is unpractical and result in
low investment effectiveness.
· The complexity and difficulty in remote area: not fully mention the minimum time for
activities

3.2.1.3 Because of the above reason, the project has to extend for another 2 (two) years. (this is
considered as a limitation; refer to the project design for project funded by the Germany )

3.2.2 Main impacts in implementation

3.2.2.1 General idea. The project is evaluated as satisfactory. Project development objectives
(PDOs) have been met. The natural forest with high biodiversity in the two Parks and in the
buffer zones was effectively protected. At the same time, the project has implemented the
investment for rural development, example, there are 1,321 training courses of all kinds with
participation of 40.645 men/day, 2,332 advanced sustainable models for agriculture and agro-
forestry has been completed, technical training for 16,152 poor and ethnic households has been
implemented, 21,516 m2 for all kind of houses have been constructed, upgraded the road of 475
km, 28 irrigation schemes have been invested with irrigation area of 2,743 ha...

The project implementation can be divided for two Stages as below:

3.2.2.2 Stage I. From 1998 to December/2001 (the first 3.5 year, mid term review
November/2001). This is a difficult time for project. Project implementation has been hampered
by (i) important issues have not been mentioned and/or not been warned in project design; (ii)
project is rather complex, both WB side (except financial management, accountant and
procurement) and Vietnam side seem to be incapable to handle the said above deficiencies, (for
example late arrival of international consultant, late agreement on project context resulted in
undue CAP completion, or changed to priority level for community participator discipline from
level 2 (design) to level 1 (implementation), especially rural infrastructure schemes are not
allowed in this period, even for preparation only (in mid 2000, PPMU and PMU have proposed
start for preparation).

It is the fact that WB-funded forestry project are all complicated and late implementation as
described above and lead to an end that a huge pressure has been created on all PPMU and PMU
(for example Wet land project in the South of Viet Nam WB2, and recently Forestry sector
development project WB3).

It is noted that decentralization of power is only one of measure to improve progress, it can not
fix all the late periods due to the above serious problems (for example, in this stage, most actions
have been decentralized for provinces, except sub-component RI because of the lack of
preparation, and decentralization at internal central level ­MRAD and PMU).




                                                  45

These are only main causes lead to project extension for two years to fulfill development
objectives (and mainly focus on RI completion, therefore increase the recurrent cost)

3.2.2.3 Stage 2, from January/2002 to June/2006 (4.5 years). Although the overall progress
has been significantly improved, but sub-component RI has not started yet, and there come a
rumor: WB will not continue to invest in this component, and some schemes have been changed
to invest by another source of fund. To mid 2002, the first move for preparation has allowed,
therefore cause a great and greater pressure of time. Moreover, natural disasters such as draught
and flood are much heavy and more frequent in project area, directly affect project progress. In
the middle and the end of this stage, the last three years: project implementation has been
improved, especially for SSP (the extra 5 million USD) and RI. Although there are some changes
in the procurement policy of WB in this stage, but the disbursement still rapidly increase in the
end of project. Disbursement of IDA reach 106% as by disbursement plan in USD and 97% as by
Special drawing right (SDR). Disbursement of Trust fund reach 122,4% as by disbursement plan
designed in USD, or 86,7 % after supplemented (The Netherlands grant another one million Euro
for Technical assistance in the extension time and cover the shortage of exchange rate between
Netherlands Guilder and USD). The National Steering Committee (NSC) has formed a standing
group as a representative. This group is small and neat and rather dynamic to handle all arising
problems, shows the responsibility of consultant for Chairman of NSC, therefore, progress has
been pushed forward. (In this group, Director of the ICD of MARD is group leader, other
members are leaders and staff of other relating agencies in MARD usually 4, 5 members depend
on each case). The project also has effort in anti-collusion. Some case has been discovered so
far (5 cases in total of 1,558 contracts). And 22 contractors have been banned to participate in
bidding during project time. Their name also be advertised as collusion bidder on national papers,
MARD and MPI announcement as well as on other mass media. This is the first time that anti-
collusion actions have been taken seriously in those provinces.

4. Impact evaluation.

4.1 The conformity of project objectives, design and implementation

4.1.1 All objectives of project have remained unchanged during project life and completely
suitable to "root level democracy" process of the Government on conservation management and
social development. Project objective also in accordance with Social economic development
strategy 2001 ­ 2010 (SEDS),Master plan on growth and poverty reduction, Strategy
orientation on sustainable development (National agenda 21), and National strategy for
environment protection (NSEP)

4.1.2 These objectives are conformity with current National support strategy for Viet Nam, in
which the relation between conservation and social development in Central highland and the
country has been stressed.

4.2 Project implementation on development objectives

4.2.1 The project has completed the overall development objective to support the Government in
management and protection for high biodiversity forest, by poverty reduction and hunger
elimination and reach development objectives: (outputs in Annex 4 in project document)

(a)   Protect Cat Tien National Park and protect wider 72,000ha, protect and manage Chu Mom
Ray National Park (56,000ha) (output of component 1).



                                                  46

(b) Effectively protect the high biodiversity forest in the two buffer zones.
(output of component 2)

(c) Improve livelihood for local resident in buffer zones, reduce their dependence for living and
income in Cat Tien and Chu Mom Ray National Park by Social support programme, Agriculture
extension and Rural infrastructure, incredibly reduced the poverty rate in project area (output of
sub component 2b,2c,2d and 2f); and

(d) Improve capacity for the Government in designing, implementing and monitoring ICDPs
(output of all component, especially component 3).

4.3 Effectiveness: economic International independence consultant has carried out survey and
in summary as below:

4.3.1 Analysis result show that Internal rate of return is 13,7% for option 50 years and 13,2% for
option 30 years. Beside direct benefit, there are indirect benefits raised from trading improvement
(thanks to road transportation, irrigation system, information system). These indirect benefits
used to have more effectiveness than direct ones, Internal rate of return increase by 32 %.

4.3.2 Most agricultural interventions are successful, including those focus on current cultivation
practice (especially rice, cashew and cassava) and on new breeding (as bamboo sprout and
silkworm) and husbandry (cow, goat).Identified benefit of these interventions rise from 100% to
423% by two factors ­ first high yield, second high price due to stronger connection with
consumption market.

4.3.3 The data show that all four typical trees have gain higher yield. Cassava yield increase
higher in favorable cultivation area (by 100%). The rate is calculated to evaluate the difference
between local price and market price. With these four trees, local price rises faster than market
price, mean farmers ' position has improved. Price of cassava is the fastest increase, thanks to
better market access condition (by road, information system) and new cassava breeding.

4.3.4 The indirect benefit will be implemented through the rise in agricultural income,
specifically more local jobs and local merchandise production. Besides, commerce enhancement
will help to multiply benefit. The lessons from other nations are that indirect benefits used to
multiply in a higher level than that of direct agricultural benefit. Carefully calculated show that
the indirect benefit is 1.2 times direct one; means the project has created a great impact on
economic development in the area.

4.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

4.4.1 The rating of the overall outcome is considered to be satisfactory. The objectives of the
project were (and remain) relevant to Vietnam 's priorities and the Bank's CAS and all of
development objectives were fully achieved. In addition, relatively high levels of efficiency and
EIRRs have been achieved from the project's interventions. As described, most of the target
values for the POD indicators and Intermediate Outcome Indicators were reached and in the some
cases exceeded.

4.4.2 The above result show that, the project has significant social positive impact, especially on
poverty reduction and hunger elimination in the poorest area, where previously face serious food


                                                  47

security and relating issues about local ethnic minorities (project area crowded with minorities
and live on forest, the poor and minorities vulnerable by natural disaster). Besides the project also
give provision on gender issue, add more 15 man month for national consultant on gender, hold
lots of commune level meetings for women (ethnic women) about project activities.

4.4.3 The project also provide full human resource at commune level. Personnel of commune
officer CWG's member always change after election, or personnel movement, leave and come
staff, therefore the project retrain and increase the working time of Commune advisory group
(CAG) until the end of investment activities (30/June/2006, original use only CAGs in the first
2.5 years.)

5. Risk management on development impact result- Proposal

5.1 The project has greatly affect hunger elimination and poverty reduction and therefore: (a)
reduce dependency on forest resource in the poorest area; and (b) establish fundamental linkage
between forest protection/ecological diversification reservation and job creation in commune
level, however these first achievements are rather unstable and need maintaining and
strengthening. Risk toward development impact result is evaluated "considerate /significant".
This situation is popular in most ICDPs which requires more time and permanent effort to create
a sustainable impact.

Therefore, measures need after project closing date:
(a) Continue training and awareness raising (including agricultural extension)
(b) Maintain relating activities about linkage between development and conservation
(c) Maintain civil works and rural infrastructure works

It is necessary to set up a feasible and ready plan and budget for the above jobs and carefully
monitoring their implementation, by using independent consultant, the same as Monitoring and
Auditing Team (MAT) (for FPRDP, it is proposed 3 MATs, once a year, funded by donors, about
250,000 USD. This option is quite feasible.)

5.2 Propose that Government and donors need to create a similar project in Highland provinces
or in others in Vietnam. This is also the legitimate aspiration of the provinces.

6. Evaluate the implementation result for Bank and Borrower.

6.1 Quality factors of objectives, quality of activities: Both WB and Viet Nam are evaluated as
satisfactory, meet project design and implementation requirement, in both two stages above.

6.2 Time and progress factors: Project design is rather ambitious for time, not mention and
omit and/or not warn about many important issues affect project progress and time of
implementation. The first stage (3.5 years), limited capacity to deal with the above factors, both
WB and Vietnam. In project management, PMU and PPMUs had to follow two mechanism in
parallel (WB &VN), i.e. management job increase two times in M&E, Planning and Accountant-
Finance and procurement units). From the above factors (especially quality and progress factors),
summarized in this table:




                                                   48

7. Lessons learned.

7.1 Project preparation and design

(a) Project preparation: although the project is implemented in two pilot communes but it is not
enough, and here we should aware that once expand in large scale and wide area, it is quite
different, especially progress and time for performance.

(b) Project design: Both Viet Nam and Donors should focus on "procedures harmonization" for
each specific project and check it carefully, if it is under or not satisfactory, it should not be
approved. For ICDPs, "investment priorities" is necessary, but it should not be fix and left
incomplete in operation steps, especially the activities need long time for preparation,
complicated and/or not affect conservation target.)

7.2 Project implementation: Right after project begin, it is necessary to check specific
procedures harmonization for project, as well as deficiencies in project design (because the social
and economic situation of Viet Nam changing all the time), therefore reduce unpractical
ambitiousness on progress and pressure on timing.

(a) Monitoring and evaluation, it is needed a efficient M&E in natural resource management,
collect and store relating data, not only in project time, but also be available 3 years after project
close. Establish procedure to collect, analyze and back up data right after begin a
project/programme and an independent M&E system; This should be regulated in the credit
agreement.

(b) CAPs, the use of CAP is a good example on participatory planning and help commune
officers understand their benefit from the bottom-up plan. This procedure is the model for local
communities/administration in collecting and analyzing planning information and it should be
widen; CAP updating and CAGs using is necessary during implementation of ICDPs/or high-
social-content project.

(c) Linkage between conservation and development, in project, agreed benefit transference
under conservation commitment is a good example for integrate environment and jobs
development. Although access method of the project helps increase awareness of concerning
agencies, but in order to improve the connection of environment and development, more work is
needed to access and affect relating authorities.

(d) Institution/Administration, although ICDP approach is useful tool in project scale,
expending it is required with legislation at ODA Agreement or Government/Donors, because it is
rather difficult, need information exchange and cooperation among branches/sectors and
governing bodies/project partners.

(e) Build capacity at local level. Due to the complication of project, performance agencies and
local authorities need training to receive better knowledge and capacity, especially about financial
management (procurement and accountant).

(f) Decentralization to province, district, and commune have to be performed as soon as
possible, and a special account should be opened at province/district/commune if possible.




                                                   49

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

8.1 Comments on the draft ICR were received from the Embassy of The Netherlands on
November 31, 2006. The comments mainly suggested more information and elaboration, which
have been incorporated in the revised draft. There are three main points, as follows:

(a) Overall. The general impression was that the project has made good progress after a long
difficult start. The project comprised the first major IDA loan plus TA support to the forest sector.
Like many ODA-funded projects in Vietnam, the project incurred considerable delays at start-up.
The project is also a complex one, dealing not only with investment in conservation and
development but also the linkages between them.

(b) On project design. The project design is weak in relation to support for, and integration with,
national, provincial and local level planning and development process. Poor integration is
particularly evident in components that seek to support land allocation and forest protection in the
buffer zones. Linkages with provincial and national programs (such as the 135 and 661
programs) have also been weak. Fortunately, most of the weaknesses have been overcome and
by the completion of implementation the project had gained useful experience to share in linking
forest conservation with commune, provincial and national planning and policy.

(c) Selection of TA. There was a long delay in the selection of TA (18 months). There must be
lessons to be learned from this.




                                                 50

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President
Project Implementation Manual
Development Credit Agreement
Dutch Grant Agreement
Aide Memoires
Project Correspondence
Consultant Reports




                                        51

