Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2996 VN
Development Credit Agreement
(Forest Protection and Rural Development Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 8, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2996 VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 8, 1997, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B)
the Government of the Netherlands (the Netherlands) has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower, through the Association, a grant (the Netherlands Grant) in 
the amount of ten million Netherlands Guilders (NLG 10,000,000) to assist in financing 
Parts A, B.1(a) and C.1(i) of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in a 
Letter of Agreement dated  October 27, 1997, entered into between the Netherlands and 
the Association, which Letter of Agreement, inter alia, provides for the Association 
to administer the proceeds of the Netherlands Grant; 
(C)
pursuant to the Letter of Agreement mentioned in paragraph (B) above the 
Borrower and the Association, Acting as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by the 
Netherlands, have entered into an agreement of even date herewith (the Netherlands 
Grant Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in 
the territories of 
any country which is not a member of the Bank or for  goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.” 
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the 
right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall  have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Association 
determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the 
Credit will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, 
the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were  engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without 
the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to  the Association to remedy the situation, 
and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or 
(d) at any 
time, the Association determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement 
and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit 
Account, the Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms wherever used in this 
Agreement have the following meanings:
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who on account of the execution of the 
Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or 
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to use any land  
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or right in annual or perennial 
crops and trees or any other fixed or movable asset, acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence 
or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently, and "Affected Persons" 
means, collectively, all persons who qualify as an Affected Person;
(b)
“Buffer Zone” means an area surrounding a national park or a nature 
reserve formed by the administrative boundaries of those Communes adjacent to the 
national park or reserve or whose boundaries are located in part not more than 3 
Page  3
kilometers width from a national park or a nature reserve;
(c)
“Cat Tien National Park” means the area comprising the Nam Cat Tien 
National Park, Cat Loc Nature Reserve and Tay Cat Tien Nature Reserve located in Dong 
Nai Province, Lam Dong Province and Binh Phuoc Province, respectively; 
(d)
“Commune” means the smallest administrative unit within the Borrower’s 
administrative system forming the Buffer Zone; 
(e)
“Commune Action Plans” means, collectively, the specific plans developed 
through the community participatory process under Part B.1(a) of the Project to 
implement a number of environmentally sustainable development sub-projects that 
contribute to a reduction of land-use pressures and in extraction of natural resources 
from the Cat Tien National Park and Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve, and to be carried out 
by a Commune using the proceeds of a Social Support Grant, and the term “Commune 
Action Plan” means any one of  such Action Plans; 
(f)
“Commune People’s Committees” mean, collectively, the local governments 
of the Project Provinces at the Commune level, and  “Commune People’s Committee” means 
any one of the Commune People’s Committee in the Project Provinces;
(g)
“Ethnic Minorities Development Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, approved by the Prime Minister’s Decision  No. 4936/KTN dated October 3, 
1997 and the Decision Nos. 1648 and 2564 NN-HTQT/DCDC/QD of the Borrower’s Minister of 
Agriculture and Rural Development dated July 11, 1997 and October 7, 1997, 
respectively, for purposes of carrying out Parts A and B of the Project with the 
informed participation of, and consultation with, communities with Ethnic Minorities, 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such 
Development Plan may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower 
and the Association, and the term  “Ethnic Minorities” means social groups 
disadvantaged in the development process and with social and cultural identity 
distinct from those which constitute the predominant ethnic group in Vietnam; 
(h)
“Forest Protection Contract” means the contract to be entered into 
between an individual household or group of individual households in a Commune and the 
respective Commune Peoples’ Committees for purposes of joint protection of natural 
forests in the Buffer Zone, as the term is hereby defined, against  human 
encroachment, human destruction by fire and illegal logging.
(i)
“Management Plan for the Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve” means the plan for 
the management of the Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve, prepared by the Provincial People’s 
Committee of Kon Tum province in July 1995, as the said Management Plan shall be 
revised pursuant to paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(j)
“Management Plan for the Cat Tien National Park” means the plan  for the 
management of the Cat Tien National Park, prepared by MARD in October 1994, as the 
said Management Plan shall be revised pursuant to paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(k)
“MARD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Development, and any successor thereto; 
(l)
“Policy Framework for Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons” means the policy, satisfactory to the Association, approved by the Prime 
Minister’s Decision No. 4936/KTN dated October 3, 1997 and the Decision Nos. 1648 and 
2564 NN-HTQT/DCDC/QD of the Borrower’s Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development 
dated July 11, 1997 and October 7, 1997, respectively, for carrying out the 
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of each Affected Person pursuant to 
paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Policy Framework may be amended 
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association;
(m)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the time-bound action plan for the 
carrying out of the Project, including implementation responsibilities, procedures and 
guidelines and criteria for selection of rural infrastructure works, referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Social Support Grants referred to 
in paragraph 5 of said Schedule; 
Page  4
(n)
“Project Management Unit” and the acronym “PMU” mean the unit established 
by MARD pursuant to paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(o)
“Provincial People’s Committees” means, collectively, the Local 
Governments of the Project Provinces at the Provincial level, and “Provincial People’s 
Committee” means any one of the Provincial People’s Committees in the Project 
Provinces; 
(p)
“Project Provinces” means  the Borrower’s Provinces of Binh Phuoc, Dak 
Lak,  Dong Nai, Kon Tum and Lam Dong,  and any successor thereto; 
(q)
“Project Steering Committee” and the acronym “PSC” mean the committee 
established by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(r)
“Provincial Project Management Unit” and the acronym “PPMU” mean a unit 
established by a Provincial People’s Committee pursuant to paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement;
(s)
“Provincial Project Steering Committee” and the acronym “PPSC” mean a 
committee established by a Provincial People’s Committee pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(t)
“Respective Parts of the Project” means, for each Provincial People’s 
Committee and each Commune People’s Committee, the parts of the Project to be 
implemented by such Committees, pursuant to the Project Implementation Manual; 
(u)
“Social Support Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower, partly out of the proceeds of the Credit, to a Commune for the carrying out 
of its Commune Action Plan; and 
(v)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 15,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
Page  5
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2008 and ending October 15, 2037. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2017 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MARD, the Project Provincial People’s Committees and the 
Communes People’s Committees with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
Page  6
appropriate administrative, financial, forest protection and management, engineering, 
agriculture, resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons, and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project, including source of 
funding and amounts required to cover recurrent costs; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
Page  7
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this paragraph the right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Netherlands Grant made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the Netherlands Grant Agreement;
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation or 
termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph 
(b) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Project Steering Committee shall have been established in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b)
each Provincial Project Steering Committee shall have been established in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c)
the Project Management Unit shall have been established and its Manager 
appointed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;  
(d)
each  Provincial Project Management Unit shall have been established and 
its Manager appointed in accordance with the provisions of  paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement; and 
(e)
the Project Implementation Manual, satisfactory to the Association, shall 
have been approved by MARD.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the provisions of the Policy Framework for Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation of Affected Persons are legally valid and enforceable in accordance 
with Vietnamese law; and 
Page  8
(b)
that the provisions of the Ethnic Minorities Development Plan are legally 
valid and enforceable in accordance with Vietnamese law. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To Street
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Cable address:
Telex:
VIETBANK
412248 NHTWVT
Hanoi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By /s/ Le Duc Thuy, 
Deputy Governor, 
State Bank of Vietnam 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andrew Steer, 
Country Director for Vietnam 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
Page  9
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
   Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
  to be Financed
 (1)
Civil works:
  90%
(a)  irrigation and road
   6,330,000
       rehabilitation 
       under Part B of the
       Project, other
       than the access road 
       for Cat Tien National 
Park and Chu Mom Ray 
Nature Reserve
(b)  access roads
    290,000
       for Cat Tien National
Park and Chu Mom 
Ray Nature Reserve
under Part B of 
the Project
(2)
Goods under Parts B
  1,275,000
        100% of foreign 
and C of the Project
 expenditures,
 100% of local
 expenditures (ex-
 factory cost)
 and 85% of local
 expenditures for other
 items procured locally
(3)
Training under Parts B.1
    287,000
 100%
(except under Part B.1(a))
and C of the Project
(4)
Consultants’ Services
    170,000
        100%
under Part B.1(f) of the
Project
(5)
Forest Protection Contracts  1,700,000
 100%
(6)
Field activities, surveying  1,130,000
 90%
and mapping in the Buffer Zone
under Part B of the Project (except
under Part B.1(a))
(7)
Social Support Grants 
  1,960,000
       100% of amounts 
disbursed 
(8)
Incremental operating costs  1,213,000
under Parts B and C of the
Project:
(a) incurred during calendar
80%
       years 1998, 1999 and 2000
(b) incurred during calendar
50%
       years 2001, 2002 and 2003
(9)
Unallocated
  1,545,000
  _________
TOTAL
 15,900,000
Page  10
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means incremental salaries and 
field allowances of Project staff, travel expenses, office consumables and expenses, 
communication expenses and incremental operations and maintenance costs of 
investments.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) 
payments for expenditures under Category 1(a) until the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association evidence satisfactory to the Association that the 
irrigation and road rehabilitation works under Part B of the Project have been 
selected in accordance with the criteria selection and guidelines set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) all goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; 
(b) all works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; 
(c) services provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; 
(d) services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(e) training, incremental operating costs  and Forest Protection Contracts; all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to protect and manage 
natural forests in Vietnam with high biodiversity, in particular the Chu Mom Ray 
Nature Reserve and the Cat Tien National Park.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
PART A: Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve 
1.
Assessment and implementation of the Management Plan for the Chu Mom Ray Nature 
Reserve, including: 
(a)
establishment and physical demarcation of the Nature Reserve boundaries 
to include an additional 8,800 hectares of surrounding natural forest with high 
biodiversity value; 
(b)
establishment  of management zones and implemen-tation of management 
programs therefor; 
Page  11
(c)
formulation of regulations for management of the Nature Reserve; 
(d)
possible expansion of  the Nature Reserve to include about 85,000 
hectares of natural forest to its West and South; 
(e)
construction of protection facilities, visitor center and improvement of 
roads and trails; and 
(f)
provision of communications equipment, vehicles and office equipment. 
2.
Carrying out  research studies and surveys for monitoring and evaluation of the 
ecological integrity  and management of the Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve. 
3.
Formulation and implementation of public awareness campaigns to support 
conservation activities and to promote interaction between the Chu Mom Ray Nature 
Reserve staff and communities in the Buffer Zone thereof.
4.
Development and implementation of eco-tourism programs in the Chu Mom Ray Nature 
Reserve. 
5.
Development and implementation of training programs for Chu Mom Ray Nature 
Reserve staff in conservation management and visitor programs.
PART B: Buffer Zone Development
1.
Implementation of  rural development activities in the Buffer Zone of the Chu 
Mom Ray Nature Reserve and of  the Cat Tien National Park to reduce communities’ 
dependency on resources thereof, including: 
(a)
implementing community participatory  planning processes to develop 
Commune Action Plans; 
(b)
carrying out land allocation to households to promote sustainable land 
use and secure rural credit; 
(c)
financing  of  Commune Action Plans through Social Support Grants; 
(d)
developing and implementing a system for  management and sustainable use 
of natural forests in the respective Buffer Zone, including entering into Forest 
Protection Contracts and undertaking a study on restructuring  of State-owned forest 
enterprises; 
(e)
providing agricultural support services to increase agriculture 
production; and 
(f)
constructing and rehabilitating infrastructure facilities to improve 
agricultural yields and access to markets, through provision of  goods, training and 
technical assistance.
PART C: Project Management and Institutional Development
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower’s Project implementing agencies for 
implementing forest protection programs and for carrying out Parts A and B of the 
Project, through: (i) provision of technical assistance for Project administration, 
financial management and audits, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation of the 
activities under Parts A and B of the Project; and (ii) provision of staff training 
and associated equipment.
*          *          * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  12
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of  Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in Parts C.5, C.6 and C.7 of this Section, 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 of this Section, 
goods estimated to cost less than $80,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods, other than vehicles, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods, which are of a proprietary nature costing $200,000 equivalent or less in 
the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles for the PMU may be procured from the Interagency Procurement Service 
Office of the United Nations in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines. 
5.
Community Participation
Works  required under Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Social Support Grants up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,830,000 equivalent may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association. 
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
Page  13
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant \0cdrawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
7.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) contracts for goods to be procured under International 
Competitive Bidding procedures; (b) the first three contracts for works to be procured 
under National Competitive Bidding procedures regardless of their respective estimated 
costs and, thereafter, all works under contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more; (c) the first contract for works to be procured under Community 
Participation procedures in each of the Project Provinces regardless of their 
respective estimated costs, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for surveys, mapping and studies under Part B of the Project (except 
under Part B.1(a) of the Project) estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Page  14
Services under Part B.1(b), B.1(c), B.1(e) and B.1(f) of the Project and commune 
extensions assistants may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:  Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth  in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall, through MARD, establish and thereafter maintain at all times 
during the implementation of the Project:
(a) 
a Project Steering Committee chaired by a Vice-Minister of MARD and with 
representatives, inter alia, of the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Investment, 
Ministry of Finance, State Bank of Viietnam, General Department of Land 
Administration, State Committee for Ethnic Minorities and Mountainous Areas and the 
Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, assigned with such functions and 
responsibilities, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be required  for the 
overall coordination and oversight  of Project implementation; and
(b) 
a Project Management Unit, headed by a Manager with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association, with such functions, responsibilities and 
funds, satisfactory to the Association, and with competent staff in adequate numbers, 
as shall be required for the day-to-day implementation of the Project, including the 
preparation of Project reports, the maintenance of consolidated Project accounts, the 
implementation of procurement activities under International Competitive Bidding and 
National Competitive Bidding procedures, and the provision of guidance to the 
Provincial Project Management Units.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that each Project Provincial People’s Committee shall, 
for purposes of carrying out its Respective Parts of the Project, establish and 
thereafter maintain:
(a) 
a Provincial Project Steering Committee chaired by a Vice-Chairman of the 
Provincial People’s Committee and with representatives, inter alia, of  the Provincial 
Page  15
Agriculture and Rural Development Department, Provincial Land Administration 
Department, Forest Protection Branch, Provincial Planning and Investment Department, 
and Provincial Branch of Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, and 
assigned with such functions and responsibilities, satisfactory to the Association, as 
shall be required  for the coordination and oversight of the implementation of said 
Project People’s Committee’s Respective Parts of the Project at the Provincial and 
Commune levels; and
(b) 
a Provincial Project Management Unit, headed by a Manager with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, with such functions, 
responsibilities, funds and competent staff in adequate numbers, satisfactory to the 
Association, as shall be required to coordinate the day-to-day Project activities 
under said Project People’s Committee’s Respective Parts of the Project, including 
preparation of Project reports, maintenance of Project accounts, implementation of 
procurement activities other than those referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of this 
Schedule, and monitoring and evaluation. 
3.
The Borrower shall, through MARD, adopt the Project Implementation Manual, 
satisfactory to the Association, and thereafter implement the Project in accordance 
with such Manual. The Borrower further undertakes not to amend, abrogate or waive the 
Project Implementation Manual or any provision therein without the prior concurrence 
of the Association.
4.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01(a) of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that each of the Project Provincial 
People’s Committees and Project Communes People’s Committees shall carry out its 
Respective Parts of the Project and, to that end, shall make available to each of the 
Project Provincial People’s Committees and Project Communes People’s Committees the 
proceeds of the Credit and other funds allocated for such purposes, including the 
required counterpart funds. 
5.
The Borrower shall, through MARD, make Social Support Grants in accordance with 
the provisions of  Schedule 6 to this Agreement and those of the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
6.
For purposes of carrying out Part B.1(d) of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
through the respective Commune Peoples’ Committees, enter into Forest Protection 
Contracts under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. For this 
purpose, by November 30, 1998, the Borrower shall, through the PMU, furnish to the 
Association, for its approval, a draft model Forest Protection Contract and, 
thereafter, cause the Commune Peoples’ Committees to enter into Forest Protection 
Contracts consistent with the said approved model.
7.
By January 31, 1999, the Borrower shall, through MARD, prepare and furnish to 
the Association for its review and comments a draft revised Management Plan for the 
Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve and, thereafter, taking into account the Association’s 
comments, adopt and implement such revised Management Plan. 
8.
By January 31, 1999, the Borrower shall, through MARD, furnish to the 
Association for its review and comments a draft revised Management Plan for the Cat 
Tien National Park and, thereafter, taking into account the Association’s comments, 
adopt and implement such revised Management Plan. 
9.
The Borrower shall ensure that Affected Persons shall be compensated, resettled 
and rehabilitated in accordance with the Policy Framework for Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons.  To that end, the Borrower shall, and 
shall cause each of the Project Provincial People’s Committees to, apply the said 
Policy Framework within their respective administrative boundaries,  in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.
10.
The Borrower shall ensure that Parts A and B of the Project shall be implemented 
with due regard to the provisions of the Ethnic Minorities Development Plan. To that 
end, the Borrower shall, and shall cause each of the Project Provincial People’s 
Committees to, apply the said Development Plan within their respective administrative 
boundaries,  in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
11.
By June 30, 1999, the Borrower shall, through MARD, furnish to the Association 
Page  16
for its review and comments the results of the State-owned forest enterprises study 
under Part B 1(d) of the Project, including  a time-bound action plan for the 
implementation of the results of the study. 
12.
The Borrower shall, through MARD, by August 31 of each year, commencing on 
August 31, 1998, furnish to the Association for its review and comments the proposed 
annual work program and budget for Project activities to be implemented in the 
following calendar year, including, without limitation on the provisions set forth in 
Part D, paragraph 1, Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, a detailed annual 
procurement plan, and thereafter, taking into account the Association's comments, take 
all such action, including provision of the required budgetary allocations, for 
carrying out such annual work program.
13.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31, 1998, establish and maintain operational procedures, 
satisfactory to the Association, to adequately monitor and evaluate on an ongoing 
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory  to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, including the impact 
of the Project on the various communities in the Project Provinces, in particular, 
those with Ethnic Minorities;
(b)
not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing July 31, 
1998, furnish to the Association semi-annual reports on the implementation of the 
Project, satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about  January 31, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date. The report should also 
identify the source of funding and amounts required to cover recurrent costs after the 
Project completion date; and
(d)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 8 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $700,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  17
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the  Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for 
deposits into the  Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the  
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the   Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in  the  Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
Page  18
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Procedures and Conditions of Social Support Grants
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the following procedures and 
conditions shall apply for purposes of implementing Part B.1 (c) of the Project.
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(i)
each Social Support Grant shall be used to finance environmentally 
sustainable development sub-projects that contribute to a reduction of land-use 
pressures and in extraction of natural resources from the Cat Tien National Park and 
Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve;
(ii)
such sub-project shall be identified in the Commune Action Plan  
developed by the communities themselves and approved by the Provincial Project 
Management Unit; and
(iii)
the cost of each sub-project shall not exceed US$20,000 equivalent.
2.
Each grant shall be made under a written  agreement between representatives of 
the Commune, the Cat Tien National Park Director or the Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve 
Director, as the case may be,  and the respective Provincial Project Management Unit 
Manager, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including the 
following:
(i)
that the Commune carries out and operates the development sub-projects 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
environmental, financial, and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(ii)
that works, goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
grant shall be procured in accordance with the  provisions of Section I, Parts C.2, 
C.5, C.6 and C.7 and Section II, Parts C.1 and C.2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, 
respectively; and such works, goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the development sub-projects;
(iii)
the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, 
plants, and construction included in the sub-project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(iv)
the right to obtain all such information as the Association or the 
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the benefits to be 
Page  19
derived from the sub-project; and
(v)
the right to suspend or terminate the right to the Commune to the use of 
the proceeds of the Social Support Grant upon failure by the Commune to perform its 
obligations under its agreement with the respective Provincial Project Management Unit 
and the Director of the Cat Tien National Park or Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve.
