Report No. PID2783
Project Name    Viet Nam-Forest Protection and Rural Development Project(@+)
Region                                  East Asia and Pacific
Sector                                  Environment
Project ID                              VNPE4839
Borrower                                The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Implementing Agency                     Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development
Contact: Mr. Nguyen Cat Giao
No. 2 Ngoc Ha St., Hanoi, Vietnam
Fax:     (844) 845-4319
Date PID Prepared                       September 1, 1995
Date Initial PID Updated                February 5, 1997
Appraisal Date                          April 1997
Projected Board Date                    September 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background. Growth and development in
Vietnam is in transition. Despite a period of successful
macroeconomic reforms, Vietnam remains a densely populated and poor
country largely dependent on natural resources for its economic
well-being. Per capita income in Vietnam, estimated at less than
US$250, makes it one of the poorest countries in the world. With
about 90 percent of its approximate population of 75 million living
in the rural areas, Vietnam is very dependent on its agriculture
and natural resource. This dependency and high population pressure
on scarce arable land are exerting tremendous pressure on the
country's natural resource base.
2.      One of Vietnam's primary natural resources is forests.
Vietnam's natural forest cover has declined from 67 percent of
total land area in the 1940s to roughly 26 percent in 1993.
Deforestation is estimated on average to be 350,000 hectares (ha)
per year. Of the 19 million ha of land currently classified as
forest land, some 13 million ha is largely denuded former forests
and only 1.0 million ha contain medium to rich quality forests.
These forests contain a wealth of plant species and highest avian
and primate diversity in mainland Southeast Asia. It is exceptional
that within the past two years two new mammal species were
discovered in the upland forest of two Central Highland provinces.
The leading causes of forest land degradation--arable land
cultivation and shifting cultivation--are attributable to
population pressure.
3.      To reduce the loss of natural forests and the valuable
biodiversity they contain, Government of Vietnam (GOV) has taken
the following major steps: (a) established a national system of
protected areas (PA) to protect viable examples of all major forest
ecosystems; (b) enacted a forestry law and a number of implementing
decrees to strengthen forest protection; and (c) restructured and



clarified the functions of forest protection entities at various
levels of government. Although these initiatives have contributed
to the overall strengthening of forest protection, the PA system
still suffers from (a) weak enforcement; (b) shortage of staff; (c)
inadequate investments; and (d) lack of influence on land use and
people living in areas adjacent to the PAs (or in the buffer zone).
It is now widely recognized that in addition to strengthening
protection, the sustainability of the PA system requires addressing
the reasons for dependence on forest encroachment--poverty and food
insecurity. This will require implementation of innovative
integrated conservation and development strategies and closer
collaboration between various levels of government and between
government staff and local people.
4.      Project Objectives. The overall goal of the project is to
improve environmental protection in Vietnam by protecting and
managing remaining natural forests with high biodiversity. In
conformity with this goal, the project objectives are (a) the
effective protection of two high priority protected areas (Cat Tien
National Park (CTNP) and Chu Mom Ray Nature Reserve (CMRNR)); (b)
the effective management of remaining natural forests in the buffer
zone of CTNP and CMRNR; (c) the reduction in dependency on CTNP and
CMRNR for subsistence and cash income by improving the livelihood
status of residents in the buffer zone; and (d) the strengthening
of government capacity to effectively design, implement, and
monitor integrated conservation and development programs.
5.      Project Area. The project area includes Chu Mom Ray Nature
Reserve (CMRNR) located in Kon Tum province, Cat Tien National Park
(CTNP) located in Dong Nai, Lam Dong, and Binh Phuoc provinces and
a surrounding area of agricultural and forestry land (buffer zone).
Because an existing Dutch-funded project, Cat Tien National Park
Conservation Project (CTNPCP) is addressing the strengthening of
management in CTNP, the project will support only buffer zone
community development activities at CTNP but closely coordinated
with the CTNPCP. The project will support both PA protection and
buffer zone activities at CMRNR. Buffer zone has been defined as a
continuous band of those communes adjacent to the PAs of CTNP and
CMRNR. The buffer zone also includes additional contiguous communes
within 3 kilometer (km) of the PA in which human population may
present an actual or potential threat to biodiversity conservation.
This definition was adopted because the commune is the smallest
administrative unit within the Vietnamese administrative system
through which project activities can be effectively managed.
6.      Project Description. The project would help finance, over six
years, the following:
a)      Protected areas management of CMRNR component.
The aim is to strengthen the protection and management of the PA.
Activities include revision of existing management plan;
implementation of the management plan including boundary
demarcation, provision of equipment and protection facilities,
construction of access trails, and hiring of additional protection
staff; implementation of selected research and monitoring studies;
-2 -



implementation of public awareness campaign in the buffer zone;
development of nature-based tourism to generate revenues to local
people; and training of PA and other government staff.
b)      Buffer zone development component. The aim is to
reduce the incursion pressure on the PAs by providing alternative
income-generating opportunities; securing land tenure; and
enhancing the management and use of existing natural forests in the
buffer zone. Development of rural communities and better management
and use of forests located in the buffer communes of CTNP and CMRNR
is key to reducing the incursion pressure on the PAs. A
participatory process-oriented approach will be used to derive
commune action plans (CAPs) based on priority needs identified by
the participating communes. The component would fund: (i) community
development planning process to formulate CAP and negotiate a
conservation agreement based on the CAP in exchange for community
cooperation in PA protection; (ii) land allocation to improve
access to institutional credit, promote sustainable land use,
control in-migration, and increase social stability; (iii) social
support program to improve basic social infrastructure and increase
income and employment opportunities for communities, particularly
the very poor; (iv) agricultural support activities to improve
yields and diversify farm incomes; (v) issuance of long-term forest
protection contracts to households to jointly protect remaining
natural forests in the buffer zone and feasibility study to
restructure State Forest Enterprises (SFE) adjacent to the PA as a
means to improve management of the forest estate under their
control; and (vi) small-scale irrigation expansion and construction
to increase food production and security and road upgrade to
improve services to rural communities and expand market
opportunities.
c)      Project management and institutional development
component includes establishing the institutional structures and
management processes needed to implement the project and
strengthening of institutional capacity at all levels, particularly
provincial and commune, to implement project activities and sustain
project interventions.
7.      Financing. Total project cost is approximately US$29.89
million. An IDA credit of US$22.8 million equivalent would finance
about 77 percent of total project costs, exclusive of taxes and
duties. Grant co-financing is being considered by the Government of
the Netherlands.
8.      Implementation Arrangements. The Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development (MARD) would be responsible for overall
management of the project supported by a Project Management Unit
(PMU). Since implementation will be carried out by several local
government agencies and communes, the People's Committee of the
five participating provinces would have overall responsibility for
implementation at the provincial level supported by Provincial
Project Management Units (PPMUs). Commune Management Committee
(CMC) would be established and responsible for overseeing the
planning, implementation, and monitoring of community-based
-3 -



activities at each participating commune. The CMC would ensure that
all community stakeholders are fully consulted in the planning
process, and that the commune action plan represents the needs and
priorities of the community. The PMU and PPMUs would handle
administration responsibilities including procurement, financial
management, and project monitoring and evaluation, and coordination
between PA and buffer zone.
9.      An inter-ministerial Project Steering Committee (PSC) would
be established under the chairmanship of MARD and representatives
from relevant ministries and Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development (VBA&RD). The PSC would be responsible for setting
policy and guidance, overall project supervision and coordination,
handling the approval of annual work plans and budgets and review
of implementation progress. At each province, there would be a
Provincial Project Steering Committee (PPSC) chaired by the Vice -
Chairperson of the People's Committee and including representatives
from relevant provincial agencies to set project related policies,
coordinate project implementation, approve provincial annual work
plan and budget, and approve commune action plans.
10.     Sustainability. Project sustainability would be enhanced by
the following interventions: (a) development of institutional and
human resource capacity to implement integrated conservation and
development projects; (b) development of ownership and commitment
at the communes to project objective of protecting forest resources
and biodiversity; and (c) development of incentives and alternative
livelihood opportunities to reduce pressure on the PA. The long-
term sustainability of CMRNR and CTNP will depend to a large extent
on a shared responsibility in PA management between MARD,
provincial and local governments, and village communities residing
around the PAs. Therefore, participatory planning, including land
allocation and boundary demarcation, assuring appropriate market
incentives, development and promotion of alternative livelihood
opportunities, and empowerment of local communities, is critical.
Efforts to increase public support for PAs, to provide tangible
measures of project benefits, and to explore potential of other
revenue generation (e.g., ecotourism) would increase prospective
for more adequate long-term financing from a variety of sources.
11.     Project Benefits. The main benefits are the protection of
invaluable biodiversity in the two PAs; more effective management
of natural forests in the project area; improvements in the socio-
economic well-being of buffer zone communities; and improvements in
the capacity of GOV to design, implement and monitor integrated
conservation and development programs. Although the value of the
biodiversity in the PAs were not quantified, these two PAs have
been ranked as containing biodiversity of global importance by a
group of international and national experts preparing the Vietnam
Biodiversity Action Plan. Economic analysis conducted on buffer
zone activities show an aggregate economic rate of return of 13
percent. However, for a project which relies on improving the
income and livelihood status of buffer zone households to secure
their joint cooperation in forest protection, the financial rate of
return (FRR) for these households will have to be high enough to
- 4 -



motivate active participation. Although FRRs vary according to
types of buffer zone households, their farm endowment and location,
and the market opportunities, they are expected to range from 20 to
75 percent for accessible areas with good soils and from 13 to 20
percent in less accessible areas where extensive barren land
exists.
12.     Project Risks. The project has significant risks. Many of the
project interventions, particularly in the buffer zone component,
are innovative and pilot in nature and therefore could be
considered risky. However, project activities were built upon
processes that have been demonstrated in other locations in Vietnam
and elsewhere and tested in two project communes during the
preparation process. The approach also emphasized greater
involvement of local communities and use of existing support
services and processes to deliver project goods and services. The
main risks include: (a) continuation of in-migration into the
project area, which is being addressed by boundary demarcation and
strengthening of enforcement, land allocation to secure land tenure
and promote social stability, and assurance from Government that no
planned migration will occur in the project area; (b) local
communities continuing to exploit the PA and natural forests
unsustainably despite receiving project benefits, which is being
addressed through establishment of clear, mutually agreed
agreements conservation that identify the respective rights and
responsibilities of local communities in protecting the PA in
exchange for benefits identified by the communities themselves; and
(c) inadequate coordination and ineffective sequencing of key
activities, which is being addressed through high input of
technical assistance and training, especially during the first
three years of implementation.
13.     Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector.
Since the proposed project would be the first IDA investment in
natural resource/environment in Vietnam, it draws mainly on project
experiences from other countries in Asia. The key lessons learned
include: (a) the need to clearly link buffer zone improvement
activities with the conservation objective; otherwise, improving
incomes of people living adjacent to PA alone will not relieve
pressure on forest incursion; (b) the importance of integrating
local villagers into the assessment of community needs through
participatory rural appraisal techniques; (c) the importance of
building a shared vision and common objectives among participants
and beneficiaries during preparation and implementation; and (d)
the need for flexibility during implementation to take into account
lessons learned.
14.     Poverty Category. This project does not have a poverty
category. However, while poverty is not a specific focus of the
project, below poverty households and indigenous ethnic minorities
would benefit specifically from the project since they are given
priority in rural development activities.
15.     Environmental Aspects. The project is classified as "B",
since positive environmental impacts are expected through improved
- 5 -



management and protection of the PAs and surrounding natural
forests and through the introduction of agricultural technology
which will encourage sustainable agricultural activities in the
buffer zone. The main finding of an environmental analysis was that
the project will have overall positive impact on the environment
and any potential negative impacts would be very small and limited
to the small-scale rural infrastructure schemes to be financed.
However, adequate safeguards have been incorporated into selection
criteria of the schemes and the required design and construction
specifications. Furthermore, external developments with potential
adverse impacts are being addressed through (a) a pilot activity to
restructure state forest enterprises in the buffer zone by
improving their environmental and financial performance; and (b)
provision of land tenure to minimize in-migration into the project
area.
16.     Social Aspects. A social assessment was carried out as part
of project preparation. The project is expected to have significant
positive social impacts particularly on some of the poorer
populations by ensuring a higher degree of food security,
increasing household incomes, improving rates of literacy,
improving health and sanitation, creating employment opportunities,
and assisting indigenous ethnic groups in developing their specific
cultural identify. An indigenous people development plan was
formulated to ensure that ethnic minorities living in the project
area are given the choice to participate in the project and that
their desires and needs are fully recognized and taken into
account. Although no resettlement is envisioned under the project,
a resettlement framework was developed in the event that
involuntary resettlement is found unavoidable after the PAs have
been demarcated.
17.     Participatory Approach. Preparation for the project has
emphasized client ownership (particularly at the provincial and
commune levels), local participation, and public consultation. A
wide range of groups, organizations, and individuals were consulted
by the preparation team comprising government staff and local and
international consultants. Four formal stakeholder workshops were
held at various stages of preparation to finalize site selection;
develop a shared vision and common objectives and facilitate
communications and exchange of views on project design and
implementation arrangements. Inputs from the grassroots level and
project beneficiaries were solicited through participatory rural
appraisal and the indicative planning exercise carried out in two
project communes and through numerous field visits by the
preparation team and World Bank missions. Participation of
beneficiaries is fundamental to project design and implementation
of all components, especially the buffer zone component which
relies on communities themselves to identify livelihood and other
activities to reduce dependency on the PA and raise their living
standards.
18.     Program Objective Categories. Project support promotes the
achievement of environmentally sustainable development; poverty
reduction; and institutional development.
- 6-



Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
- 7 -



Annex 1
Summary of Environmental Review
1.      The project was subject of an Environmental Review carried
out by the Environmental Protection Center (EPC), which is part of
the Vietnam Institute of Tropical Technology and Environmental
Protection under the Ministry of Science, Technology and
Environment. The review was based on initial drafts of the project
preparation documents, project site inspections and discussions
with relevant National, Provincial and District Government
agencies.
Potential Environmental Impacts of Project Activities
2.      The Project was assessed as having generally positive
environmental impacts through activities designed to improve
protection and management of natural resources. However, three
aspects of the project were identified as having some potential
adverse environmental impact potential: (a) the Chu Mom Ray Nature
Reserve (CMRNR) infrastructure development program; (b) small-scale
irrigation developments; and, (c) rural road developments. These
were subject to additional consideration.
(a) CMRNR Infrastructure Development Program. The potential
direct impacts were found to be minor and connected solely
with the construction phase. The main risks are minor soil
erosion, minor drainage impairment and hydrological
impacts associated with inappropriate disposal of
excavated materials and excess concrete associated with
fords and culverts. All of these impacts can be adequately
controlled by inclusion of suitable provisions in the
contract specifications (such specifications have been
formulated in the Project Implementation Manual) combined
with effective construction supervision to ensure that the
specifications are observed. Potential indirect impacts
could also arise due to the improved access into the Parks
and Nature Reserves for landless people, hunters and
poachers provided by the upgraded roads although it was
conceded that this had to be balanced against the benefits
that improved access would provide to management and staff
of the Park. The balance was assessed as favoring upgraded
access. Incursions and illegal exploitation are already
occurring, even with very poor access. The improved access
may make things marginally easier for encroachers but it
will much more significantly improve the capacity of
forest rangers to detect and control these encroachments;
(b) Upgrading of rural roads. Direct environmental impact
potentials arise during the construction phase due to soil
erosion, drainage impairment and inadequate disposal of
excavated materials. Similar to the CMRNR infrastructure
improvement, these issues will be addressed through the
inclusion of suitable specifications in the contract
documents and adequate construction supervision. Potential
- 8 -



indirect impacts could arise due to increased encroachment
resulting from development of new roads in the project
areas. The recommended solution to this problem is exclude
new road developments from funding eligibility under the
project. Only rehabilitation of existing roads will be
financed under the project;
(c)     Irrigation Sub-projects. Potential adverse
impacts include: waterlogging of soils; increased
incidence of water-borne and water-related diseases;
increases in the incidence of agricultural pests and
diseases resulting from the elimination of dry season die-
back and the creation of a more humid microclimate;
increased pollution of surface and groundwater from
fertilizers and agricultural biocides; and, adverse water
quality and biological impacts due to in-stream activities
such as weir/dam construction or rehabilitation, river
bank reinforcement and bridge, ford or culvert
construction.
The significance of these potential impacts is directly
proportional to the area of irrigable land to be
developed, the nature of the existing land use in the
areas to be developed and the nature of the irrigation
offtake (i.e. weir or reservoir). By these criteria, the
impact potentials of the proposed developments are very
small. Approximately half of the area to be developed will
be rehabilitation of existing small schemes. The maximum
incremental increase in irrigable area is only about 280
ha; all areas are already being cropped so there will be
no significant change in land use; and no new weirs or
reservoirs will be constructed.
New irrigation developments will all be less than 400
ha in area and most of the offtakes are weirs having
limited downstream impact potential. Four (Dak Can, Da
Lay, Dak Lan and Dak Kar) involve on-stream storage but
the diversion levels will be very small (e.g. for the
largest of these four schemes, the peak water demand is
likely to be in the order of 0.24 cumecs). All schemes are
significantly less than 2,500 ha in area which is a
guideline used by several environmental agencies in the
Asia region for determining whether or not an
environmental impact assessment is required. As an
additional level of protection, the Project Implementation
Manual includes a pro-forma Initial Environmental
Screening report to provide a basis for determining the
acceptability of new irrigation developments.
-9-



