Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14570
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1483-IN)
JUNE 7, 1995
Agricultural and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUlIVALENTS
Name of currency = Rupee (Rs)
Rate of exchange:
Appraisal year (Feb. 1984): US$1.00 = Rsl0.80
Intervening years (1985-93): US$1.00= Rs18.30
Completion year (1994): US$1.00 = Rs3 1.37
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles (mi)
I hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres (ac)
I million cubic meters (Mm3) = 810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
I billion cubic meters (Bm3) = 0.81 million acre-feet (MAF)
I cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec) = 0.028 cubic meters per second (m3/s)
I kilogram (kg) = 2.2 pounds (lb)
I metric ton (mt) = 2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APG        Advisory Planning Group
A'TW       Augmentation Tubewell
CCA        Cultivable Command Area
CWC        Central Water Commission
DOA        Department of Agriculture
ERR        Economic Rate of Retum
GOI        Government of India
GOUP       Government of Uttar Pradesh
HYV        High Yielding Varieties
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
ID         Irrigation Department
IDA        International Development Association
kV         kilovolt = 1,000 volts
LCB        Local Competitive Bidding
M & E      Monitoring & Evaluation
MGC        Madhya Ganga Canal
NIC        National Infornatic Center
NPV        Net Present Value
O & M      Operation & Maintenance
PUGC       Parallel Upper Ganga Canal
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SCF        Standard Conversion Factor
UGC        Upper Ganga Canal
UGIMP    Upper Ganga Irrigation Modemization Project
UP         Uttar Pradesh
UPSEB      Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board
WALMI    Water and Land Management Institute
GLOSSARY
Kharif             Wet season (June to October)
Rabi               Dry season (November to February)
Zaid               Hot weather season (March to May)
Gul                Watercourse channel
Kankar             Limestone layers in the substratum
Khadar             Low land where river used to meander in the past
Usar               Saline or alkaline efflorescence on soil surface
Warabundi          Water distribution between farmers on the same common channel
(watercourse) based on land area. Each farmer receives the full flow of the
watercourse for the same period each week with the period of time
depending on his landholding. The local usage within UP for warabundi is
osrabundi.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Credit 1483-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...........................................                                             i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ........................................... ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ........................................... I
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                              .4
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                                7
D. Project Sustair,ability.                                                            10
E. Bank Performance .10
F. Borrower Performance .12
G. Assessment of Outcome .16
H. Future Operation .16
I. Lessons Learned .17
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES .......... ..                                                      18
l . Summary of Assessments.                                                            1 8
2.  Related Bank Loans/Credits .20
3. Project Timetables .21
4.  Loan/Credit Disbursements .21
5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .22
6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation .24
7.  Studies Included in Project .24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not othcnvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l



8.      Project Costs and Financing  ................................... 25
A.   Project Costs .2...................................5......... 2
B .     Project Financing ..............            ....................2.........    26
9.      Economic Costs and Benefits  ....................................             ................... 26
10.    Status of Legal Covenants ................................... 27
11.    ConcurTence with Operational Manual Statements ...................................  29
12.    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  ................................... 29
13.    Bank Resources: Missions .................................. 30
Appendix 1. FAO/CP Mission Aide Memoire .31
Appendix 2. Economic Re-evaluation.                                                                                40
TABLES
1.      Cropping Pattern - Main Canal Modernization ......................................... 46
2.      Crop Yield - Main Canal Modernization  .........................                       .......... 47
3 .     Average Crop Budgets at Financial Prices-Main Canal Modernization .......                    ...... 48
4.      Cropping Pattern - Bulandshahr .........................................                          49
5.      Cropping   Patter-n   -  Harduagani .........................................                     50
6.      Crop   Yield   -  Bulandshahr .........................................                           51
7.   Crop Yield - Harduaganj .......................................... 52
8.      Exchange Rates and Wholesale Price Indices  ........................................ 53
9.      Average Crop Budgets at Financial Prices - Bulandshahr .............                 .............. 54
10.    Average Crop Budgets at Financial Prices - Harduaganj ............................. 55
11.  Economic Costs - Risk Aversion Works .56
12.  Economic Costs - Common Modernization Works .57
13.  Economic Costs - Harduaganj Distibutary .58
14.  Economic Costs - Bulandshahr Distributary .59
15.  Summary of Financial and Economic Prices.                                                            60
16. Derivation of Economic Prices.                                                                       6 1
17.  Economic Analysis: Risk Aversion Works.                                                              62
1 8.    Economic Analysis: Canal Modernization  .................................                ........ 64
19.    Economic Analysis: Bulandshahr Distiibutazy ....................                    ............ 66
20.    Economic Analysis: Harduaganj Distributary  ......................................... 68
Appendix 3. Status of Study Reports as on September 30, 1994 .70
Appendix 4. Project Cost in Nominal and Real Terms .72
Appendix 5.  Borrower's Comments on the Implementation Completion Report .73
Map IBRD 17646RI



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT (UGIMP)
(Credit 1483-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Upper Ganga Irrigation
Modernization Project (UGIMP) in India, for which Credit 1483-IN in the amount of SDR 117.5
million (US$125 million equivalent) was approved on May 24, 1984 and made effective on
September 21, 1984.
SDR 18.4 million (US$25.1 million equivalent) was cancelled on December 5, 1991
during the funds redeployment exercise. The Credit was closed on September 30, 1994, three
years behind schedule. Final disbursement took place on February 24, 1995, and the undisbursed
balance of SDR 4.72 million was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by a Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
(FAO/CP) mission which vlsit-d India in September/October 1994. It was finalized by the Task
Manager, Mr. Jean-Pierre Baudelaire, Agriculture Unit, Resident Staff in India, Country
Department II, South Asia R ~gional Office, and reviewed by Mr. Shawki Barghouti, Chief,
Agriculture and Water Operati.ons Division, and Nls. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Advisor. The
Borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun dtuiing the Bank's final supervision and joint
implementation completion mission in September/October 1994. It is based on a review of the
Staff Appraisal Report and legal documents, supervision reports and project files, as well as field
investigations and discussions with Bank staff and GOUP officials associated with the project.
The implementing agency contributed to the preparation of the ICR by commenting on the
mission's aide-m6moire, arranging all field visits and discussions with project officers and
participating farmers, and providing available data on project performance.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT (UGIMP)
(Cr.1483-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
I .       The Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGIMP) financed a six-year time
slice to rehabilitate and modernize the Upper Ganga Canal (UGC) command area which was
constructed more than a century ago. The main objectives of the project were to: (a) avert a
serious risk of failure of several major structures in the upper reach of the UGC system; (b)
rehabilitate and modemize the system and use the savings in water supplies to increase the irrigated
areas; (c) increase water supply through conjunctive use of groundwater; (d) improve the State's
capacity for sectoral planning and overall management of irrigation schemes; (e) enhance the
benefits from sunk cost in the Madhya Ganga Canal (MGC) system which interrelates with the
UGC system; and (f) maximize crop production andi farmers' income in the project area.
2.        Project Components. Replacement ol the existing main canal with a parallel lined
canal together with modern regulating and access structures, modernization of the distributary
systems, construction of augmentation tubewells andi a modern communications system were the
primary components of UGIMP.
Project Changes After Appraisal
3.        The project restructuring in 1991 expanded the project scope by: (a) adding the
Madhya Ganga Canal; (b) prolonging the parallel main canal by 12.5 km; (c) advancing the
com1pletion of the major cross-drainage works, (d) extending the modernization of the Machua
distributary to cover an area of 17,000 ha; and (e) upgrading and expanding the proposed remote
control and monitoring telecommunications system in UGC.
4.         Credit Covenants. Special credit covenants or agreemcnts that were expected to
promote achievement of project objectives were: (a) the retention of consultants to advise in
planning, design, operation, management, monitoring/evaluation and drainage. as well as carrying
out agriculture and socio-economic, management and water charge system studies; (b) installation
and operation of dedicated and independent electrical feeder lines to energize each augmentation
tubewell (ATW); and (c) maintenance of water rates to cover average cost of operation and
maintenance, and a reasonable portion of investment cost, taking into account repayment capacity
of farmers. The first covenant was fully complied with and the second and third complied with
partially, raising some doubt on the full effectiveness of the covenants.
5.         Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project objectives were clear, realistic and
important for the irrigation sub-sector of Uttar Pradesh as it was the first time that the
comprehensive rehabilitation and modernization of a major irrigation system was attempted in the
state. It was worthwhile because of the innovative risk aversion component which differentiated it
from other irrigation rehabilitation investment in the rest of the country. The project also had
sectoral implications since there were several other major canal systems in Uttar Pradesh (UP)
which required modernization. The project was complex as it was based on an integrated irrigation



iii
modernization package. The project was responsive to Borrower's circumstances and the risk of
the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) not proceeding with project works after completion of
the first time slice was considered small.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.         The project experienced a delay of two years due to forest clearance on the canal right-
of-way and a further 1-1/2 years in procedural matters relating to international and local competitive
bidding, thereby limiting effective implementation to about 6-1/2 years. The project has partially
achieved its physical, sector policy and institutional development objectives. Macro-economic
policies and financial objectives were not applicable to this project. There was no coverage of
gender issues and equity was not a stated objective under the project. Overall, the physical
achievements have exceeded 80 percent of revised targets in all components except energization of
augmentation tubewells and risk aversion structures (except Ranipur syphon). The modernization
of the distributaries turned out to be successful inspite of delays in the completion of the risk
aversion and parallel canal works, and also inspite of delays in the completion of the
telecommunication system, augmentation tubewells, and of some fine tuning works in the
distribution networks. Thus there is every reason to believe that irrigated agricultural production
will further improve as soon as the delayed activities are completed. However, project success
has only been partial so far and it is clear that modernization activities should continue beyond the
simple upgrading of the distributary networks (to works on the main canal, conjunctive use,
telecommunication and institutional strengthening, as planned at appraisal) to achieve full
development objectives.
7.         Project Impact. The project impact has been evaluated, taking into consideration three
distinct but interrelated benefits:  (a) risk aversion to protect the existing irrigation system
benefiting 400,000 ha; (b) modernization of the main canal benefiting initially 270,000 ha; and (c)
modernization of the canal distributary blocks totalling about 31,000 ha (Bulandshahr and
Harduaganj). When completed, the first two investments would generate long-term direct benefits
to the overall UGC Irrigation System covering about 1.2 million ha; the rehabilitation and
modernization of existing works would improve mainly the quality of irrigation services. The
incremental irrigated area commanded by the two distributaries would be of the order of 1,000 ha
(3 percent of the cultivable command area [CCAl), but the major benefits are to be generated from
higher cropping intensities and crop yields with the availability of improved water supply,
particularly to tail-end farmers. Water saved from seepage losses would, therefore, be used for
better irrigation of existing areas commanded by the main canal and distributaries as foreseen at
appraisal.
8.         It is important to recognize that the comprehensive development of the UGC system
involves a five-stage (30-year) investment program of which the UGIMP is the first stage. In view
of the interrelationships between the different stages, evaluationi in isolation of one of the stages
does not truly reflect all the benefits, given the complementarity of investments in different stages.
There is not enough information yet to attempt an analysis of the total program. The analysis has
therefore been restricted to a comparison with estimates of the first stage made at appraisal.
9.         Economic Rates of Returns (ERRs). The currt-mlt economic rates of return re-
estimated at completion are 12 percent for the risk aversion component, 18 percent for main canal
modernization, 17 percent for the Bulandshahr distributary block, and 20 percent for the
Harduaganj distributary block. These compare with appraisal ERR estimates of 15 percent for the
risk aversion works, 19 percent for main canal modernization, 18 percent for Bulandshahr
distributary, and 25 percent for Harduaganj distributary. The recalculated ERRs are based on
actual costs incurred up to the Credit closing date plus costs to coniplete works until mid-1998, and



iv
an actual and updated projection of benefits. Both appraisal and completion estimates of ERRs are
more speculative than usual because they incorporate returns also to investments projected in later
years. The implementation difficulties as evidenced by cost overruns, delays in completion and in
later years, funding constraints are consistent with diminished project performance. Consequently,
the reduction in ERR estimates is not unexpected, despite higher cropping intensities, better crop
yields. and diversification to higher-value cropping patterns.
Project Sustainability
1 (.      The project is associated with ERRs that are consistent with sustainable economic
performance. However, project sustainability hinges on: (a) ensuring adequate provision of
operation and maintenance (O & M) funding; (b) having trained staff in place together with
adequate equipment to maintain the system; and (c) obtaining active local support for the project
through farmers' organizations or otherwise, to realize water management objectives. The key to
securing adequate 0 & M funding would be the revision of water rates and improved water
management. No revision of water charges has taken place since 1983, until October 1994 when
water rates were increased by 100 percent. However, the rate increase was still not enough to
cover average cost of operation and maintenance and a reasonable portion of investment costs.
GOUP has, therefore, only partially complied with any of the cost recovery covenants; however
the covenant requiring a study to be carried out by the Advisory Planning Group (APG) has been
complied with fully. A related issue is the active organization of farmers' organizations able and
willing to take over water management. Farmers need to be motivated and prepared for this task
through non-governmental organizations (NGOs) or other voluntary organizations and then given
proper training and technical assistance probably through the Water and Land Management Institute
(WALMI) on water management. These are major challenges facing GOUP in order to sustain
ilTigation development througlh the ongoing rehabilitation and modernization activities. As a first
time slice (of six years) of a longer term investment program, it is still too early to address the
sustainability of UGIMP. Evaluation of follow-up nhases should provide further opportunity for
review.
I].       Actual Cost. Financing and Implementati on Timetable. The final cost of the project is
now estimated at Rs.7,075 million (US$283 million), compared to the appraisal estimate of about
Rs.2,498 million (US$231 million), representing a 183 percent cost overrun in nominal rupee
terms or 55 percent cost overrun in real rupee terms. The Credit was able to finance about US$125
million or 44 percent of the estimated total project cost compared to 54 percent at appraisal. At
appraisal, it was estimated that the first time slice would be completed by September 30, 1990,
with a project closing date of September 30, 1991. Current estimates indicate that completion is
not likely until mid-1998 although the Credit was closed on September 30, 1994.
Key Factors Relating to Achievement of Project Objectives
12.       The most important contributory factors for delayed implernentation can be classified
into:
(a)    Factors not generally subject to Government control. These include mainly
civil disturbances.
(b)    Factors generally subject to Government control. These include contractual
implementation issues, the latter substantially delaying excavation and lining
of Parallel Upper Ganga Canal (PUGC) (km 177.5 to 240), inadequate
funding in the initial years, farmers tampering with government property,
continued indecision on the part of the GOUP to take prompt action in



v
resolving issues (Pathri structure), late issuance (involving almost two years)
of forest clearance for felling of trees on the canal right-of-way, late approval
of APG consultants by one year, slow land acquisition, and lack of adequate
policy for resettling canal displaced persons. These have substantially
delayed the implementation of the project.
(c)    Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. These include time
taken in processing changes in designs and amendment of contracts for the
Solani aqueduct and construction of PUGC in the reach km 189.5 to 240,
and in fixing alternative contract for the construction of the Pathri
superpassage after rescinding the original contract, delays in the finalization
of the planning and design for modernization of the 3.6 km Roorkee reach of
UGC, delays in implementing drainage works, lack of progress in the
construction of the augmentation tubewells and in the provision of
telecommunications facilities, delays in resolution of land acquisition cases in
the Bulandshahr reach of PUGC and in MGC, slow implementation of
adaptive research and agricultural extension programmes, lack of
coordination among 0 & M staff and construction staff in the modernization
of distributaries, the slow pace of procurement in the MGC system, and
frequent turnover of key project staff. The combined effect of these factors
has prevented GOUP from achieving progress at a higher pace.
13.       Performance of Bank and Borrower. The performance of the Bank during
supervision was mixed since they failed to push the integrated approach of the project. The
supervision missions should also have paid more attention to the problems of land acquisition and
canal affected persons earlier on in project implementation. The restructuring exercise, as
requested and agreed with the Borrower, was also not adequate. First, it overburdened an already
stretched budget and second, it did not provide adequate extension of time for the completion of the
additional components. The Borrower and the implementing agencies have also encountered
implementation difficulties.
14.       Project outcome assessment. The project outcome is rated as satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
15.       Findings. Risk aversion works would help reduce the risk of failure in the main canal
head reach, saving a command area of about 400,000 ha. The modernization of the main canal
would have an impact throughout the UGC command. The project impact of modernizing
distributary canal commands in terms of increased agricultural production, employment generated
and farm families benefited is being experienced.
16.       Plans for future project operations. The Irrigation Department has planned to complete
its first time slice operation by mid-1998. It is essential for GOUP to provide adequate funds for
completion as well as operation and maintenance of completed works. Another priority is to
arrange a review of augmentation tubewells and determine a strategy for their operation. The lining
of PUGC in reach km 177.5 to 190.7 needs to be completed on a priority basis to allow this
segment of lined canal to become operational for all rabi flows of the UGC system as envisaged.
GOUP plans to review the design of PUGC in reach km 190.7 to 240, to at least partially line it
(sides only) to carry 127 cumecs, matching the capacity of reach km 177.5 to 190.7. Risk
aversion works in the head reach and regulatory structures on modernized distiibutaries and minors
will have to be expeditiously completed to achieve proper regulation of canal supplies. Similarly,



vi
the pipe outlets need to be replaced with adjustable proportional module (APM) outlets to ensure
equitable distribution of water in various reaches of the lined channels and watercourses.
17.       The Irrigation Department is advised to monitor project impact using such measures as
irrigation system perfornance indicators supplemented by cropping patterns, cropped areas,
cropping intensities and crop yields according to crops and by seasons.
18.       Lessons for Future Projects in the Sub-sector. The main lessons learnt are:
(a)    As in many other projects in India, part of the reason for partial completion of
the project in UP is due to the allocation of counterpart funds among too
many projects. It is essential that the scale of the project be tailored to the
availability of financial resources of the government and to match institutional
capabilities. Where design is so done and yet financial constraints intervene
midway during implementation, the Bank should be prudent in accepting
Borrower's request to expand the project scope merely to absorb some cost
savings.
(b)    When project is restructured late during the implementation period (as is the
case with the addition of MGC system), extension must be for a full three or
four years and not year by year to allow for adequate budgeting over the
planned period by the Government
(c)    It is essential to have proper designs and adequate investigations of major
structures available for review during appraisal and in any case prior to
negotiations.
(d)    There is a need for future projects to resolve the problem of inadequate O&M
funding and the related issues of level of water charges and collection rates.
These will have to be seriously addressed under larger WRCP or NWMP
projects.
(e)    In addition to the usual arbitration and court procedures for resolving disputes
between implementing agencies and their contractors, future projects should
consider setting up high-power dispute resolution committees at Government
level. The role of these committees would be to take quick decisions when
conflicts arise. In case of persistent disagreements, court action should
remain the last resort for contractors.
(f)    The adequacy of ATWs and the related issue of dedicated power lines raise
further questions. These concepts have become either obsolete or inadequate
for conjunctive use in the light of current experience of farmer-operated
tubewells. Only in special cases where high groundwater levels and salinity
must be controlled departmentally, should they be used.
(g)    Turnover rate of key senior-level staff must be minimized if the benefits of
project training and efficiency in implementation are to be realized.
(h)    There is a need to have an up-front environmental clearance and an adequate
land acquisition and rehabilitation policy for canal affected persons. These
issues are better treated in recent projects through more precise Operational
Guidelines.



vui
(i)     In-depth monitoring is an essential tool for improving project performance
and for providing reliable data for estimation of project benefits. Follow-up
surveys should therefore be encouraged.



I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Credit 1483-IN)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Statement of Project Objectives
l.        The Upper Ganga Canal (UGC) Irrigation System, covering about 1.2 million ha.
was constructed about 1 50 years ago. The Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) has prepared a
30-year development program to rehabilitate and modernize this system. The Upper Ganga
Irrigation Modernization Project (UGIMP) was designed to finance a six-year first time slice of the
proposed rehabilitation and modernization plan. This has excluded the main canal headworks,
confining the project activities to rehabilitation and modernization and not a new diversion scheme.
2.        The main objectives of UGIMP were: (a) risk aversion from failure of the UGC
system; (b) rehabilitation and modernization of the system and using the savings resulting from
lining canals and improvements in the operational characteristics of the canal system to increase the
command area; (c) supplement surface water supply through conjunctive use of groundwater; (d)
improvement of the state's capability to plan, design and manage irrigation schemes; and (e)
maximization of crop production and farmers' income in the modernized project areas. An
additional objective of the first time slice was to maximize benefits from the sunk investment in the
Madhya Ganga Canal (MGC) system, which physically inter-relates with the UGC system.
3.        Project components included: (a) partial construction of a channel parallel to the
existing main canal of the UGC Irrigation System (between km 6-36 and between km 177.5 and
240 of such main canal), including the replacement of four river crossings of which Ratmau and
Solani are aqueducts, regulatory and access structures; (b) replacement of the existing hydro-
electric station at Palra and initial construction of a new hydro-electric station at Pathri; (c)
modernization of the irrigation distribution systems within the command areas of the Harduaganj,
Bulandshahr and Machua distributary canals, serving in the aggregate about 43,000 ha in the
project area through lining of about 140 km of distributary and minor canals and lining of about
1,250 km of watercourses; (d) construction and energization of about 33 augmentation tubewells
(ATWs) to be located along the Harduaganj and Bulandshahr distributary canals, to discharge in
the aggregate about 7,900 m3 per hour; (e) installation of dedicated and independent electrical
power transmission lines to serve augmentation tubewells (ATWs); (f) improvement of the UGC
Irrigation System's communications network through provision of two-way radio relay equipment
and of multi-access radio line-of-sight systems; (g) preparation of a comprehensive drainage plan
for the three distributary command areas (Harduaganj, Bulandshahr and Machua) and
implementation of a pilot work program; (h) carrying out of a reconnaissance study of the drainage
requirements of the project area; (i) improvements of Uttar Pradesh (UP) Irrigation Department's
capability to plan, design, operate, maintain, manage, monitor and evaluate irrigation and drainage
schemes; (j) construction of residential and non-residential buildings for project staff of the
Irrigation Department; (k) provision of equipment and vehicles; (I) carrying out of a training



2
program, through the Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI), for Irrigation Department
staff, including construction, operation, equipping and maintenance of the required facilities and
provision of required technical assistance; (m) carrying out of agricultural and socio-economic
studies, management study of irrigation schemes under the project, and irrigation water charge
system study; and (n) training and study tours of irrigated agricultural and irrigation system for
UP Irrigation Department staff.
4.         Project Cost. The total project cost including physical and price contingencies was
estimated at US$231.3 million (Rs.2,497.7 million), including an IDA Credit of US$125 million
which was to finance about 54 percent of the total project cost. The remaining project cost was to
be met by the Government of India (GOI) and the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP).
5.         Project Changes After Appraisal. The Development Credit Agreement was amended
in June 1991 to expand the scope of the project, increase the percentage of disbursement for locally
procured equipment and materials (other than ex-factory), reallocate the proceeds of the Credit
among the several categories and amend the Project Agreement for the purpose of changing certain
dated covenants. Accordingly, the project area was increased to about 1.4 million ha served by the
UGC Irrigation System and the interconnected MGC Irrigation System. The second objective of
the project was amended to "rehabilitate and modernize the UGC Irrigation System (excluding the
main canal headworks) and complete the construction of the interconnected MGC Irrigation
System." The Palra and Pathri hydro-electric stations were deleted. The additional works were
included in the extension of the parallel UGC and some remaining works in the MGC system. The
additional works of the UGC system included: (a) extension of the parallel UGC canal by 12.5 km
(from km 177.5 to 189.50) and advancing the completion of major cross-drainage works: (b)
modernization of the Machua distribution system and the expansion of the combined command
areas of Harduaganj, Bulandshahr and Machua from 43,000 ha to 50,000 ha and lining from 140
km to 340 km; and (c) upgrading and expansion of the UGC Irrigation System's
telecommunication network through provision of digital technology, equipment for voice, telex,
facsimile and data transmission.
6.         For the MGC Irrigation System, the remaining works consisted of: (a) completion of
the construction of selected works on the main canal and the Mat feeder canal; (b) completion of
the construction of the distributary canals and watercourses of the Lakhaoti branch and the Mat
feeder canals; and (c) completion of the construction of the branch canals parallel to the Mat and
the Hathras canals.
7.         The disbursement percentage for certain items (vehicles, equipment, materials
procured locally, other than ex-factory) was initially increased from 70 percent to 80 percent and
then to 90 percent, to take etfect retroactively from September 1, 1990, as part of the Gulf Initiative
to alleviate GOI's foreign exchange constraints. A sum of SDR 18.4 million was cancelled during
implementation.
8.         The UGIMP incorporated covenants or agreements that were expected to promote
achievement of project objectives: (a) the retention of consultants to advise in planning, design,
operation, maintenance, management, monitoring/evaluation, and drainage; preparation and
implementation of training programs by a specified date; (b) retention of consultants to advise in
carrying out agriculture and socio-economic, management, and water charge system studies; (c)
installation and operation of dedicated and independent electrical feeder lines to energize each
ATW; and (d) maintenance of water rates to cover average cost of operation and maintenance, and
a reasonable portion of investment cost, taking into account repayment capacity of farmers. All the
above covenants were complied with during the implementation of the project, except the last two
which were complied with only partially. Water rates have not been increased since 1983 and cost



3
recovery from farmer beneficiaries continued to be minimal, lagging well below expenditure on
operation and maintenance. The Principal Secretary, Irrigation indicated at the wrap-up meeting on
October 17, 1994, thait the GOUP increased the water rates by about 100 percent by notification of
October 18, 1994. However, the GOUP has still retained the statewide uniform rates and not
switched over to the intended two or more tier system. Moreover the 100 percent water rates
increase was still not enough to cover average cost of operation and maintenance and a reasonable
portion of investment costs. Twenty-nine ATWs out of the proposed 33 have been drilled and 25
have been completed, of which only two have been energized until Credit closure. A defined
strategy for their operation has yet to be developed.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
9.         Clarity and Realism. The project objectives were clear, realistic and important for the
irrigation sub-sector of Uttar Pradesh as it was the first time that the comprehensive rehabilitation
and modernization of a major irrigation system was being attempted in the state. The project
emphasized the priority that GOUP must give to rehabilitation and modernization of existing
irrigation schemes if the state's existing irrigation potential was to be realized in agricultural
benefits muc'i quicker than was possible through politically popular new irrigation investments.
10.       Innovativeness. Although the project was demanding on the implementing Irrigation
Department, it was worthwhile because of the innovative risk aversion component which
differentiated it from other irrigation rehabilitation investments in the rest of the country.
11.       Sectoral Implications. The project also had sectoral implications since there were
several other major canal systems in UP which had to be modernized. The project support has
helped the Irrigation Department to develop its capabilities for planning, design, monitoring and
evaluation of completed works in technical and financial terms. The project has also focused
GOUP's attention on operation and maintenance of existing works which were severely
underfunded.
1 2.      Complexity. The project was complex as it was based on an integrated irrigation
modernization package. This initial project concept was sound, but GOUP did not fully
understand this approach and the initial Bank supervision missions were weak in pushing the idea.
Furthermore, the addition of the MGC component in 1991 obviously expanded the scope of the
project, complicating the already strained budget for local counterpart funds.
13.       Responsiveness to Borrower's Circumstances. The project responded well to
GOUP's emphasis on the acceleration of irrigation in recent Five-Year Plans. In Western Uttar
Pradesh where available surface water resources have been fully committed and groundwater
highly exploited both by the public and private sectors, further expansion in agricultural production
will have to come from more efficient utilization and performance of existing irrigation
investments, as tackled by the UGIMP. The Bank had also scaled down the original project cost
of US$345 million to about US$230 million at appraisal and also extended the project period from
the original 5-1/2 years to 6 years to allow extra time for GOUP to budget for local funds.
14.       Risks. The risk of project failure which could arise from a number of factors
including reduction of water supplies to the UGC System, gradual deterioration or breakdown of
some critical parts of the irrigation system, and weak institutional capability, were safeguarded by
project investments. The risk of GOUP not proceeding with project works after completion of the
first time slice was regarded to be small.



4
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
15.          Overall achievement. The project has partially achieved its physical, sector policy,
and institutional development objectives. Macro-economic policies and financial objectives were
not applicable to this project. There was no coverage of gender issues. Equity was not a stated
objective under the project.
16.          Physical objectives. A  comparative statement of targets and achievements of the
project components as on September 30, 1994, is given below.
Comparative Statement of Targets & Achievements
as of September 30, 1994
'1 arget                                     Achievement as a °/e
Cmponents                   Unit                                    A chievement    of Revised Tareet
SAR          Revised May 93                  r
I Risk Aversion structures
a) Ranipursyphon             %25                   100              100             100
b) Pathri superoassage       _ _   75              100              57              57
c) Ratinau aqueduct          __    82              100              6 1             61
d) Solani aqueduct           lo It0                100               63             63
2. Main Canal PUGC                                                                  l
(a) Earthworks                ml3     3,35)         6.640            5,599           84
(b) Linine                    M2      .1800         S42              428             79
3. Distributarv systems       _        _______
i) Bulandshahr                     _   _
(a) Lining                   In'       549          545             536             t)8
(b) Watercourse modernization  i         478        268              272            101
ii) Harduagani                        l                                             l
(a) Lining                    m-2     827           744             741              99
b) Watercoirse modernization  in       87           300             271              9(
iii)   M achua                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
(a) Lining                    1-2     330           1.012            994             98
() Watercotirse modernization  kii     50           149             137             92
Augimlenitation tubewells  No.       3            29               25r 86
a) Energization              No.      33            29               2             7
5. MGC comipsonent                        _9 I(X)                   I() 1100(
Achievement has exceeded 80 percent of revised targets in all components except energization of
ATWs and risk aversion structures barring Ranipur syphon. The objective of the individual
components and their degree of achievement are discussed below.
17.          The first main objective, which was to carry out 43 percent of risk aversion works in
the upper reach (km 6-36) of UGC, is well underway. The construction of parallel lined canal
with other structures in reach km 6 to 29.64 is 80 percent complete while the work of remodelling
reach km 29.64 to 34.67 passing through Roorkee town has started. The main cross-drainage
structures - Pathri superpassage and aqueducts at Ratmau and Solani - are about 60 percent
complete. All these works were well planned and are being executed with good quality control.
They are, however, not expected to be completed before mid- 1998. The canal system would thus
continue to be at some risk during the next four years.
18.          The second main objective to modernize the canal system  by constructing a parallel
lined canal in reach km 177.5 to 240 to carry all rabi season flows to the UGC system and to
remove capacity constraints in utilization of additional kharif supplies delivered by the MGC
system has been partially achieved. Due to the problem of high water table, a lined parallel canal
with a capacity of 127 cumecs could be constructed only in the reach km 177.5 to 189.5 while an



5
unlined canal with a reduced capacity of 99.20 cumecs for kharif requirements is under
construction in reach km 190.7 to 240.
19.       The third main objective of modernization of the three distributary systems with an
aggregate command area of about 50,000 ha has been substantially achieved and has started
yielding benefits to farmers. About 680 km of watercourses have been lined in the command of
these distiibutaries and the irrigation intensities have increased almost immediately. There would
also be a higher cropping intensity and crop yields with the availability of improved water supply
to farmers including tail-end cultivators. The completion of the balance work of distributaries and
minors on the MGC system would create an additional potential of about 7,000 ha for kharif
irrigation. Fdll benefits and equitable distribution of canal water would be achieved only when
adjustable proportional module (APM) outlets are installed. The IlTigation Department will have to
make a major effort to implement these proposals.
20.        The other project objectives included the installation of ATWs for conjunctive use of
surface and groundwater, which has, so far, not made any impact as only two ATWs have been
energized out of 25 completed ones. The improved canal communication network has not
materialized due to indeicision on the part of GOUP. The limited drainage improvement works
done in the command of modernized distributaries is satisfactory. The MGC works have not
sufficiently progressed to estimate benefits from the sunk investments. Although momentum was
gained during the past two years, parallel Hathras and Mat branches were slowed down and later
suspended.
21.        Objectives of Sector Policies. The sector policies relevant to the project included
improved construction standards, more extensive lining of canals and increased direct water
charges. The first two goals were partially achieved while water charges did not increase since
water rates remained unchanged since 1983.
22.        Institutional Development Objectives. The project impact on institutional development
was mixed. As indicated in Table 5 of Part II, the physical facilities have been completed
(residential and non-residential buildings) or are nearing completion (at WALMI). Vehicles have
also been procured to the extent required, albeit with delays. Staff training has been provided as
planned. WALMI has conducted 25 orientation courses of 6 weeks' duration, 7 induction courses
of 4 months' duLration and 8 1 workshops of a short duration covering such topics as project
management, contract administration and construction supervision to project staff.  The
construction quality and standards have been consistently good in general. Lining of canals is
satisfactory. Various studies listed in Appendix 3 have been undertaken by the Advisory Planning
Group (APG), a consulting firm engaged under the project. In all, 49 study reports were prepared
by APG during their period of engagement (Nov. 85 to April 92), of which 40 have been sent to
the field for implementation; four relating to policy decisions are pending with GOUP and the
remaining five are still with field staff for their comments
23.        Through such studies, APG had suggested improvements in the design and layout of
major works, pattern of development of conjunctive use through ATWs, agricultural studies
including adaptive research program, agricultural extension and design of layout of drainage
works. However, the project's progress is lagging behind and many suggestions that had been
made by APG are yet to be taken up. The gap between recommendations and actions seems to lie
in part in the delayed response by the Irrigation Department ([D) as it generally sends the reports to
the Bank seeking their comments before reviewing the reports themselves first.
24.        There were frequent changes of staff at key levels of management which affected
project implementation. Although top and middle management level posts were satisfactorily



6
manned, vacancies existed in some posts of Assistant Engineers and Junior Engineers. This did
not materially affect the project's progress. There was also inadequate coordination between the
0 & M and Construction Wings of the ID.
25.        Two high-level committees at Government level, one chaired by the Secretary,
Irrigation, to oversee project implementation and the other chaired by the Secretary, Agriculture to
monitor agricultural development were not active as the meetings were held at too long intervals.
26.        Project Impact. The project impact has been evaluated, taking into consideration three
distinct but interrelated benefits:  (a) risk aversion to protect the existing irrigation system
benefiting some 400,000 ha; (b) modernization of the main canal initially improving water supply
to about 270,000 ha; and (c) modernization of the two canal distributary blocks totalling 31,500 ha
(Bulandshahr 12,700 ha and Harduaganj 18,800 ha). When completed, the first two investments
would generate long-term direct benefits to the overall UGC Irrigation System covering about 1.2
million ha; the rehabilitation and modernization of existing works would improve mainly the
quality of irrigation services. The incremental irrigated area commanded by the distributaries
(Bulandshahr and Harduaganj) would be of the order of 1,000 ha (3 percent of the CCA), but the
major benefits would derive from higher cropping intensities, better crop yields, and diversification
to higher-value cropping patterns with the availability of improved water supply, particularly to tail-
end farmers. Water saved from seepage losses would, therefore, be used for better irrigation of
existing areas commanded by the main canal and distributaries as foreseen at appraisal.
27.        It is important to recognize that the comprehensive development of the UGC system
involves a five-stage (30-year) investment program of which the UGIMP is the first time slice. In
view of the interrelationships between the different stages, evaluation in isolation of one of the
stages does not truly reflect all the benefits, given the complementarity of investments in different
stages. At this stage, there is very little information on which to attempt an analysis of the total
program. The analysis has therefore been restricted to a comparison with estimates of the first time
slice made at appraisal. Similar to the methodology adopted at appraisal, completion estimates did
not focus on the full 30-year investment program but on the first time slice which defined the extent
of UGIMP. It also did not include the MGC component. Underlying assumptions about costs and
benefits, and other information supporting the analysis, are shown in Table 9 of Part II and
Appendix 2.
28.        Economic Rates of Return. The current economic rates of return (ERRs) re-estimated
at completion are 12 percent for the risk aversion component, 18 percent for main canal
modernization, 17 percent for the Bulandshahr distributary block and 20 percent for the
Harduaganj distributary block. These are less than the ERRs estimated at appraisal. The four ERR
shortfalls are: for the risk aversion works 3 percent (down from 15 percent at appraisal to 12
percent at completion); for main canal modernization I percent (from 19 percent to 18 percent);
for Bulandshahr distributary I percent (from 18 percent to 17 percent), and for Harduaganj
distributary 5 percent (from 25 percent to 20 percent). The recalculated ERRs are based on actual
costs incurred up to the Credit closing date plus costs to complete works until mid- 1998, and an
actual and updated projection of benefits. Both appraisal and completion estimates of ERRs are
more speculative than usual because they incorporate returns also to investments projected in later
years. The implementation difficulties as evidenced by cost overruns, delays in completion and, in
later years, funding constraints are consistent with diminished project performance. Consequently,
the reduction in ERR estimates is not unexpected, despite higher cropping intensities, better crop
yields and diversification to higher value cropping patterns. There are various factors which have
contributed to the decline of ERRs at completion. Most is caused by the cost overruns and serious
delays in benefit accrual (which could not be offset by improved crop yields and diversification to
higher-value cropping pattern) that mark UGIMP performance.



7
29.        SensitiiWty Analysis. Following appraisal methodology, sensitivity analysis has been
carried out separatelv for three of the four project componenits - main canal modernization, canal
distributary of Bulandshahr and Harduagan.j. The results indicate a reduction in benefits by 20
percent will lower the ERR of canial modernization to 16.7 percenit, the ERR of Bulandshahr
distributary to 14.8 percent and the ERR of Harduaganj distributary to 17.7 percent, while an
increase in cost by 20 percent will lower the ERR of canal modernization to 16.9 percent, the ERR
of B1.landshalir distributary to 1 5 percent and the ERR of Harduaganj distributary to 18 percent.
The project componenits are therefore not sensitive to variations in either benefits or costs.
30.        Farm Incomes and Impact on Poverty. Fariml income analysis is based on the
assumption made at appraisal that the basic objective of moderilizing the existing system is to
provide a timely and reliable ir-igationi service and increase water supplies to all beneficiaries. The
project irmpact on farm incomes has therefore been made with faim location rather than holding size
as the dorninant variable. The effect on farm incomes has been analyzed for a typical farm of I ha
at the head and tail reaches of Bulandshiahr and Harduaganj distributaries. Typical farm budgets
are given in Appendix 2. Tables 9 and 10 and incremental farin incomes are summarized below.
Farm Incomes
Incremental  Farm
Incomes
Distributary Command       At Appraisal                             At Completion
(1984 prices)       (1994 prices)        (1994 prices)
(Rs)               (s
Bulandslhahr               _                    _
- Head Reach               2.(1                4.370               .860
- Tail Reach               3,000(              6,555                6,750
Harduaganij
- Head Reach               1.8((               3.930                4.030
- Tail Reach               2,500               5,460)               5,690
3 1.       Farm incomes for both reaches (head and tail) have increased as a result of the project.
This indicates that there is scope for- additional efforts in cost recovery. The farmers located at the
tail of the distributary systems would experience a comparatively higher income increase than those
at the head. Incomes of the average family on farming units of one ha have recorded noticeable
increases. Thus, the project would improve incomes and reduce poverty for many farmers. There
will be small farmers cultivating areas of less than one ha which cannot provide sufficient cash
flow even at full development to sustain the family. The project provided for a baseline socio-
economic survey of farmers and follow-up surveys to provide sufficient database for a realistic
assessment. Although the baseline survey was carried out, no follow-up surveys were conducted
and there is no reliable data to determine the project impact oni smaller farmers.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
32.        Implementation Record. The project experienced an initial delay of two years due to
forest clearance for felling of trees on the canal right of way and a further 1-1/2 years in procedural
matters relating to international and local competitive bidding (ICB and LCB), thereby limiting



8
effective implementation to about 6-1/2 years. The UGIMP was not expected to complete all the
specific works; in the case of risk aversion works, its structures were expected to be 43 percent
complete by September 30, 1990 and 100 percent by September 30, 1996; its main canal (km 36-
189.5) 54 percent complete by mid-1998, construction of ATWs by September 30, 1990, and
completion of modernization of Bulandshahr and Harduaganj distributaries also by September 30.
1994.
33.        As indicated in para 16, the modernization of distributaries turned out to be successful
inspite of delays in the completion of the risk aversion and parallel canal works, and also inspite of
delays in the completion of the telecommunication system, augmentation tubewells, and of some
fine tuning works in the distribution networks. The modernization of distributaries has positively
contributed to the ultimate objective of the project, i.e. increased irrigated agricultural production
and farmers' incomes. There is every reason to believe that irrigated agricultural production will
further increase as soon as the delayed activities are completed. At credit closure, the project
success has been only partial and it is important that remaining works on main canal, conjunctive
use, telecommunication and institutional strengthening, as planied at appraisal are continued to
completion in order to achieve full development objectives.
34.        The main contributory factors for these implementation shortfalls are:
(a)    Factors not generally subject to Government control. These include mainly
civil disturbances.
(b)    Factors generally subject to Government control. These include contiactual
implementation issues, the latter substantially delaying excavation and lining
of PUGC (km 177.5 to 240), inadequate funding in the initial years, farmers
tampering with government property, continued indecision on the part of the
GOUP to take prompt action in resolving issues (Pathri structure), late
issuance (involving almost two years) of forest clearance for felling of trees
on the canal right of way, late approval of APG consultants by one year,
slow land acquisition, and lack of adequate policy for resettling canal
displaced persons. These have substantially delayed the implementation of
the project.
(c)    Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. These include time
taken in processing changes in designs and amendment of contracts for the
Solani aqueduct and construction of PIJGC in the reach km 189.5 to 240,
and in t'ixing alternative contiact for the constiuctioni of the Pathri
superpassage after rescindinig the original contract, delays in the finalization
of the planninig and design for modernization of the 3.6 km Roorkee reach of
UGC, delays in implementing drainage works, lack of progress in the
construction of the augmentation tubewells and in the provision of tele-
communications facilities, delays in resolution of land acquisition cases in the
Bulandshahr reach of PUGC and in MGC, slow implementation of adaptive
research and agricultural extension programs, lack of coordination among
O & M staft' and construction staff in the modernization of dlistributarles, the
slow pace of procurement in the MGC system, and frequent turnovel- of key
project staff. The combined efl'ect of these factors has prevented GOUP from
achieving progress at a higher pace.



9
35.        Implementation Delays. The project was to be implemented over six years from
September 1984 to September 1990, with a closing date of September 30, 1991. After three one-
year extensions, it was closed on September 30, 1994. The initial setback in implementation of
two years was due to delays in official clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forest for
the felling of trees in the canal right-of-way and a further 1-1/2 years from ICB and LCB
procedures, which was exacerbated by local funding constraints in initial years. Current estimates
indicate that the final construction of project works is not likely to be completed until mid-1998,
although the Credit was closed on September 30, 1994.
36.        Project implementation has continuously experienced problems, having been rated '2'
since incepticn in October 1984-October 1985, when its rating dropped to '3' for six months
before improving to '2' until Credit closure. Several factors nave contributed to this modest
performance and the delays in project implementation (see para 34).
37.        The major delays arose from slow land acquisition and inadequate land compensation,
lack of policy for resettling canal affected persons, poor performance of contractors and ID's
inability to quickly resolve claims from contractors which, in turn, led to lengthy court actions.
These factors have seri usly delayed the implementation of several major works. In the case of
Solani and Ratmau aqueducts, though the ID had changed design specifications, it took about a
year to readjust contract prices accordingly. In the case of the Pathri superpassage, the contract
had to be rescinded and retendered. Three out of four major ICB contractors, who were to
construct the PUGC from km 117.5 to 240, stopped construction work for more than three years
because of court litigations with the ID. They have now resumed excavations but it is not likely
that they will be able to complete the lining work. These claims and litigations are largely due to:
(a) inadequate survey and design of the works to be carried out leading to revisions in
specifications and quantities; (b) lack of appreciation of the difficulties of some works leading to
inadequate cost estimates resulting in underestimation by most contractors of the nature and cost of
works and their opting for work stoppage rather than proceeding with a money-losing venture; (c)
inadequate pre-qualification procedures as confirmed by the poor performance of many large ICB
contractors. It is interesting to note that medium size LCB contractors have performed better than
the larger ICB contractors.
38.        Though the SAR had stipulated the full lining of the PUGC in reach km 190.5 to 240,
the Bank agreed in July 1993 to change the design specifications from fully lined to partially lined
(sides only) canal because of the high water table prevailing in this reach. This decision was based
on the major problem of dewatering in cut section adjacent to the existing unlined main canal which
was encountered in reach km 177.5 to 190 and also on the fact that the lining in high water table
sections required the provision of weep holes and drainage arrangements which considerably
reduced the water tightness of the canals. The advice of the World Bank for lining this reach of
PUGC with side lining has still not been implemented, at the time of the ICR mission, due to
delays and some further complications expected from the contractors who were not equipped for
carrying out excavation and lining in high water table sections.
39.        The concept of augmentation tubewells has failed to a large extent. First, because they
were not immediately put into operation and, second, because some were installed along
distributaries which run in two weeks out of five rotations during rabi. The ID is not clear as to
whether they should be used as augmentation tubewells or they should be handed over to
farmers/farmer groups for direct use. A defined strategy has still not been developed, although the
Bank has recommended direct use by farmers' groups.
40.        Actual Project Cost. Table 8A of Part II gives a comparative statement of appraisal
estimates and final costs. The project, as envisaged at appraisal as a first time slice, was only



10
partially completed by the Credit closing date of September 30, 1994. When allowance is made for
costs to complete, the total final cost would amount to Rs.7,075 million (US$283 million),
representing a 183 percent cost overrun in nominal rupee terms or 55 percent in real rupee terms.
Expressed in US dollars reflecting the depreciation of the rupee against the US dollar, the total
overrun would be only about 22 percent. As shown in Appendix 4, the cost overrun was caused
mainly by price escalation (128 percent) and partly by quantity changes (55 percent). In particular,
Solani and Ratmau aqueducts have undergone several design and related quantity changes as well
as readjustment of contract prices accordingly.
41.        The cost of engineering and administration increased in nominal terms by 695 percent,
followed by WALMI (233 percent), main canal (136 percent), ATWs (127 percent), modernization
of distribution systems (119 percent) and residential buildings (49 percent), over the respective
appraisal estimates.
42.        Project Financing. Credit disbursements have been claimed only from the third
quarter of 1986 and have lagged well behind actual expenditures, before gaining momentum since
1992. Consequently, the Credit was able to finance about 44 percent of total project cost compared
to 54 percent envisaged at appraisal.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
43.        The project is associated with ERRs that are consistent with sustainable economic
performance. However, project sustainability hinges on: (a) ensuring adequate provision of
O & M funding; (b) having trained staff in place together with adequate equipment to maintain the
system; and (c) obtaining active local support for the project through farmers' organizations or
otherwise, to realize water management objectives. The key to securing adequate 0 & M funding
would be the revision of water rates and improved water management. No revision of water
charges has taken place since 19831 and GOUP has not complied with any of the cost recovery
covenants except for the study carried out by the Advisory Planning Group. A related issue is the
active establishment of farmers' organizations able and willing to take over water management.
Farmers need to be motivated and prepared for this task through non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) or other voluntary organizations and then given proper training and technical assistance
probably through WALMI on water management among themselves. These are major challenges
facing GOUP in order to sustain irrigation development through the ongoing rehabilitation and
modernization activities. As a first time slice (of six years) of a longer term investment program, it
is still too early to address the sustainability of UGIMP. Evaluation of follow-up phases should
provide further opportunity for review.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
Identification and Preparation
44.        The Bank involvement during the project preparation stage has resulted in
considerable cost savings through more effective planning and design. It has also focused
GOUP's attention on 0 & M of existing works which, except for establishment costs, were
severely underfunded. The Bank's involvement has also emphasized the priority that GOUP must
1   The Principal Secretary indicated that as on October 17, 1994, the Government has taken a decision
to increase the water rates. the extent of which is not known yet.



give to rehabilitation and modernization of existing irrigation schemes if the State's irrigation
potential were to be translated into agricultural benefits. Preparation assistance to the Government
commenced in September 1979 with the first Bank mission of two members (economist and
irrigation engineer), t'ollowed by I I other preparation assistance missions composed mainly of
economists, groundwater specialists and irrigation engineers. An innovative aspect of project
identification which differentiates it from other irrigation rehabilitation projects is its 'risk aversion'
component. The Bank's performance in project identification and preparation was generally
satisfactory.
Appraisal
45.        The performance of the Bank at appraisal was mixed. Overall, appraisal has
established clear project objectives consistent with sectoral strategy. Two preappraisal and one
appraisal miission with the participation of 6. 8 and 7 professional specialists have carried out a
thorough review of the project concept and components. The missions were fairly well balanced
and represented in relevant disciplines - economics, engineering (irrigation, groundwater,
electrical), agriculture. agricultural research, agricultural extension and water management.
However, the lack of proper field investigations and designs at appraisal stage seriously hampered
project implementation.
46.        Design. The project was designed as the first time slice (of 6 years) of a 30-year
development program. Although the provision of an efficient irrigation service to farmers was the
overriding goal, the project incorporated covenants to improve complementary investments in
adaptive research and extension to maximize production benefits.
47.        Technical. Improved construction standards and extensive lining of canals to
minimize seepage losses were special features of the project. The studies on seepage loss as done
on the Harduaganj distributary and its minors (Parethi, Bara and Manau) indicate a reduction of
more than 50 percent in seepage losses as a result of lining of minors, and conveyance efficiency
of lined watercourses is estimated at 90 percent compared to 78 percent for unlined watercourses.
48.        Institutional. The Bank has correctly identified the need for and provided technical
assistance (in the form of APG) in order to improve ID's sectoral and project planning, evaluation,
monitoring and management (including 0 & M) and to assist in areas requiring specialized skills
like drainage. This was made based on the assessment of the ID's capacity to implement the
project successfully. In addition, institutional improvements were also financed under the project.
49.        Environment. The Bank did not recognize the risk that canal construction would
result in displacement of families and this would delay project implementation. This occurred as a
result of land acquisition problems in Nidhauli and Chitti villages, which has delayed completion
of canals. Further efforts are required to improve communication between ID staff and Nidhauli
villagers. Land cases in Chitti village are now before the High court, which had placed a 'stay
order' in 1989. In addition to the issues of canal affected persons, the lack of forest clearance at
the time of negotiations and Board presentation led to a two-year delay in project implementation.
50.        Skill Mix of the Appraisal Team. The appraisal team comprised seven members
representing specialized skills and generally well balanced with representation covering irrigation
engineering, groundwater technology, electrical engineering, agricultural research, agriculture,
water management and economics. The addition of a rural sociologist would have strengthened the
team and possibly recognized the risk of displacement of families from construction of canals.



12
Supervision
51.       The performance of the supervision missions was mixed. They failed to push the
integrated approach of the project. The supervision missions should also have paid more attention
to the problems of land acquisition and canal affected persons earlier during project
implementation. The participation of a rural sociologist would have been helpful. The
restructuring exercise, requested by the Borrower and approved by the Bank, was also not
adequate. First, it overburdened an already stretched budget and second, it did not provide
adequate extension of time for the completion of the additional components. Twenty supervision
missions were fielded over 10 years from October 1984 to September 1994, at an average of one
every six months. The staff employed on supervision were skilled in most of the relevant technical
and economic areas but less skilled with respect to expertise in resettlement. The extent of
continuity of staffing during implementation is reflected in the fact that over 80 percent of the
project supervision missions had at least one staff member in each mission. All except three
missions had at least two staff members.
52.       The supervision missions have adequately reported implementation progress,
identified implementation problems and provided follow-up advice. The problem of land
acquisition in Chitti village and the 'stay order' by the High court was, however, not known to the
supervision mission until the joint mission with the ICR team in September 1994. The Bank staff
showed flexibility in suggesting or approving needed modifications and the relationship between
the Bank and the implementing agency was cordial.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Preparation
53.        Preliminary project preparation was carried out by GOUP's technical departments in
close coordination with the Central Water Commission of GOI. A consultancy firm in New Delhi
was retained to prepare the project feasibility report, and an identification report in November
1980, which was followed by a comprehensive UGC feasibility report in December 1982. Based
on these reports, the project was sensibly restricted to a rehabilitation and modernization program.
Thus, the Borrower and the implementing agency had done a satisfactory job in preparing the
project.
Implementation
54.       The performance of GOUP and the implementing agencies was deficient in the actual
implementation of the project for reasons within and beyond their control (see para 34). The major
problems which have impeded implementation progress include:
Implementation Shortfalls:
(a)    There were slippages in the planned schedules for Solani and Ratmau
aqueducts as explained in para 35. However, the delays originated in a
change in Solani acqueduct consultants and design which was not warranted.
(b)    The work in reach km 189.5 to 195 was started in March 1989 but the
contractor left the work after doing 40 percent of the earthworks. The
agreement was rescinded in June 1992 and the balance of the work is being
done departmentally. Similarly, the contractors in reach km 197 to 240



13
started the work in April 1989 but left it incomplete after doing 40-48 percent
of the earthworks. They have now resumed the work after prolonged
litigation over three years. It has been observed that the packages of work
were too big to be completed on time. The progress would have been much
better if small packages were made for such labor-intensive work.  The
mobilization advance clause needs amendment to ensure that the funds
advanced are actually used for the project. All the masonry works except for
two bridges have been completed. The balance of work in this reach is
scheduled to be completed by 1995-96.
Quality Control:
The quality of construction has been generally good in both the UGC and
MGC components. The quality of lining of Machua Distributary and tail
regulator of Mat Feeder branch canal has also been well done. The quality
control units are carrying out adequate tests and are maintaining field records
properly. In view of the importance of the new Solani and Ratmau aqueducts
which are executed under pre-stressed concrete technology and also to
safeguard them against bad workmanship/quality, a special quality control
unit for these works has been established and trained. This unit is exercising
the required checks and is ensuring the high quality of concrete work.
Seepage losses:
No studies for actual seepage loss in PUGC have been made although it was
anticipated that the present seepage loss in PUGC of 8.5 cusecs/M sq.ft will
be reduced to 2.0 cusecs/M sq.ft in PUGC. In 1988, seepage loss studies
were carried out by UP Irrigation Research Institute in reach km 177.5 to 240
of UGC and the losses were of the order of 5 cusecs/M sq.ft of wetted
perimeter.
Modernization of Distributary Systems:
(a)    The physical achievement of lining on three distributary systems is almost on
target and the engineering works have been well executed. However, the
objectives of modernization have only been partially achieved as yet. The
modernization aimed at:  (i) rationalization of various canal command
elements; (ii) elimination of direct outlets from main, branch and major
distributary canal where possible; (iii) lining of canals to reduce seepage
losses; (iv) provision of improved regulation structures to control water
delivery within the system; and (v) provision of escape structures.
(b)    There is no improvement in the command of the distributaries except
Harduaganj where the full supply level (FSL) has been raised to command an
additional CCA of 1,147 ha. There is no change in CCA of the Bulandshahr
and Machua distributaries. There are still certain areas which are being
irrigated by pumping canal water as before. However, due to higher FSL
during kharif, the lift area which is 7 percent during rabi, gets reduced to 2.5
percent during kharif. There is no shifting of outlets from the main
distributary, and no change in type of outlets from non-modular to modular.
The head regulators have not been replaced and equipped with flow
measuring devices and other hydraulic structures have been remodelled



14
instead of replaced. No meter flumes or silt ejectors have been constructed.
The head of minors needs to be equipped with standing wave flumes and
modernization works carried out from head to tail in order to ensure early
benefits. However, due to lining of canals there will be extra availability of
water due to reduction of seepage losses, extra running days during rabi,
conversion of lift areas to flow irrigation, better cropping pattern and
intensities of irrigation in the next few years.
Funding of Operation and Maintenance:
The lined distributaries and minors are not all being maintained properly.
Heavy vegetation is allowed to take root in some cases which will damage the
lining laid with considerable cost. It is important that maintenance of the
lined system is upgraded by providing adequate 0 & M funds.
Modernization of Watercourses:
The physical targets for the lining of water courses have been scaled down
from 1,615 km at appraisal to 717 km. The progress of 680 km is therefore
not considered satisfactory. The watercourses have been lined in length
varying from 63 percent to 84 percent in Bulandshahr distributary and 61
percent to 100 percent in Harduaganj distributary, and there has been a
substantial reduction in seepage losses after lining.
Augmentation Tubewells (ATWs):
ATWs were planned along all main canals, branches, as well as
distributaries, up to 20 percent of the head discharge capacity of each canal.
Thirty-three ATWs with a total yield of 2.2 cumecs were planned along the
modernized Bulandshahr and Harduaganj distributaries as a pilot project.
The work of drilling started in 1987 but only 29 ATWs of 1.5 cusecs
capacity each have been drilled and developed along these distributaries, out
of which 25 have been completed up to September 1994 but only two ATWs
have been energized. The actual spacing of these tubewells varies from 2 to 4
km, against the prescribed spacing of I km which would have facilitated
economical energization through the same sub-station.
Hydro-electric Stations:
As stated in para 5, the Pathri and Palra hydro-electric stations were deleted in
consultation with Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board (UPSEB). UPSEB
felt that these stations could still continue to be operated and it would be
uneconomical to replace them.  However, the Paira power station is now
completely out of commission and defunct.
Canal Telecommunications System:
Despite a decade duration of the project, GOUP has not been able to make
even a start in the establishment of a modern telecommunications network, so
essential to improve the canal system operations and management efficiency.
Initially, Telecommunication India Ltd., was chosen in 1989 but when the
report and cost estimates (Rs. 165 million) were furnished, it was considered



15
too high and the project abandoned. Later, at the initiative of the Bank,
National Informatics Center (NIC) which provided a least cost alternative for
a more efficient and versatile system with satellite facilities through its
NICNET (NIC Network), was approached resulting in protracted
correspondence and consultation. The ID had been corresponding with some
private concerns for cheaper systems. After comparison with various offers,
NIC was finally chosen a week before the closure of the project and the
proposal sent to the Bank with inadequate processing and inconsistencies.
The Bank, therefore, was unable to clear the proposal and thus the
component has remained unimplemented.
Adaptive Research and Agricultural Extension:
There has been a slow implementation of the adaptive research and agriculture
extension program under the project. These activities were started in 1990-91
but have been completed only recently. Adaptive research and water
management studies in the commands of Bulandshahr and Harduaganj
distributaries have been carried out by the research stations under two
Agriculture Universities in the project area, and their progress reports issued
in September 1994. The field trials of adaptive research were impressive.
The farmers have reported an increase in production up to 33 percent.
Madhva Ganga Canal Component:
(a)    The Madhya Ganga canal joins the Upper Ganga canal at km 190.7 of UGC
and feeds 4,655 cusecs to it at this location during the kharif season. Part of
this is utilized in the distributaries taking off from UGC and the balance is
taken through a newly constructed Mat feeder from km 240 of UGC to Mat
and Hathras branches of UGC and the canals taking off from Mat feeder.
The balance of work under the Madhya Ganga canal project was therefore
included in the ongoing UGJMP to maximize benefits from the sunk
investment in the MGC system.
(b)    The works on Lakhaoti system, Mat branch feeder, its distributaries and
minors have been completed. Water has been let into the Mat branch feeder
up to its tail and Amarpur distributary with Madrok and other minors has
been commissioned for kharif irrigation for the first time in 1994. The
parallel Mat feeder and parallel Hathras branches have remained incomplete
due to the indecision of GOUP with regard to resumption of the suspended
works.
Commitment:
There was commitment by GOUP as evidenced by the full allocation of
counterpart funds in the initial years of the project, which was, somewhat,
reduced by starting too many discrete projects, thereby thinly spreading the
limited local funds. The commitment of beneficiaries depended on the
incentives provided by a reliable, timely and equitable irrigation service to be
provided by the project with complementary support from agricultural
services. These were partially provided under thie project, albeit with long
delays.



16
55.        Covenant Compliance. Compliance with covenants was, by and large, satisfactory.
Covenants dealing with water charges were not fully complied with except the completion of the
study. The establishment and recovery of water charges to cover the full costs of operation and
maintenance (O & M) plus a reasonable portion of capital cost, was not fully achieved. While
GOUP have increased water rates by 100 percent, this was still not enough to cover average cost
of operation and maintenance and a reasonable portion of investment costs. This has been a long-
standing and pervasive problem in India. Attempts to resolve the problem at the level of individual
projects have met with negligible success. The covenant dealing with ATWs was complied with
partially as only two ATWs have so far been energized.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
56.        The project's outcome is rated satisfactory on the basis of improved agricultural
production in the pilot distributary commands and despite the fact that the risk aversion and parallel
canal works were not completed. The reason for this ranking is that the ultimate goal of this
irrigation project is not so much whether all project components have been completed on time but
whether agricultural production and consequently farmers' incomes have increased or are likely to
continue to increase. Since increased agricultural production has been observed both by the last
supervision and the ICR missions in the pilot distributaries, it is logical to conclude that the major
project objective has been achieved and that the overall project development rating as satisfactory.
57.       It should be noted, however, that the project implementation progress was only
partially satisfactory for the reasons described In paras 34 and 37. It is clear that modernization
activities should continue beyond the simple upgrading of the distributary networks to achieve full
development objectives. For example, it is important that the UGIMP should continue to develop
the works on the main canal, conjunctive use, telecommunciation, and institutional strengthening
as intended at appraisal.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
58.        The Irrigation Department has planned to complete the remaining works in its first
time slice operation by 1998/99.  It is essential for GOUP to provide adequate funds for
completion and thereafter for operation and maintenance of completed works. Another priority is
to arrange a review of augmentation tubewells and develop a strategy for their operation. The
lining of PUGC in reach km 177.5 to 190.7 needs to be completed on a priority basis to allow this
segment of lined canal to become operational for all rabi flows of the UGC system as envisaged.
GOUP plans to review the design of PUGC in reach km 190.7 to 240, to at least partially line it
(sides only) to carry 127 cumecs, matching the capacity of reach kin 177.5 to 190.7. Risk
aversion works in the head reach and regulatory structures on modernized distributaries and minors
will have to be expeditiously completed to achieve proper regulation of canal supplies. Similarly,
the pipe outlets need to be replaced with APM outlets to ensure equitable distribution of water in
various reaches of the lined channels and watercourses. GOUP has indicated that it would take
effective measures to control unauthorized irrigation from the modernized distributaries so that all
cultivators may get their proper share of canal supplies for their fields.
59.        The Irrigation Department is advised to monitor project impact using such measures as
irrigation system performance indicators supplemented by cropping patterns, cropped areas,
cropping intensities and crop yield according to crops and by seasons.



17
1. LESSONS LEARNED
60.        The main lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a)    As in many other projects in India, part of the reason for partial completion of
the project in UP is due to the allocation of counterpart funds among too
many projects. It is essential that the scale of the project be tailored to the
availability of financial resources of the government and to match institutional
capabilities. Where design is so done and yet financial constraints intervene
midway during implementation, the Bank should be prudent in accepting
Borrower's request to expand the project scope merely to absorb some cost
savings.
(b)    When project is restructured late during the implementation period (as is the
case with the addition of MGC system), extension must be for a full three or
four years and not year by year to allow for adequate budgeting over the
planned period by the Government
(c)    It is essential to have proper designs and adequate investigations of major
structures available for review during appraisal and in any case prior to
negotiations.
(d)    There is a need for future projects to resolve the problem of inadequate O&M
funding aid the related issues of level of water charges and collection rates.
These wil have to be seriously addressed under larger Water Resources
Consolidation or National Water Management projects.
(e)    In addition to the usual arbitrati( n and court procedures for resolving disputes
between implementing agencies uid their contractors, future projects should
consider setting up high-power di spute resolution committees at Government
level. The role of these committees would be to take quick decisions when
conflicts arise. In case of persistent disagreements, court action should
remain the last resort for contractors.
(t)    The adequacy of ATWs and the related issue of dedicated power lines raise
further questions. These concepts have become either obsolete or inadequate
for conjunctive use in the light of current experience of farmers' operated
tubewells. Only in special cases where high groundwater levels and salinity
must be controlled departmentally, should they be used.
(g)    Turnover rate of key senior-level staff must be minimized if the benefits of
project training and efficiency in implementation are to be realized.
(h)    There is a need to have an up-front environmental clearance and an adequate
land acquisition and rehabilitation policy for canal affected persons. These
issues are better treated in recent projects through more precise Operational
Guidelines.
(i)    In-depth monitoring is an essential tool for improving project performance
and for providing reliable data for estimation of project benefits. Follow-up
surveys should therefore be encouraged.



18
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substantia1     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
(1)          (1)                        ( )
Macro policies                      E            E             El
Sector policies                      O                         E Ol
Financial objectives                El           E             El
Institutional development           E                          El           El
Physical objectives                  Ol          [3            00
Poverty reduction                   E            El            El
Gender issues                                                                7 E  E  O
Other social objectives             El           E             E7
Environmental objectives            El           E             E7
Public sector management            E            El            El
Private sector development          E            El            El
Other (specify)                     E            E             E            E
B. Proiect sustainahility             Likelv       Unlikel    Uncertain
(I)          (/)          (/)
ilighlv
C. Bank performance                  satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Deficient
V)           V)           /)
IdentiFication                      EL                         El
Preparation assistance              E                          El
Appraisal                           E             E             71
Supervision                         E            E              O
/ See para 43 in Part I.



19
Highly
D. Borrower performance               satisfactorv   Satisfactory   Deficient
V)           (/)         V)
Preparation                         E           Z             m
Implementation                      E           E             W
Covenant compliance                F7                        ED
Operation (if applicable)           O           F            F
HighWl                                     HiRhly
E. Assessment of outcome           satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
V)           V)             V)              V)
C1    r                     C              CA



20
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title               Purpose              Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations
1. UP Public Tubewell     Construct 500 public tubewells;   1980            Closed. PCR issued
Project (Cr.1004-IN)    dcmonstrate & evaluate the                        Sept. 1985.
US$18 M                 relative merits of a number of
technical and operational
improvements to the design of
existing tubewell systems in the
state.
2. UP Second Public       Construct improved public      1983               Closed. PCR issued
Tubewell Project        tubewells system, modernize                       Dec. 1992.
(Cr.1332-IN) US$101 M    existing standard tubewells &
connection to exclusive 11 kV
feeder lines of existing standard
tubewell systems.
3. National Agricultural  Help strengthen agricultural                      Closed. PCR issued
Research Project        research at State agricultural                    June 1990.
(Cr.855-IN) US$27 M     universities.
Followinig operations
1. National Water         Increase agricultural output   1987               Ongoing
Management Project      providing farmers with more
(Cr.1770-lN) USS114 M    reliable & predictable irrigated
supply.
2. National Agricultural  Strengthen location-specific   1985               Ongoing
Research Project        research at the level of the
(Cr.1631-IN) USS72.1 M   agro-climatic zones of India,
providing needed field-oriented
research support to the ongoing
projects.
3. UP Sodic Lands         Develop concomitant models     1993               Ongoing
Reclamation Project     for environmental protection
(Cr.2510-IN) US$54.7 M   and improved agricultural
production through large-scale
reclamation of sodic lands.
4. National Agricultural  Introduce T & V system in      1987               Ongoing
Extension Project III   Himachal Pradesh and Uttar
(Cr.1754-IN) US$85 M    Pradesh; further strengthen the
reorganized agricultural
extension and linkages between
extension & research in Assam,



21
Table 3: Project Timetable
.                        t          Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                        Date planned                latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                                  April 1983"
Preparation                                                          -                   Sept.79/May 8321
Appraisal                                                      Jan. 1, 1984                Jan.-Feb. 1984
Negotiations                                                         -                    16-25 April 1984
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                       N.A.                         N.A.
Board presentation                                                                         May 24, 1984
Signing                                                   _                                June 29, 1984
Effectiveness                                                   Aug.1984                   Sept.21, 1984
First tranche release (if applicable)                              N. A.                        N. A.
Midterm review (if applicable)                                     N.A.                         N.A.
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)                 N.A.                         N.A.
Project completion                                            Sept.30, 1990                Sept.30, 1993
Loan closing3"                                                Sept.30, 1991                Sept.30, 1994
N.A. - Not applicable.
l An identification report was prepared by WAPCOS in N nvember 1980.
2' Various supporting studies have been completed since Ncvember 1980 including a comprehensive groundwater
model and WAPCOS produced a five volume UGC feasit-lity report in December 1982. The recommendations
of this report were reviewed by the Bank and used as the basis for discussions with GOUP/GOI during
preparation and preappraisal missions which visited UP in May and September 1983; overall, preparation took
about 4 years.
Revised to 09/30/92, 09/30/93 and 09/30/94.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88   FY89    FY90           FV91     FY9'    FY93       FY94    FY95
Appraisal     1,300   11,300   28,800   50,000   73,000  96,000   119,000   125,000   125.0 )0  125,000   125,000  125,000
Actual          -       -       8,071    21.227   29,344  33,763   47,153    71,373    92.091   108,463   123,785  126,760
Actual as%      -       -        28       42       40      35       40       57        74       87        99      101"
of estimate
Date of final disbursement 24 Feb 1995
"Represents depreciation of US dollar against SDR. A total of SDR94.38 million was disbursed, which is equivalent to USS126,760,000.



22
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation                                                    Estimate                                Actual
indicators in SAR/
President's Report                             Unit       SAR Target        Revised Itarget       Cumulative         % of Revised
(Mav 93)         Achievements           Target
1. Main Canal - km 6-36 PUGC
a) Earthworks                                 tim3            4,456              6,448               6.285                97
b) Lining                                     tin2             650               1.155                 915                79
c) Risk aversion structures
- Ranipur Syphon                                %               25                 100                 100               100
- Pathri Superpassage                           7C              75                 100                 57                 57
- Ratmau Aqueduct                                               82                 100                 61                 61
- Solani Aqueduet                                              100                 100                 63                 63
2. Main Canal - km 177.5-240 PUGC
a) Earthworks                                  trm3           3.350              0.640               5,599                84
b) Lining                                      tIm2           1.800               547                  428                79
3. Main Canal - km 240-2901/ PUGC
a) Earthworks                                  tIn3            700                 -                   -                   -
b) Lining                                      tm2              70                 100                  95                95
4. Distributary Systems
i) Bulandshahr Dy.
a) Lining                                      tm2             549                545                  536                98
b) Watercourse modn.                           km              478                268                  272                101
ii) Hlarduaganj Dy
a) Lining                                      tm2             827                 744                 741                99
h) Watercourse modn.                           km              987                3K)                  271                90
iii) Machwa Dy.
a) Lining                                      tm2             330               1.012                 994                98
b) Watercourse modn.                            km             150                 149                 137                92
5. Completed ATWs                              No.              33                  29                  2S                86
6. Drainage Improvement                        km               (4                 171                 143                84
7. Residential Bldgs.                          No.            1.594              1.274               1.274                100
8. WALMI                                                         00                100                  63                63
9. Technical Serviecs                                           100                100                 83                 83
1/ Mainly engineering investigations are being done.



23
Estimate                                     Actual
Kcy Implementation                  Unit   Quantity projected     Quantity as per    Cumulative      Cumulative                   l
indicators in SAR/                           at time of project    Implementation    forecast up   Achievements   Achievement
Prcsrdent's Report                            restructuring in    Schedule for FTS      to 9/94       up to 9/94        against
l _________________________________                 2/90             revised   in  8/94                                  forecast
Items included in Credit Agreement   __l
1. Main Canal and Branches
i) Madhya Ganga Canal                       X
a) Earthworks                     tm                2405.00               196.00        196.00          191.50         98
b) Lining                         km2                  4.73                 2.48          2.48            2.51        101
c) Masonry works                  No.                 12.00                 8.00          8.00            8.25        103
ii) Lakhaoti Branch
a) Earthworks                     im3                432.00                91.00         91.00           86.00         95
b) Masonry works                  No.                  3.00                 3.00          3.00            3.00        100
iii) Mat. Branch Feeder                                          ____        323__0        323_00
a) Earthworks                     tm                 333.00               323.00       323.00           300.00         93
b) Lining                         km2                  5.00                               -               -            -
c) Masonry work                   No.                  4.00                 4.00          3.90            3.90        100
d) Railway bridge                 No.                  1.00                 1.00          1.00            1.00        100
2. Distributaries and Minors
i)  Lakhaoti Branch                                                        3         _980_00_3_980_00_4_079_00____2
a) Earthworks                                      6,017.00             3,980.00      3,980.00        4,079.00        102
b) Masonry work                   No.              3,412.00             2.403.00      2,403.00        2,629.25        109
ii) Mat. Branch Feeder System            _
a) Earthworks                     t r               1,713.00            1.007.00      1,007.00         1,058.00       105
b) Masonry work                   No.               1,121.00             424.50        424-50           457.25        108
3. Works on UGC
i)  Parailcl Mat B3ranch                                          __
a) Earthworks                     tm                 946.00               200.00       200.00           200.00        100
h) Masonry work                   No.                 44.00                 5.00         5.00             5.00        100
ii) Parallel 1lathras Branch
a) Earthworks                     tm               2,813.00               115.00        115.00          115.00        100
b) Masonry work                   No.                130.50                 0.50          0.50            0.50        100
4. Drains                             km                 468.00                3.00          3.00             3.00        100
5. Watercourses                       km               8.218.00              596.60        596.60           616.20        103
lIcms not included in Credit
Agrcemcnt
1. I Icadworks                       -                   LS                  100.00        100.00           97.00         97
2. Works of UGC System
i)  Parallel Feeder                   S                  LS                  100.00        10(0.0O          100.00        100
ii) Dys. & Minors of UGC              17o                LS                  100.00        100 00             9.00         9
iii) Remodclling of Mat. Branch                                           _                              _
a) Earihworks                                        764.00               323.00       32s.00           318.00         98
b) Masonry work                   No.                 58.00                 -             -               -
iv) Remodelling of llathras Branch
a) Earthworks                     trmn               526.00               330.00        330.00          319.00         97
b) Masonry work                   No.                                       .             .
v) Anupshahar Branch 
a) Earthworks                                      2,204.00               576.00                        555.00         96
b) Masonry work                   No.                173.00                68.00         68.00           58.50         86
3. Land                               ha               1,940.00              759.00        767.00           753.00         98
4. Other Items                       job                 LS                  100.00        100.00           100.08        100
OVERALL                               %                                      100.00         98.00            98.00        100



24
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not identified at appraisal)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purposc as defined
Study               at appraisal/rcdefined             Status               Impact of study
1. Agricultural & Socio-   To carry out socio-cconomic        Completcd          Negligible, as follow-up
cconomic Studies        surveys of farmers bcnefiting                          surveys were not
from the project.                                      carried out as proposed
in the SAR.
2. Management of Irriga-  Review existing rules,              Completed           Partial, as the study has
tion Schemes undcr      procedures and requirements                            provided somc
the projcct             for the general management                             guidance matcrial for
of the V(GC system,                                    use by staff of the
including routine operation                            Irrigation Dept.
and preventive maintenancc
of the project.
3. Irrigation watcr       ro formulate an appropriate         Completed           Negligible, as water
charge system           water charge system for                                ratcs had not been
existing irrigation schcmes                            rcvised since 1983.
which are to be rehabilitated                          GOUP's decision in
and modernized ovcr an                                 Oct.94 to increase
cxtcndcd period of timc.                               watcr rates is a positive
step.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Project Components                           Appraisal Estimate1'               Actual Expenditure up to             Costs to Complete3/ from                   Final Cost
Credit Closure (Sept.30, 94)          Oct.1, 94 to March 31, 99
(Rs million)    (US$ million)    (Rs million)    (US' million)            (Rs million)    (USS million)    (Rs mitlion)    (USS million)
1. Main canal                             1,403.1             129.9            2,545.1             112.4              767.1              24.50         3,312.2             136.90
2. Modernization of distribution            363.7              33.7              762.6              30.5               34.6               1.10            797.2             31.60
systems
3. Augmentation tubewells                     12.9              1.2               26.6                1.3                2.7              0.09             29.3              1.39
4. Drainage improvements                     82.4               7.6                8.9                0.3                7.8              0.25             16.7              0.55
5. Hydel stations                            58.3               5.4                -                  -                  -                -
6. Cofhmrunications system                   19.7               1.8                2.1                0.1               0.2               0.01              2.3              0.11
7. Water and Land Management                 64.1               5.9              152.3                6.2              61.3               1.95            213.6              8.16
Institute
8. Residential buildings for                120.8              11.2              179.1               9.9                0.6               0.02            179.7              9.92
Irrigation Dept. staff
9. Technical services                        62.1               5.8               42.4                2.3               11.5             0.37              53.9              2.67
10. Engineering & administration            310.6              28.8            1,576.6              63.4              893.8             28.50          2,470.4             91.90
Total Project Cost                        2,497.7             231 3            5,295.7             226.4             1,779.6            56.80          7,075.3             283.20
I/ Physical and price contingencies identified with specific components.
2/ Dollar figures based on annual expenditures using the following exchange rates:  1985 = Rsl2.369;   1986 = Rsl2.611;  1987 = Rs12.962;  1988 = Rs13.917;
1989 = Rsl6.226;   1990 = Rs17.504;  1991 = Rs22.742;  1992 = Rs25.918;  1993 = Rs30.493;  1994 and after = Rs3l.371.
3/ Costs based on annual estimates made by the Irrigation Deportment.



26
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                                               Appraisal Estimate                          Actual/latest Estimate
(US$ million)                                (US$ million)
IDA                                                           125.0                                         126.8
Cofinancing Institutions
Other external sources
Domestic contribution                                         106.3                                        156.4
TOTAL                                                         231.3                                        283.2
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate                     ICR Estimatc
Increased foodgrain production                                       230.000 tons/year                    330,000 tons/year
Increased oilseeds production                                          2,700 tons/ycar                     5.240 tons/year
Increased sugarcane production                                       280,000 tons/year                    292,000 tons/year
Net Present Value in Rs million of
- Risk aversion component                                                   45.5                                 2.6
- Main canal modemization component                                        257 3                              2,218 1
- Modemization of Bulandshahr distributary component                        31.4                                77.3
- Modemization of Harduaganj distributar) componcnt                        113.9                                189.1
Economic Rate of Retum (%)
- Risk aversion works                                                        15                                   12
- Niodemization of main canal                                              19                                   18
- Nodemization of Bulandshahr distributary                                   18                                  17
- Nodermization of Harduaganj distributary                                  25                                   20
Underlipng Assumptions:
Project life (years)                                                        50                                   50
Standard conversion factor                                                  0 8                                  0.9
Unskillcd labour valued at:                                      67° of financial wace rate           90% of financial wagc rate
Financial svages (Rs/day) of unskilled labour                                9                                   32



27
Tabk 10. Status of Lcgal Covenants
India
Upper Ganga Irrigation Modemization Project
Agreement/    Covenant Type    Present   Original           Revised        Description of Covenant             Comments
Section                           Status'    Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date          Date
2.02(a)        Institutional      CD         12/31/84       //             Retain consultants to advise on     WAPCOS was
planning, design, operation,        appointed as APG in
maintenance, management,            Nov. 1985. Work
monitoring/evaluation and           completed.
l_____________  ______________   drainage.
2.02(b)        Institutional      C          //             1              Retain consultants to advise on     Socio-economic study
carrying out of agric. & socio-     has been completed.
economic management and water    Other studies have
l____________   charge system studies.              been completed.
2.03           Procurement        C          //             /              Follow prescribed procurement
procedures.
2.06           Project            C          //             /              Maintain a Project Coordination
Implementation                                             Unit headcd by a Level I Chief
arrangement                                                Engineer in ID.
2.07(a)        Institutional      C          //             //             Maintain a WALMI hcaded by a
suitable Director.
2.07(b)        Institutional      C          09/30/85       //             (i) Prepare a draft training        See remarks in 3.04(b)
program by 09/30/85; and (ii)       above.
Implement such training program
l ____________                                                              by  03/31/86.
2.08           Institutional      CD         12/31/86       09/30/91       Strengthcn agri. extension          See remarks in 3.04(b)
organizations in Bulandshahr and    above.
Aligarh districts.
2.09(a)        Institutional      CD         12/01/84       //             Prcpare a proposal for an applied
agricultural research program and
furnish to ICAR.
2.09th)        Institutional      CD         06/01/85       09/30/91       Adopt and implement applied         Implemcntation of
ragicultual rcscarch program.       program is progressing
2.09(c)        Institutional      CD         03/01/86       06/30/92       Review and update applied           Updating of program
agricultural program by March I    is being done by July I
of each ycar.                       of each year to co-
incide with Agriculture
year.
2.10           Studies            C          09/30/85       09/30/91       Carry out a detailed management
study and submit to IDA for
review and comment.
2.11           Studies            C          07/31/86       //             Carry out a baseline surney of      Report submitted in
farmers benefiting and fumish to    April 1987.
IDA for comments.
2.13           Institutional      C          01/01/85       //             Fumish Quarterly Progrcss           Semi-annual reports
Reports to IDA, such reports to     submitted regularly.
be fumished within 2 rmonths
after end of each reporting
pe riod.
2.16(a)        Engincering        CP         //             //             Install, operate & maintain         Implementation
dedicated & independent             continues to be slow;
electrical feeder lines to energize    2 energized
each augmentation tubewell.



28
Agreement/   Covenant Type    Present   Original          Revised       Descnption of Covenant             Comments
Section                          Status1    Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date          Date
2.18(b)        Facilities        NC        09/30/86       //            Furnish to the Association, a      A revised schedule will
maintenance                                              schedule for electrification of    be submitted.
each augmentation tubewell by
UPSEB.
2.18(c)        Facilities        CP        //             //            Provide continuous electrical
maintenance                                              power to each augmentation
tubewell with voltage not greater
than 6%.
3.01          Accounts           C         //             /1            Maintain separate records &
accounts, and furnish certified
copies of accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year, as
soon as available. but not later
than 9 months after end of such
year.
3.02          Acounts/Audits   C           //             //            Get accounts audited annually
immediatcly following finalization
by indcpendent auditors and
furnish audit report to
Association.
3.04           Financial         C         //             //            Inform Association of annual       Maintained out of
budgetary allocations for 0 & M    capital funds.
expenditures. on June 1 of each
year.
3.05(a)        Cost recovery     CD         12/31/85      //            Prepare proposal for establishing    As of Oct.17, 1994,
of a water charge system and       GOUP has decided to
furnish to Association.            raise water rates.
3.05(b)        Cost recovery     NC        09/30/86       06/30/92      Timetable based on above
proposal for applying such a
water charge system.
3.06           Cost recovery     CP        //             //            Maintain water charges to cover    See 3.05(a)
average cost of 0 & M. and a
reasonabic portion of investment
cost, taking into account repay-
ment capacity of farmers.
3.07           Cost recovery     C         //             //            Cause UPSEB to charge ID on        Rsl2O/= per BIIP per
basis which will reflect power     month
consumption.
1/ C = Covenant complied with; CD = complied with after delay- cP = complied with partially, NC = not complied with.



29
Table 11: Compliance *sith Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                 Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OMS 2.25  Cost recovery policy                  The OMS emphasizes the importance of recovering the
full cost of operation and maintenance of irrigation
schemes with a reasonable proportion of investment
cost, subject to repayment capacity of the beneficiaries.
The Principal Secretary indicated that as of October 17,
1994, GOUP has decided to raise water rates.
2. OMS 2.33   Involuntary resettlement             When development projects require people to be
relocated, the Bank's general policy is to help the
borrower to ensure that after a reasonable transition
period, the displaced people regain at least their
previous standard of living and that, as far as possible,
they be economically and socially integrated into the
host communities. Project-displaced people at Nidhauli
village are aot willing to move to new sites developed
by the ID and the ID is now planning alternatives which
would not displace people. Project-affected people at
Chitti village at the parallel UGC canal have taken their
cases to the courts.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                   Actual
Stage of
project cycle        Weeks          US$          Weeks         US$         Weeks        US$
Through appraisal           N.A.          NA.           N.A.         N.A.        166.9       N.A.
Appraisal-Board             N.A.          NA.           NA.          N.A.         24.3       NA.
Board-effectiveness         N-A.          N-A.         N.A.          N-A.          6.9       N.A.
Supervision                 NA.           NA.          N-A.          N.A.        125.2       NA.
Completion                  N.A.          NA.          N.A.          NA.          15.0       NA.
TOTAL                                                                           338.3



30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                   Specialized      Implemen-        Develop-
Stage of              Month/          of        Days in       staff skills      tation           ment         Types of
project cycle            year         persons       field     representedlI        status       objectives     problems2 
Through appraisal:
Reconnaissance mission     Sept. 79        2            5           EC,IE
Reconnaissance folllow-up    Nov. 79       4            20          EC,IE(2)G E,
Pre-preparation            Jan. 80         3            9           EC,GE(2)
Preparation 1              April 80        2            9           EC,IE
Preparation 2              Oct. 80         4            28          AE,EC,GE(2)
Preparation 3              Jan/Feb. 81     1            25          EC
Preparation 4              April/May 81   6             20          DE,EC(2).GE,
IE(2)
Preparation 5              Aug. 81         1            8           GE
Preparation follow-up I    Aug. 81         1            15          EC
Preparation follow-up 2    Dec. 82         1            4           IE
Preparation follow-up 3    March 83        4            12          AG,EC(2).IE
Preappraisal I             May/June 83    6             14          AG,EE,GE,
IE(3)
Preappraisal 2             Sept/Oct. 83    8            21          AEAG.AR.
EE,GE,IE(2).
WM
Appraisal through Board    Jan/Fcb 84      7            20          AG.AR.EC.
approval                                                            EE.GE.IE.
W .\ WN
Board approval through                                  -                -                         -              -
effectivenesm
Supervision:
I                         Oct. 84         3            4           IE(2).WM               2               1             F,M
2                          May 85          2           5           IE(2)                  2               1             F.M
3                         Oct. 85          3           5           AE,IE(2)               3               1               -
4                          May 86          3           4           AG.IE(2)               2               1              M\
5                          Jan. 87         4           5           AG,DE.IE(2)            2               1              M
6                         Aug. 87          1           9            IE                    2                1
7                          Dcc. 87         3           12          IE(2)                  2               1
8                         June 88          I           5           IE                     2               1
9                          Dec. 88         4           3           AG.IE(2).WM            2               1
10                         July 89         1           4            IE                     2               2              M
11                         Jan. 90         4           5            AG.IE(2).WM            2               2              M
12                         Aug. 90         5           7            AG,DE.IE.PE,           2               2              M
13                                                                  WM                                                    M
14                         Feb. 91         4           6            AG,IE(2),PE            2               2              M
15                         Aug. 91         5           8            AG,lE(3).PE            2               2              M
16                         March 92        3           9            AG,IE(2)               3               3             r,M
17                         Aug. 92         4            10          IE(2),PE               2               2             r;M
18                         March 93        4            27          AG,IE(2).PE            2               2              M
19                         Aug. 93         4           7            AG,IE(2).WM            2               2              M
Fcb/Mar.94      2           10          IE,WM                  2               2              M
; Completion               Sept. 94        3            6           AG,ECIE                -               -              -
/ AE = Agricultural Extension Specialist; AG = Agriculturist; AR = Agricultural Rescarch Specialist: DE = Drainage Engineer; EC =
Economist; EE - Electrical Engineer. GE = Groundwater Enginecr; IE = Irrigation Engineer- PE = Procurement Engineer, WM -
Water Managemcnt Training Specialist.
2/ F - Financial; M - Managemcnt.



31
iMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT (UGIMP
(Cr. 1483-IN!
Appendix 1
Aide-Mdmoire
A. Introduction
1.        A joint mission comprising the final supervision team'l from the World
Bank Resident Mission, New Delhi and an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
team2/ for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) visited
Uttar Pradesh from September 25-30, 1994. After initial meetings with project staff, field
visits were made to selected sites of PUGC in the upper reaches near Hardwar and
Roorkee, the lowei reaches including distributaries in Bulandshahr and Aligarh districts,
and to the sites of remaining works of Madhya Ganga Canal (MGC) system. Discussions
were also held with concerned field officials and farmers. Subsequently, the joint mission
comprising Messrs. K. Selvavinayagam, J.P. Baudelaire and B.S. Bhavanishankar visited
on October 15 the Water and Land Management Institute building at Telibag near
Lucknow, which is nearing completion.
2.        A wrap-up meeting was held on October 17, 1994, to discuss the Aide-
M6moire summarizing the findings and conclusions of the ICR mission. The meeting
was chaired by Mr. V.P. Mital, the Principal Secretary, Irrigation, and attended by the
Project Coordinator and other concerned project staff. Mr. John Cunningham, who
appraised the project and now works at the World Bank's New Delhi office, also
participated in this meeting. The representatives of GOUP including the concerned
project staff endorsed all the points raised in the Aide-Memoire except the one dealing
with the inadequacy of matching financial resources from GOUP. This point was further
discussed on the foilowing day (i.e. October 18, 1994) by Mr. Selvavinayagam when the
Project Coordinator and the project staff agreed that project implementation was initially
hampered by inadequacy of local counterpart funds until 1989/90, and it had improved
thereafter.
3.        The mission wishes to thank all concerned staff for the assistance and
hospitality extended to the mission during its stay in Uttar Pradesh.
Messrs. J.P. Baudelaire (Principal Irrigation Engineer, Mission Leader) and B.S. Bhavanishankar
(Irrigation Engineer).
V  Mcssrs. K.Selvavinayagam (Financial Analyst, Mission Leader), A.S. Malhotra (Irrigation Engineer) and
B.C. Biswas (Agro.romist).



32
B. Statement of Project Objectives
4.        The Upper Ganga Canal (UGC) system, covering about 925,000 ha, was
constructed about 150 years ago. GOUP has prepared a 30-year plan to rehabilitate and
modernize the entire irrigation system. The Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization
Project (UGIMP) was designed to finance a six-year time slice of the proposed
rehabilitation and modernization plan.
5.        Project objectives. The main objectives of UGIMP were: (i) risk aversion
from failure of the UGC system; (ii) rehabilitation and modernization of the system and
using the savings -esulting from lining canals and improvements in the operational
characteristics of the canal system to increase the command area; (iii) supplement
surface water supply through conjunctive use of groundwater with surface water supplies;
(iv) improvement of the state's capability to plan, design and manage irrigation schemes;
and (v) maximization of crop production and farmers' income in the modernized project
areas. An additional objective of the first time slice was to maximize benefits from the
sunk investment in the Madhya Ganga Canal (MGC) system, which physically inter-
relates with the UGC system.
6.        Project components included: (i) construction of risk aversion works in the
upper reach of UGC from km 6 to 36 including the replacement of four river crossings
of which the Ratmau and Solani are aqueducts, and the construction of a parallel lined
main canal; (ii) construction of a parallel lined canal and hydraulic structures in the
middle reach of UGC from km 177.5 to 240 to replace the existing dilapidated main
canal serving about 925,000 ha; (iii) modernization of three canal distribution systems
at Bulandshahr, Harduaganj and Machua serving about 43,000 ha; (iv) construction of
33 augmentation tubewells; (v) installation of a modern telecommunications system for
monitoring canal operation; (vi) preparation of a drainage study of the UGC command
and pilot operation; (vii) replacement of two small hydro-electric stations on the main
canal; (viii) establishment of a Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI); (ix)
construction of supporting infrastructure; (x) training of staff; and (xi) provision of
construction equipment and vehicles.
7.        Project cost. The total project cost including physical and price contingencies
was estimated at US$231.3 million (Rs2,497.7 million), including an IDA credit of
US$125 million which was to finance about 54% of total project cost. The remaining
project costs were to be met by GOUP/GOI.
8.        Changes after appraisal.  The project was restructured and its scope
expanded in June 1991 - only three months before the expected Credit closure - to use
up savings due to the depreciation of the rupee against the US dollar. The additional
works included an extension of the parallel UGC and some remaining works in the MGC
system. The UGC and MGC systems are adjacent and interrelated with the latter
providing additional water to the former during the rainy season. The additional works
of the UGC systemi included: (i) extension of the parallel UGC canal by 12.5 krm
(km 177 to 189.5) and advancing the completion of major cross drainage works; (ii)
modernization of the Machua distribution system to support a command of 19,823 ha
instead of 4,000 ha; (iii) provision of additional residential buildings for project staff;
and (iv) upgrading and expansion of the telecommunications network. For the MGC



33
system, the remaining works consisted of: (i) construction of balance works on the main
and branch feeder canals;  (ii) completion of branch feeder distribution systems,
including water courses; and (iii) construction of the parallel branch canals. The Pathri
and Palra hydro-electric stations were deleted in consultation with the Electricity Board.
GOUP felt these stations could still continue to be operated and it would be
uneconomical to replace them (as proposed under the project). However, the Palra
power station is ncw completely out of commission and defunct.
9.        In addition, the disbursement percentage for certain items (vehicles,
equipment, materials procured locally, other than ex-factory) was increased from 75%
to 90% to take effect retroactively from September 1, 1990, as part of the Gulf initiative
to alleviate GOI's foreign exchange constraints. A sum of SDR 18.4 million was
cancelled during implementation.
C. Evaluation of Project Objective
10.       The project objectives were clear and important for the irrigation sub-sector
of Uttar Pradesh as it was the first time that the comprehensive rehabilitation and
modernization of a major irrigation system was being attempted in the state. The project
emphasized the priority that GOUP must give to rehabilitation and modernization of
existing irrigation schemes if the state's existing irrigation potential was to be translated
into agricultural benefits much quicker than was possible through politically popular new
irrigation investments. Although the project was demanding on the implementing
Irrigation Department, it was worthwhile because of the innovative risk aversion
component which differentiated it from other irrigation rehabilitation investments in the
rest of the country. The original project cost of US$345 million was scaled down to
US$260 million at appraisal. It was realized then that the minimum investment of
US$260 million would exceed GOUP's budgeted allocation for the project over the 51/2-
year period by about US$30 million. The Bank extended the project period to six years
to meet this contingency when the appraisal was finalized. The addition of the MGC
component in 1991 obviously expanded the scope of the project and required the
extension of the Credit.
11.       The project also had sectoral implications since there were several other
major canal systems in UP which had to be modernized. The project support has helped
the Irrigation Department to develop its capabilities for planning, design, monitoring and
evaluation of completed works in technical and financial terms. The project has also
focused GOUP's attention on operation and maintenance of existing works which were
severely underfunded. The project was, however, complex because it required not only
coordination between different key agencies (Electricity Board, Department of
Agriculture) but also because it involved the design and construction of two rather
sophisticated pre-stressed aqueducts and the effective beneficiary participation in water
management.
12.       The risk of project failure because of various factors including reduction of
water supplies to the UGC system, gradual deterioration or breakdown of some critical
parts of the system, and weak institutional capability were safeguarded by protective
investments. The risk of GOUP not proceeding with project works after completion of



34
the first time slice was regarded to be small. Thus, the project risks were not expected
to exceed those associated with irrigation projects of a similar size and type in India.
D. Achievement of Project Objectives
13.       The project experienced a delay of two years due to forest clearance and a
further 11/2 years in procedural matters relating to ICB and LCB, thereby limiting
effective implementation to about six years. The project has partially achieved most of
its objectives. The first main objective, which was to carry out risk aversion works in the
upper reach of UGC, is well underway. The construction of the parallel canal is about
79% complete, but the critical sections including the Solani and Ratmau aqueducts and
the remodelling of -he reach passing through Roorkee are not expected to be completed
before mid-1998. Thus, the project will continue to be at some risk during the next four
years. The risk of a major failure still continues as three major structures have not been
completed (Solani, Ratmau and Pathri). The effects of a major breakdown in the upper
reach of UGC would be disastrous in economic terms to the Government of UP and on
the direct beneficiaries (at least half a million farmers) who would suffer loss of farm
incomes.
14.       The second main project objective, which was to modernize the main canal
system has not progressed well. Only 84% has been completed due to poor performance
and litigation with three major contractors. The delays will mostly affect the MGC
system and to a much lesser extent, the UGC system.
15.       The third major objective was the modernization of the three distributary
system. These works have been substantially completed and have started yielding partial
benefits to farmers. Full benefits and equitable distribution will be achieved only when
proportional outlet distributors (whether piped or otherwise) are installed and efficient
farmers' associations are formed. The ID will have to develop a major effort to
implement these aspects.
16.       Other project objectives included the implementation of augmentation
tubewells which had, so far, no impact on conjunctive use of surface and groundwater.
This is due to theft of electric lines in some cases by neighbouring farmers and the
Electricity Board, in consultation with ID, stopped further electrification. To minimize
such degradation of public property, it may be preferable to locate these tubewells in the
tail-end of the systems and to turn them over to farmers' groups. The installation of a
telecommunications system did not start and the improvement of the state's capability
to plan, design and manage irrigation schemes was marginal. The establishment and
recovery of water charges to cover the full costs of 0 & M plus a reasonable portion of
capital cost was not achieved. This has been a long-standing and pervasive problem in
India. Attempts to resolve the problem at the level of individual project have met with
negligible success. Macro-economic and financial objectives are not applicable to this
project.
17.       The MCG works have not sufficiently progressed to estimate benefits from
the sunk investment, although momentum was gained during the last two years. A



35
further setback was GOUP's decision to suspend work on parallel Mat branch and
Hathras branch.
18.       Project impact.  The project impact would be evaluated, taking into
consideration three distinct but interrelated benefits: (a) risk aversion to protect the
existing irrgation svstem; (b) modernization of the main canal; (c) modernization of
the canal distributary blocks (Bulandshahr, Harduaganj and Machua). When completed,
the first two investments would generate long-term direct benefits to the overall UGC
schenie covering about 925,000 million ha; the rehabilitation and modernization of
existing works would improve the quantity and quality of irrigation services. Field
discussions indicate that the incremental irrigated area commanded by the distributaries
vould be in the order of 2,000 ha (or 4% of the CCA), but the major benefits would
derive from higher cropping intensities and crop yields with the availability of improved
water supply, particularly to tail-end farmers. Water saved from seepage losses would,
therefore, be used for better irrigation of existing areas as foreseen at appraisal.
19.       A  re-estimate of the economic rates of return for the main canal
modernization and canal distributary blocks would be carried out and compared with
appraisal estimates. The computation and the results as well as variations between the
appraisal and ICR estimates would be presented in the ICR. Similarly, variations in
farm incomes 'with' the project and 'without' the project would also be analysed in the
ICR.
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project
20.       Factors not generally subject to Government control. These include civil
disturbances and contractual implementation issues, the latter substantially delaying
excavation and lining of PUGC (km 177 to 240).
21.       Factors generally subject to Government control. These include inadequate
funding in the initial years, farmers tampering with government property, continued
indecision on the part of the GOUP to take prompt action in resolving issues (Pathirao
structure), late issuance (involving almost two years) of forest clearance for felling of
trees on the canal right of way, late approval of APG consultants by one year, slow land
acquisition, and lack of adequate policy for resettling canal displaced persons. These
have substantially delayed the implementation of the project.
22.       Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. These include
time taken in processing changes in designs and amendment of contracts for the Solani
aqueduct and construction of PUGC in the reach km 189.5 to 240, and in fixing
alternative contract for the construction of the Pathirao superpassage after rescinding the
original contract, delays in the finalization of the planning and design for modernization
of the 3.6 km Roorkee reach of UGC, delays in implementing drainage works, lack of
progress in the construction of the augmentation tubewells and in the provision of
telecommunications facilities, delays in resolution of land acquisition cases in the
Bulandshahr reach of PUGC and in MGC, slow implementation of adaptive research and
agricultural extension programmes, lack of coordination among 0 & M staff and
construction staff in the modernization of distributaries, the slow pace of procurement



36
in the MCG system, and frequent turnover of key project staff. The combined effect of
these factors has p-evented GOUP from achieving progress at a higher pace.
23.       Cost changes. At credit closure on September 30, 1994, the total cost of the
project amounted to about US$240 million or Rs5,500 million (comprising actual
expenditure up to July 1994 of Rs5,065.6 million plus estimated cost up to September
1994 of Rs434.5 million). This represents a cost overrun of 120% in nominal terms.
Expressed in US dollars, the cost overrun is much lower at 4% due to depreciation of
the rupee against the dollar during the implementation period. There have been several
design and related quantity changes (e.g. Solani and Ratmau aqueducts) as well as price
escalations much higher than those provided at appraisal, which have contributed to cost
changes. Price rise due to the Gulf crisis was, however, not foreseen at appraisal. It
should also be noted that costs to complete the project as planned are estimated at
Rs2,068 million over the period 1994/95-1998/99.
24.       Implementation delays. The project was approved in September 1984 for a
six-year first time slice and was to close in September 1990. After three one-year
extensions, it was closed on September 30, 1994. The initial setback in implementation
of two years was due to delays in clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forest
for the felling of trees in the PUGC right of way, and inadequate matching of financial
(rupee) resources from GOUP in the initial years. The extension closing date was
justified based on this and the subsequent addition of remaining works on MGC (1990).
F. Project Sustainability
25.       Project sustainability hinges on: (i) ensuring adequate provision of 0 & M
funding; (ii) having trained staff in place together with adequate equipment to maintain
the system; and (iii) obtaining active local support for the project through farmers'
organizations or otherwise, to realize water management objectives. The key to securing
adequate 0 & M funding would be the revision of water rates and improved water
management. No :evision of water charges has taken place since 19831/ and GOUP
has not complied with any of the cost recovery covenants except for the study carried out
by the APG. A related issue is the active organization of farmers' organizations able and
willing to take ovei water management. Farmers need to be motivated and prepared for
this task through NGOs or other voluntary organizations and then given proper training
and technical assistance probably through WALMI on water management among them-
selves. These are major challenges facing GOUP in order to sustain irrigation
development through the ongoing rehabilitation and modernization activities.
G. Some Issues in the Implementation of Physical Works
26.       The restructured project aimed at securing kharif water supply in MGC and
improving kharif and rabi water tutilization in the three modernized distributary
1/ Thc Principal Sccrctary indicated that as on October 17, 1994, thc Government has taken a decision
to increase the water rates.



37
commands of UGC. However, the addition of MGC at a late stage did not allow this
component to be completed. The major issues which affected civil works were slow land
acquisition and inadequate land compensation, lack of policy for resettling canal-affected
persons, poor performance of contractors and the ID's inability to resolve quickly claims
put forward by contractors thus leading to lengthy court actions. The two latter points
have serio isly delayed the implementation of several major works. In the case of the
Solani and Ratmau aqueducts, though the ID had changed the design specifications, it
took about a year to readjust contract prices accordingly. In the case of the Pathirao
superpassage, the contract had to be rescinded and retendered. Three out of four major
ICB contractors, who were to construct PUGC from km 177 to 240, stopped construction
works for more than three years due to court litigations with the ID. They have now
resumed the excavation but it is likely that they will not be able to complete the lining
work. The major causes of these claims and litigations appear to be due to: (i) the
inadequate survey and designs of the works to be carried out leading to revisions in
specifications and quantities; (ii) the lack of appreciation of the difficulties of some
works leading to inadequate cost estimates. As a result, most contractors have under-
estimated the nature and cost of the works and have preferred to stop working rather
than lose money; (iii) the absence of a mechanism to closely monitor the use of advance
payments by contractors, and (iv) the inadequacy of the pre-qualification procedures in
view of the poor performance of many large ICB contractors. It is interesting to note
that medium-size LCB contractors appear to have performed better than the larger ICB
contractors.
27.       Though the SAR had stipulated the full lining of the PUGC in reach
km 190.5 to 240, the Bank agreed in July 1993 to change the design specification from
fully lined to partially lined (sides only) canal because of the high water table prevailing
in this reach. This decision was based on the major problem of dewatering in cut section
adjacent to existing unlined main canal which were encountered in reach km 177.5 to
190, and also on .he fact that the lining in high water table sections required the
provision of weep holes and drainage arrangements which considerably reduced the
water tightness of the canals. The advice of the World Bank for lining this reach of
PUGC with side lining has still not been implemented due to delays and some further
complications are expected from the contractors who do not appear to be equipped for
carrying out excavation and lining in high water table sections.
28.       The concept of augmentation tubewells has failed to a large extent; first,
because they were not immediately put into operation, and, second, because some were
installed along distributaries which run in two weeks out of five rotations during rabi.
It is now recommended to utilize these ATWS for direct use by farmers' groups.
29.       The engineering works on the three modernized distributaries are well
executed but more attention should be given when raising the FSL of canals so that the
maximum areas previously being irrigated by pumping come under command. There are
still certain areas on the modernized distributaries which are being irrigated by lifting
water as before.  Fhe head regulators of the modernized distributaries need to be
replaced and equipped with flow measuring devices. Similarly, the heads of minors need
to be equipped with standing water flumes and the modernization works carried out from
head to tail in order to ensure early benefits.



38
30.       The modernized distributaries have been lined in the full length with
polyethylene film covered with brick/tile lining. In locations where these channels run
in cutting and the groundwater table is higher than the design bed, the polyethylene
sheets are not required. There have been some cases of caving of lining in such
situations. Even otherwise, polyethylene lining is not suited for cutting reaches of a
channel as rainwate.-r would flow behind lining and exert hydro-static pressure.
H. Future Operation
31.       The Irrigation Department has planned to complete its first time slice
operation by 1998/99.  It is essential for GOUP to provide adequate funds for
completion as well as operation and maintenance of completed works. Another priority
is to arrange a review of augmentation tubewells to see whether they are still relevant
for the project. The Irrigation Department is advised to monitor project impact using
such measures as irrigation system performance indicators supplemented by cropping
patterns, cropped areas, cropping intensities and crop yield according to crops and by
seasons.
1. Lessons Learned
32.       The mpin lessons learned from the project are as follows.
(a)    As in many other projects in India, part of the reason for partial
completion of the project in UP is due to the allocation of
counterpart funds among too many projects. It is essential that the
scale of the project be tailored to the availability of financial
resources of the government and to match institutional capabilities.
Where design is so done and yet financial constraints intervene
midway during implementation, the Bank should be prudent in not
expanding the project merely to absorb some cost savings.
(b)    When project scope is expanded (as in the case with the addition of
MGC system), late during implementation period, extension must be
for a full three or four years and not year by year to safeguard
against overcommitment by the Government. This experience of
growing physically too large also suggests that the Bank's financial
assistance simply exacerbated an overcommitment of resources to too
many projects.
(c)    It is essential to appoint a panel of experts to review and supervise
designs for major structures such as Solani aqueduct in order to
ensure quality and save costs.
(d)    In-depth monitoring is an essential tool for improving project
performance and for throwing up reliable data for estimation of
project benefits. Follow-up surveys should therefore be encouraged.



39
(e)    Farmers' participation is the key to the success of lining of water
courses and the lining programme should be finalized in consultation
with the beneficiaries. Even when taking a 'sectoral' approach to
something as specific as improving irrilgation, linkage of other
institutions having complementary functions is very important.
(f)    While modernizing distributaries, full supply level of channels should
be raised, wherever possible, so as to increase the command and
convert some uncommanded areas to CCA.
(g)    Where major structures are to be constructed under the project, the
cost estimates at appraisal should be supported by designs of the
works so as to convert existing lift areas into gravity areas.
(h)    Most of the studies have not been put to operational use. These
were referred to the Bank and the Irrigation Department expected
the Bank to provide guidance.  It is essential that only studies
essentially useful and relevant to the project are carried out. Their
findings should be thoroughly discussed first by the interested units
within the Irrigation Department and thereafter referred to the Bank
for its comments.
(i)    Turnover rate of key senior-level staff must be minimized if the
benefits of project training and efficiency in implementation are to
be realized.
J. Follow-up
33.       The mission will return to Rome and prepare the relevant parts of the ICR
for transmittal to the World Bank by mid-January 1995. The Irrigation Department is
requested to prepare its own evaluation as per Bank guidelines and send it to the World
Bank office in New Delhi by about the same date.
Lucknow, October 16, 1994.



40
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT (UGIMP)
(Cr.1483-IN)
Appendix 2
Economic Re-evaluation
General
1.       At appraisal, the three main components of UGIMP were: (i) risk aversion
works; (ii) rehabilitation and modernization of the main canal systems; and (iii)
modernization of distributaries (Bulandshahr and Harduaganj) serving an area of about
31,000 ha. The benefits of risk aversion works were computed for an area of 400,000 ha
while the main canal modernization was expected to improve the quality of irrigation
water supply initially in an area of 270,000 ha. The modernization works of the main
canal and distributary blocks were expected to influence cropping pattern, crop yields
and ultimately farm incomes.
Risk Aversion WVorks
2.        On the basis of assumptions made at appraisal, the decrease in net value of
production, if irrigation is discontinued through a whole annual cropping cycle, is
estimated at about Rsl,434 million in economic prices in the northern 400,000 ha of crop
areas against Rs860 million estimated at appraisal.
Mlain Canal Mlodernization
3.        Overall crop development. No data on annual crop production in the project
area has been systematically recorded and little effort has been made to record the
impact of the project on crop production. Therefore, data used for compiling the crop
development which has taken place over the last ten years in the project area are mainly
based on district averages prepared by the Department of Agriculture, field investigations
and mission estimates.
4.        The impact of the main canal modernization has been re-evaluated using
crop data from canal distributaries and presented below.
5.        Cropping pattern. Cropping patterns with present, without project (WOP),
and with project (WP) have been developed on the basis of the data of the two
distributaries (Bulandshahr and Harduaganj) and presented in Table 1 and summarized
below.



41
Cropping intensity
WOP                     WP
I _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _             (%)           _(%)
Rabi                                      59                      65
Kharif                                    49                      72
Zaid                                       1                      10
Perennial (sugarcane)                      5                      6
Total                                    114                     153
Cia pping intensity (%)                  114                     153
As shown above, lotal cropping intensity has increased from 114% in WOP to 153% in
WP.
6.        In rabi, cropping intensity has increased from 59% in WOP to 65% in WP,
while in kharif it has increased from 49% to 72%. In rabi, the major increase is in wheat
(10%) while in kharif, the major increase is in rice (4%) (Table 1). A high value crop
like oilseed (rapeseed and mustard) has also increased. The increase is substantial (9%)
in the zaid crop while in sugarcane the increase is only 1%.
7.        Crop yield. Crop yields have been assumed to be the same as those of
appraisal (in the absence of data to be generated by the M & E Unit of ID), except in
the case of wheat where district average for 1993-94 had reached a level of 3.92 t/ha
(Status Report 1993-94, page 44, Annex 2 of the National Agricultural Research Project
phase II, GBPUAT, Bulandshahr). Similarly, the Progress Report of the National
Agricultural Research Project (1993-94) reports a wheat yield of 4.2 t/ha in the farmers'
fields of the project area. In addition, the I & P Division, (UP) reports an average wheat
yield of 4.43 t/ha from a study made in Trilokpur minor. However, crop yield with
project has been assumed conservatively at 3.8 tons/ha for wheat.
8.        As anticipated at appraisal, the yields of all crops have increased (Table 2).
Fertilizer use has also increased as expected but the use of P and K, has, of late,
decreased due to a price increase, but its use is more in HYV. The rate of application,
however, is much below the recommended dose. This implies that there exists further
potential to increase crop productivity through higher, balanced and efficient use of
fertilizer. Progressive farmers of the areas backed by the extension services and the
Adaptive Research Institute are already getting very high yields of different crops
comparable to those obtained in the Punjab. The crop yields of the farmers also would
increase further when the agro-techniques developed by the adaptive research station
would be adopted by the farmers.
9.        Farm incomes. One hectare farm models were prepared for Present, WOP
and WP situations. Average crop budgets at financial prices are given in Table 3 and
farm incomes are summarised below.



42
l                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~WOP    IWP
(Rs/ha)
Gross return                                 9,605                  17,601
Hired labour                                 1,696                   2,285
Other inputs                                  2,344                   3,157
Total inputs                                 4,040                   5,442
Net value                                    5,565                  12,159
Incremental (Rs/ha)                                      6,594
Incremental due to project (%)                           118%
10.        The estimated  incremental farm  incomes are  higher than  those of
Bulandshahr (Rs4,354) and Harduaganj (Rs4,128). It is largely because of the higher
increase of crop area (wheat, rice, zaid crops) in the project area.
Distributary Modernization
11.        The project area of the two distributaries is given below.
Area (ha)
-Distributary command:                  WOP                         WP
Bulandshahr                           12,700                      12,700
Harduaganj                            17,800                      19,000
Total                                 30,500                      31,700
12.        Cropping pattern. As expected at appraisal, rabi cropping intensities with
the project are slightly higher and there is a change in the crop mix. High value crops
like oilseed (rapeseed and mustard, sunflower etc.) are becoming increasingly popular
among the farmers (see Tables 4 & 5).
13.        In kharif, rice is gaining popularity (about 5% increase in Bulandshahr and
Harduaganj). Another noticeable increase is in the land devoted to fodder and mung.
While the sugarcane area has stabilized in Bulandshahr, it has increased from 1% in
WOP to 3% in WP in Harduaganj. The overall cropping intensity has increased from
130% to 145% in Bulandshahr and 130% to 141% in Harduaganj, as indicated in Tables
4-5 and summarized below.



43
Cropping intensity
Bulandshahr                     Harduaganj
WOP M)           xvP (%)        WOP (%)          WP (%)
Rabi                        58               59              61              61
Kharif                      56               62              65              69
Zaid                         2               10               3               8
Perennial (sugarcane)        14              14               1               3
Total           _           130             145              130            141
14.        The area under different crops is unlikely to increase in Bulandshahr because
there is a high Lr demand for the land for urban development. Therefore, the main
thrust is on productivity increase.
15.        Crop productivity and production. As expected at appraisal, farmers have
tended to change to HYV from coarse grains and from barley to wheat. Crop yield has
increased in general and that of wheat 'with project' in particular (Tables 6-7). Wheat
is the most dependable crop and economically attractive too. As indicated earlier,
documentary evidence indicated that wheat yields in the project area are quite high (3.5-
3.8 t/ha). The higher wheat yield is attributed to good management practices that
farmers adopt in the area.
16.        Farm incomes. At appraisal, two representative (1 ha) farm models had been
used to estimate the project impact on farm incomes at the then prevailing financial
prices to value outputs and inputs. The results were as follows.
Net farm incomes at appraisal
Farm Incomes
Distributary command                    (Rs/lia)                     Increase due to
l  P   |    XVOP            Wproject (%7o)
Bulandshahr
- Head reach               3,200          3,700         5,700              54
- Tail reach               2,400          2,700         5,700             111
Harduaganj & Machua
- Rlead reach              2,300          2,600         4,400              69
- Tail reach               1,700          1,900         4,400             132



44
17.        Similar estimates have been  made to derive farm  incomes at full
development. The results are detailed in Tables 9 and 10 and summarized below.
Net farm incomes at completion
Farm Incomes
Distributary command                  (Rs/lia)                   Increase due to
p  WOP        WP           project (%)
Bulandshahr                                      _
- Head reach              5,627        6,999        11,853            69
- Tail reach              4,220        5,110        11,853           132
Harduaganj
- Head reach              6,511        5,785         9,913            71
- Tail reach              4,820        4,225         9,913            135
18.       The increase in net farm incomes over appraisal estimates is largely explained
by the higher wheat yields.
19.        Economic analysis. Following appraisal methodology, the project impact has
been evaluated in terms of three distinct, but interrelated benefits: (a) risk aversion to
protect the existing irrigation system;  (b) modernizing the main canal;  and (c)
modernizing canal distributary blocks (Bulandshahr and Harduaganj). At the time of
appraisal, economic rates of return (ERRs) were estimated at 15% for the risk aversion
component, 19% for main canal modernization, 18% for Bulandshahr distributary and
25% for Harduaganj distributary.
20.        In re-estimating the project's impact, the basic assumptions made at appraisal
have been retained. The analysis has been carried out in 1994 constant price terms.
Historical investment costs for individual components have been inflated to 1994 prices
by applying the wholesale price indices. These costs have been restated in border terms
by using the standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 (see Tables 11-14). In estimating
costs, duty and local taxes have been excluded. Financial prices and economic values of
crops and inputs are presented in Tables 15 & 16. Future prices are based on World
Bank Primary Commodity Forecasts dated August 1994. In line with estimates in recent
World Bank Staff Appraisal Reports, farm labour has been valued at 90% of the
financial wage rate.
21.        Beneflts. Only agricultural production benefits have been considered in the
economic analysis. The economic benefits to risk aversion works are estimated at
Rsl,434 million per annum in economic prices, being the decrease in net value of
production on 400,000 ha if irrigation is discontinued, until replacement works are
completed. The benefits attributable to main canal modernization would result from
saving of seepage losses (from the present 72% to 90% with project) and improvement



45
to operational efficiency. As at appraisal, the area assumed to benefit is taken at about
270,000 ha. The benefits attributable to canal distributary blocks (Bulandshahr - 12,700
ha and Harduaganj - 18,800 ha) are expected to arise from water savings from lining and
improved regulation, and from ATWs.
22.       Costs. For evaluating impact, about 84% of investment costs of the main
canal works have been apportioned to risk aversion and 16% charged to main canal
modernization as done at appraisal. The economic costs of all civil works, the canal
communication system, engineering and administration, and operation and maintenance
have been included as part of the costs of main canai modernization. Similarly, the
economic costs of all civil works, equipment, engineering and administration, and
operation and maintenance have been included as costs of canal distributary blocks. The
o & M costs are calculated, based on the unit rate of Rsl4O/ha of irrigated land. The
land lost to production (opportunity cost of land) as a result of construction is valued at
Rs3,436/ha being the ret economic return per unit area under the 'future without'
proj-ct situation (see Tables 11-14).
23.       Based on the above assumptions, the cropping patterns and per ha crop yield
assumptions shown in Tables 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 & 7 and a 30-year (for risk aversion) and 50-
year period of analysis (for other components), the current estimate of ERR for the risk
aversion component is 12%, for main canal modernization 18%, for Bulandshahr 17%
and for Huarduaganj 20% (see Tables 17-20). The major factors, which contributed to
lower ERRs as compared to appraisal estimates, include cost overruns and delayed
accrual of benefits, which are not fully offset by improved crop yields.
24.       Sensitivity analysis. Following appraisal methodology, sensitivity analysis has
been carried out separately for three of the four project components - main canal
modernization, canal distributary of Bulandshahr and Harduaganj. The results indicate
a reduction in benefits by 20% will lower the ERR of canal modernization to 16.7%, the
ERR of Bulandshahr distributary to 14.8% and the ERR of Harduaganj distributary to
17.7%, while an increase in cost by 20% will lower the ERR of canal modernization to
16.9%, the ERR of Bulandshahr distributary to 15% and the ERR of Harduaganj
distributary to 18%. The project components are therefore not sensitive to variations in
either benefits or costs.



46
Implemcntation Completion Rcport
INDIA: Upper Ganga Irrigation Modcrnization Project (UGIMP)(Cr.1483-lN)
Appendix 2: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 1. Cropping Pattern - Main Canal Modernization
Present (%)            Without Project (%)          With Project (%)
Crops                  Irrigated      Rainfed      Irrigated     Rainfed       Irrigated     Rainfed
Rabi
- Wheat                    22            12           18            12            28            4
- Barlcy                   4             2             6             5             -            6
-Pulses                    8             5             7             6             8            6
- Bcrscem                  2             -             1             -             5             -
- Vcgetables               2                           1                           3             -
(mainly_potato)
- Mustard                  2             -             1             -             2            3
- Other                    2             2             1             1             -             -
Kharif
- Rice                     2-                         13             -            17
- Maize                    5             -             5             -             8             -
- Other ccrcal             5             11            4             9             7            15
- Pulscs                   9             1             9             2             8            3
- Foddcr                   12            1             1             3            13             -
- Othcr                    2             4             2             1             1             -
Zaid
- Mung                     1             -             -             -             5             -
- Fodder                   2                           1                           5             -
Pcrennial
- Sugarcanec        |      4             -             5-                          6
Total                      84           38            75            39           116            37
Cropping intensitv              (122)                       (114)                      (153)
/ Likc the SAR csttmate, sugarcane counted in each of the thrcc crop scasons.



47
Implemcntation Completion Report
INDLA: Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGIM.P)(Cr.1483-IN)
Appendix 2: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 2. Crop Yield - Main Canal Modernizationt/
Without Project (t/ha)         With Project (t/ha)
Crops                                     Irrigated      Rainfed        Irrigated      Rainfed
Rabi                                                                                              l
- Wheat                                     2.6            2.0            3.8            2.0
- Barley                                    2.1            2.0             -              2.0
- Pulses                                    0.6            0.5            0.8            0.6
- Berseem                                   27.0            -             38.0                    l
- Vegetables (mainly potato)                20.0             .            30.0                    l
- Mustard                                   0.8             -              1.3            0.7
- Other (fodder)                            20.0           6.0
Kharif
- Rice                                      2.5             -             4.0
- Maize                                      1.6             -            2.8
- Other cereal                               1.6            1.2            2.5            1.2
- Pulses                                    0.8            0.8            0.9            0.8
- Fodder                                    28.0           26.0           38.0
- Other                                      1.6            1.4            1.9
Zaid
- Mung                                       1.3             -             1.6
- Fodder                                    27.0                          30.0
Perennial
- Sugarcane2'                                43                     1      52
/ Yields are the same as in the SAR cxcept in wheat and barley where higher yicids have been considered
because the average yieids of wheat and bariey of Bulandshahr and Machua districts have reached above
the level mentioned here.
2/ Like the SAR estimate, sugarcane counted in each of the three crop seasons.



48
Implcmentation Completion Report
INDIA: Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGIMP)(Cr.1483-IN)
Appcndix 2: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 3.  Average Crop Budgets at Financial Price - Nain Canal Modernization
Present  I Without Project I With Project I Incremental
Average for kharif                          ..............             ...............
Gross return per ha of net area       2,637            2,810             6,381            3,571
Input cost pcr ha of net area         1,903            1.309             1,783              474
Net return per ha of net area           734            1,501             4,598            3,097
Cropping intcnsity (%)                  52              50                 72              22
Average for rabi
Gross return per ha of nct area       3,907            5,430             8,637            3,207
Input cost per ha of nct area         1.777            2,008             2,524              516
Nct rcturn per ha of net area         2,130            3,422             6,113            2,691
Cropping intensity (%)                  63               60                65               5
Average ror hot season
Gross rcturn per ha of nct area         169               54               680              626
Input cost per ha Of net area            32               12               132              140
Net return per ha of nct arca           137               42               528              486
Cropping intensity (%)                  3                1                 10               9
Average ror two season-crop
Gross return per ha of net area          98            1,311              1,903             592
Input cost per ha of net area           273              717               983              266
Net return per ha of nct arca           -175             594               920              326
Cropping intensity (%)                  12               15                18               3
Average for all crops
Gross return per ha of net area       6,811            9,605             17,601           7,996
Input cost per ha of nct area         3,985            4,040              5,442           1,402
Net rcturn per ha of net area         2,826            5,565             12,159           6,594
Cropping intensity (%)                 140              146               165               19
Labour input/ha of net area         61.2 MD          71.2 MD           89.6 MD          17.8 MD
Fertilizer input/ha of net area      61.8 kg          85.3 kg           137.9 kg         52.8 kg



49
Implcmentaticn Completion Report
INDIA: Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGIMP)(Cr.1483-IN)
Appendix 2: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 4. Cropping Pattern - Bulandshahr
Present                             Full Development
Crops                                                Without Project (%)           With Project (%)
Irrigated     Rainfed       Irrigated      Rainfed      Irrigated      Rainfed
Rabi
- Wheat                    35                          26             -            34             -
-Barlev                    4                           10             5             -             7
-Pulses                    8                            8                           8
- Berseem                  3              -             2                    .      5
- Vegetables               3              -             3                           3
(mainly potato)                                         _
- Mustard                                               1                           2
- Other                    5              -             2                    -
Kharif                                                      ._
- Rice (unclean)           4              -            10                           15
-Maize                     7              -             7             -             2             -
- Other cereal             10                          10             5             11            4
(bajra)__                             _ _ _  _  __  _  _ _  _
-Pulses +                  12                          12             -             10            3
intercropping
-Fodder                    10                          10             -             14            -
-Other                     2                            2             1             2             1
Zaid
- Mung                      1                           -             -             5             -
- Fodder                   3                            2                           5             -
Pcrcnnial
- Sugarcane"/              14                          14             -             14            -
Total                     121                         119             11           130            15
Cropping intensity              (121)                        (130)                       (145)
/ Like the SAR estimate, sugarcane counted in each of the three crop seasons.



50
Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGINMP)(Cr.1483-[N)
Appendix 2: Economic Re-cvaluation
Table 5. Cropping Pattern - Harduaganj
Present                              Full Development
Crops                                                 Without Project (%)           With Project (%)
Irrigated     Rainfed       Irrigated      Rainfed       Irrigated      Rainfed
Rabi                                                                                     .
-Wheat                     14             20            12            20             22            10
-Barley                     3             4              5             6             -             6
-Pulses                     5             8              4             9             5             9
- Berseem                   I             -              I             -             5              -
-Vegetables                 2                            2                           2
(mainiv potato)
-Mustard                    -             -              1             I              I             1
-Other                     2              1             -             -              -             -
Kharif
-Rice                       3             -             11             -             16             -
-Maize                      5             -              5             -             4              -
- Other ccrcal              2             25                          27             3             17
-Pulses                     7             2              7             2             S             4
-Fodder                     3             5              3             6             15
-Other                      1             1              1             1              1             1
Zaid
-Mung                       1             -              I             -             4              -
-Fodder                     2             -              2                           4              -
Perennial
- Sugarcanel/               2             -              I             -             3              -
Total                      53             66            58            72             93            48
Cropping intensity               (119)                        (130)                       (141)
1/ Like the SAR estimate, sugarcane countcd in each of the three crop seasons.



51
Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGIMP)(Cr.14S3-IN)
Appcndix : Economic Re-evaluation
Table 6. Crop Yield - Bulandsliahr
Full Development
Crops                                      Without Project (t/ha)         With Project (t/ha)
Irrigated      Rainfed        Irrigated       Rainfed
Rabi                                   __
- Wheat                                      2.6             -             3.8       _
- Barley                                     2.1            2.0             -              2.0
- Pulses                                     0.6             -              1.0      _
- Mustard                                    0.8             -              1.5             -
- Bcrseem                                   27.0             -             38.0      _
- Vegetables (mainly pot ato)                20.0            -             30.0
- Other (fodder)                             20.0            -             28.0                    l
Kharif
- Rice                                       2.5             -              4.0      _  _       X
- Maize                                      1.6             -              2.8      _
- Other ccrcal                               1.6             1.2            2.5            1.2
- Pulses                                     1.0             -              1.0            1.0
- Fodder                                     28.0                          38.0
- Other                                      1.7                            2.1            1.7
Zaid                                                                         _
- Mung                                        -                             1.8       _
- Fodder                                     27.0                          30.0
Perennial
- Sugarcanel!                                44.0                   |      52.0
/ Like the SAR cstimate, sugarcane counted in each of the three crop seasons.



52
Implementation Completion Rcport
INDIA: Uppcr Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGIGMP)(Cr.1483-IN)
Appendix 2: Economic Rc-cvaluation
Table 7. Crop Yield - Harduaganj
Full Development
Crops                                      WWithout Project (t/ha)           With Project (t/ha)
Irrigated       Rainfed        Irrigated       Rainred
Rabi
- Wheat                                       2.6             1.6             3.5            1.6
- Barley                                      2.0             1.6              -              1.6
- Pulses                                      0.6             0.5             0.8            0.5
- Mustard                                     0.8             0.6             1.3            0.6
- Bcrseem                                     27.0             -             35.0
- Vegetables (mainly potato)                  20.0                           26.0
- Other (fodder)                        _                                               _
Kharif
- Rice                                        2.5                             4.0
- Maize                                        1.5                            2.4
- Other cereal                                 1.5            1.5             2.0            1.5
- Pulses                                      0.8             0.6             0.9            0.6
- Fodder                                      28.0            26.0           36.0             -
- Other                                        1.6            1.4             1.9             -
Zaid
- Mung                                                         -              1.5             -
- Fodder                                      27.0                           30.0             -
Pcrennial
- Sugarcane1'                                 43.0                           52.0
/ Like the SAR estimate, sugarcane countcd in each of the thrce crop scasons.



53
Implemeniation Compleition Report
INDIA: Uppcr Ganga Irrigation Modcrnization Projcct (UGIMIP)(Ci.1483-IN)
Appendix 2: Economic Rc-evaluation
'l able 8. Exchange Rates and Wholesale Price Indices (WPI)
Year                       Exchange Ratel/                       wPllI
Rs = US$1
1979                                                             60.0
1980                                                             72.0
1981                                                             80.9
1982                                                             82.8
1983                                                             89.4
1984                                                             95.6
1985                            12.369                           100.0
1986                            12.611                           105.6
1987                            12.96'                          112.9
1988                            13.917                           122.7
1989                            16.226                           131.1
1990                            17.504                           142.9
1991                            22.742                           162.2
1992                            25.918                           181.4
1993                            30.493                           194.7
1994                            31.371                           208.9
l/ IMF Statistics.



54
Implementation Completion Report
IN'DIA: Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGIMP)(Cr.1483-IN)
Appendix 2: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 9. Average Crop Budgets at Financial Prices - Bulandshahr
Present  I Without Project I With Project I Incremental
Average ror kharif                        .............. (R/h ...............
Gross return per ha of net area      1,355           3,184            4,793            1,609
Input cost per ha of net area         977            1,457             1,867            410
Net return per ha of net area         378            1,644             2,926           1,282
Cropping intensity (%)                45              51                54              3
Average for rabi
Gross return per ha of net area      4,597           6,003            8,847           2,844
Input cost per ha of net area        1,873           2,439            3,030             591
Net return per ha of net area        2,724           3,564             5,817          2,253
Cropping intensity (%)                58              58                58
Average for hot season
Gross return per ha of net area       214              108              984             876
Input cost per ha of net area         149              24               196             172
Net rcturn per ha of net area          65              84               788             704
Cropping intensity (%)                 4               2                10              8
Average for two season-crops
Gross return per ha of net arca      3,416           3,758            4,453             668
Input cost per ha of net              956            2,051             2,131             80
Net return per ha of nct arca        2,460           1,707             2,322            615
Cropping intensity (%)                14              14                14
Average for all crops
Gross return per ha of net area      9,582           12,970           19,077          6,107
Input cost per ha of net area        3,955           5,971             7,224           1,753
Net return per ha of net areal/      5,627           6,999            11,853           4,354
Labour input/ha of net area        61.2 MD         71.2 MD           89.0 MD         17.8 MD
Fertilizer input/ha of net area     61.8 kg         85.3 kg          137.9 kg         52.7 kg
/ Tail reach - present and WOP assumed at 75%  and 73%  of average income based on appraisal
proportions.



55
Impleme-,ation Completion Report
INDIA: Upper Ganga Imgation Modernization Project (UGIMP)(Cr.1483-IN)
Appendix 2: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 10. Average Crop Budgets at Financial Prices - Harduaganj
Present  I Without Project I With Project I Incremental
Average  for kharif                       ..............             ...............
Gross return per ha of net area      2,477            4,279             5,594           1,323
Input cost per ha of net area        1,462            1,384            2,081             697
Net return per ha of net area        1,015            2,887            3,513             626
Cropping intensity (%)                 54              65                68               3
Average for rabi
Gross return per ha cf net area      6,065            4,171            8,153            3,982
Input cost per ha of net are;        1,057            1,459            2,847            1,388
Net return per ha of net aredi       4,008            2,712            5,306            4,378
Cropping intensity (%)                 60              61                60              -1
Average for hot season
Gross return per ha of net area        168              52               726             674
Input cost per ha of net area           32              21               156             135
Net return per ha of net area          136              31               570             539
Cropping intensity (%)                 3                2                8                6
Average for sugarcane
Gross return per ha of net area        488             252               951             699
Input cost per ha of net area          136              105              i:27            322
Net return per ha of net area          352              147              524             477
Cropping intensity (%)                 2                1                3                2
Average for all crops                                                                             l
Gross return per ha of net area      9,198            8,754            15,424           6.670
Input cost per ha of net area        2,687            2,969             5,511           2,542
Net return per ha of net areal/      6,511            5,785             9,913           4,128
Cropping intensity (%)                123              131              146              25
Labour input/ha of net area         61.2 MD         171.2 MD          89.0 MD         17.8 MD    |
Fertilizer input/ha of net area     61.0 kg          85.3 kg          137.9 kg         52.7 kg
l/ Tail reach - present and WOP assumed at 73% of average income based on appraisal proportions
between head and tail reaches.



56
Implementation Completion Report
IND)IA: Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGl.%IP)(Cr.1483-1N)
Appendix 2: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 11. Economic Costs - Risk Aversion Works
Cost Category        Main CanaIl/    Opportunity Cost of Land-2/   Prevented Production Loss
Fiscal Year:          .............. .(Rs million) .............
1985                      64.4
1986                      92.0        _
1987                     141.3                    0.2
1988                     191.5                    0.3
1989                     329.7                    0.4
1990                     308.2                    0.4
1991                     361.2                    0.4
1992                     257.4                    0.4
1993                     290.5                    0.4
1994                     298.9                    0.4
1995                     262.6                    0.4
1996                     208.0                    0.4
1997                     131.9                    0.4
1998                      53.8                    0.4
1999                      34.3                    0.4
2000                                              0.4
2001-2009                                         0.4
2010                                              0.4                          1,434
2034                                              0.4                         1,434
As at appraisal, costs of main canal apportioned 84% to risk aversion and 16% to modernization to
reflect the multipurpose benefits of such works. Financial costs have been updated to 1994 prices using
wholesale price indices and converted to economic values using SCF of 0.9.
2/ The land lost to production as a result of construction is valued at Rs3,436/ha as the nct economic
return per unit area under the future 'without project' situation, cumulative area as follows:
1987 - 57.7 ha; 1988 - 85.6 ha; 1989 - 113.4 ha; 1990 - 124.4 ha; 1991 onwards - 124.4 ha.



lrptementation Completion Report
INDIA:  Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGIMP)(Cr.1484-IN)
Appendix 2: Economic Re-evalation
Tabte 12.   Econoic Costs - Con MoIemnization Works
Cost Category      Main Canat1/"      Civil Works/ 2      Comumnications System3/  Engineering & Acainistration3"   Technicat Services3/  I Operation & Maintenance4/
1985                     12.3                0.4                                                    18.2                          0.4                                         l
1986                     17.5               31.9                                                    35.8                          4.1                                         l
1987                     26.9               69.9                                                    55.9                         16.2                                         l
1988                     36.5               36.9                                                    74.6                          6.8
1989                     62.8               28.0                                                   116.2                          6.9
1990                     58.7               27.1                     0.3                           183.7                          5.6
1991                     68.8               29.1                     0.6                           183.6                          4.9
1992                     49.0               40.6                     0.8                           199.5                          4.1
1993                     55.3               65.0                     0.2                           323.9                         10.0
1994                     56.9               50.3                     0.3                           317.2                          0.5
1995                     50.0                 5.0                   45.0                           371.9                          0.5
1996                     39.6                 2.8                                                  270.0                          q.5
1997                     25.1                 .                                                     99.0                          0.5
1998                     10.2                                                                       60.7                          0.5
1999                      6.5                                                                       41.6                          0.5                        34.0
2034                                                                                                                                                         34.0
1/ As at appraisal, cost of main canal apportioned 16X to modernization and 84% to risk aversion;  costs updated to 1994 prices using WPI and converted toeconomic values
2/  using SCF of 0.9.
Includes WALMI plus residential buildings.
3/ Full costs included as assumed at appraisal.
M/ aintenance of canals up to completion of construction met out of capital funds, and thereafter at Rsl40/ha for irrigated conmand; 270,000 ha at Rsl4O/ha converted
by SCF of 0.9.



58
Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (LGIMP)(Cr.1483-IN)
Appendix 2: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 13. Economic Costs - Hlarduaganj Distributaryl/
Fiscal Year           Modernization of distributary command         Opportunity cost of land2/
............. .(Rs million) .
1985                                    0.2
1986                                    4.8
1987                                    9.7
1988                                   16.4
1989                                   22.8
1990                                   41.8                                   0.007
1 991                                  63.3                                   0.023
19)(2                                  40.0                                   0.025
19'3                                   40.4                                   0.032
1'}94                                  46.9                                   0.032
1995                                   11.5                                   0.032
1996                                                                          0.032
1997                                                                          0.032
1998                                                                          0.032
1999                                                                          0.032
2034                                                                          0.032
1/ As done at appraisal, it has been assumcd that there would be no incremental cost over present 0 & M
costs of the cxisting U(GC canal system.
/ Valued at Rs3,440/ha as the net economic rcturn per unit area under the future 'without project'
situalion: 1990 - 2 04 ha;  1991 - 6.58 ha;  1992 - 7.24 ha;  1993 - 9.36 ha; 1994 onwards - 9.4 ha.



59
Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGIMP)(Cr.1483-IN)
Appendix 2: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 14. Economic Costs - Bulandshahr Distributaryl/
Fiscal Year           Modernization of distributary          Drainage            Opportunit2r
. ___                     command                     improvements          cost of land /
............. ____(IR_s milliotr) ..........
1985                               0.8                                        __ _ _ __ _ _ _
1986                               4.8
1987                               2.7                                        ___
19S3                              11.0
1989                               9.8                                        _     _     _
1990                              15.4                                              0.007
1991                              45.7                          1.5                 0.008
1992                              51.2                          2.2                 0.008
1993                              38.8                          2.9                 0.008
1994                              25.7                          2.2                 0.008
1995                              26.8                          7.8                 0.008
1996                                                            0.6                 0.082
1997                                                  _    _      _    _0.008
1998                                                                                0.008
1999                                                                                0.008
2034                                                                                 0.008
As done at appraisal, it has been assumed that there would be no incremental cost over present 0 & M
costs of the existing UGC canal system.
2/ Valued at Rs3,440/ha as the net economic return per unit area under the future 'without project'
situation: 1990 - 0.04 ha; 1991 - 2.04 ha; 1992 - 2.32 ha; 1993 - 2.32 ha; 1994 onwards - 2.44 ha.



60
Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGIMP)(Cr.1483-IN)
Appendix 2: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 15. Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
Financial       Economic                    Seeds
Crops                            Prices           Prices         Financial _ Economic
__________________________   J    ______________  Financial        Econom ic
..... ......... (Rs ,/ton) .........
Paddy                            3,600            5,900            7,400            12,130
Wheat                             3,500           6,800            7,200            13,990
Maize                            2,900            5,630            10,400           20,190
Sorghum                           2,800           5,435            6,000            11,640
Groundnut                        8,600            9,050            14,000           14,730
Barley                            2,750           2,475            5,400             4,860
Potato                           2,880            2,590            4,000             3,600
Gram                              6,400           5,760            19,700           17,730
Mung                              7,600           6,840            19,500           17,550
Mustard                           8,100           7,290            16,600           14,940
Sugarcane                          610              755              700              630
Fodder                             200              180            6,000             5,400
Inputs                                                                         X
Fcrtilizer:
- N                               7,220           15,060
- p                              13,000           13,780
- K                               6,300           9,715                                         l
Farmyard manure/compost            150              135
(Rs/ton)                                                                                        l
Bullock pair (Rs/day)              125              113
Tractor (Rs/ha)                    200              180
Labour (Rs/day)                     32               29



Implementation Completion Report
INDIA:  Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernizatin Project (UGIMP) (Cr.1483-iN)
Appendix 2:  Economic Re-evaluation
Tabte 16.   Derivation of Economic Prices
_                                      Fertilizer
Unit              Paddy             Uheat           Groudniut           Sugar
Projected Worid market price                USS/ton             312                177               731               254               145              135              110
1995/2000 in 1994 constant USS '
Quality adjustment                             X                  75                90               100                98               100              100              100
World market equivalent                     USS/ton             234                159               731               249               145              135              110
International shipping, insurance          US$/ton               40                50                 50                50                50               50               50
c.i.f./f.o.b. Bombay                       US$/ton              274                209               781               299               195              185              160
c.i.f./f_o.b. Bombay2'                      Rs/ton            8,576             6,556             2. 500             9,380             6,117            5,803            5,019
Domestic handling & transport               Rs/ton              770                770               770               770               650              650              650
Conversion ratio                               X                  66                95                40                 10              100              100               100
Processing costs, net of value of           Rs/ton             (110)                -               (900)              (100)              -                -                 -
by-products                                                                                                                                                                           I
Wholesale price, raw product                Rs/ton            6,060             6,960              9,210               915             6,767            6,453            5,669
Transport to/from farmgate                  Rs/ton             (160)             (160)              (160)             (160)              160              160              160
Farmgate Price                              Rs/ton            5,900             6,800             9,050                755             6,927            6,613            5,829
Farmgate Price per nutrient3/               Rs/ton            5,900             6,800              9,050               755            15,060           13,780            9,715
1/ IBRD Coammdity Price Forecast of August 1994, adjusted by MUV index to obtain price in 1994 constant terms.
2/ Converted at the current exchange rate of USS1.00 = Rs3l.37.
3/ N, P, K - 46:48:60.



INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
¶aipl  17: Economic Anatysis: Risk Aversion Works                                                (      1)
(Rs. miLLion)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999 2000-03
NET BENEFITS
Prevented prod. loss            -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       .        -       -
Tctat econ benefits              -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -
COSTS
Costs: Main Canal            64.4    92.0   141.3   191L5   329.7   308.2   361.2   257.4   290.5   29839  262.6   208.0   131.9    53.8    34.3               - 
Opportunity cost of land         -       -     0.2      0.3     0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4
Total Costs                  64.4    92.0   141.5   191.8   330.1   308.6   361.6   257.8   290.9   299.3   263.0   208.4   132.3    54.2    34.7            0.4
Net Economic Benefits
Net benefits                -64.4   -92.0  -141.5  -191.8  -330.1  -308.6  -361.6  -257.8  -290.9  -299.3  -263.0  -208.4  -132.3   -54.2   -34.7    -0.4
11/14/1994  14:23



INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
2Sle 17: Economic Analysis: Risk Aversion Works                                                                                              (PaF   2)
(Rs. million)
2004-34
NET BENEFITS
Prevented prod. Loss         1434.0
Total econ benefits         1434.0
COSTS
Costs: Main Canal
Opportunity cost of land        0.4
Total Costs                     0.4
Net Ecunomic Benefits
Net benefits                 1433.6
11/14/1994 14:23
1W = 217,



INDIA: UPPER GANGA Irrigation Modernization Project
}ik1e 18: CANAL MODERNIZATION
Economic Analysis                                                            (PazJs? 1)
(Rs. million)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999 2000-01
NET BENEFITS
Incr. economic benefits           -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -
Total econ benefits               -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -
COSTS
Main Canal                     12.3    17.5    26.9    36.5    62.8    58.7    68.8    49.0    55.3    56.9    50.0    39.6    25.1               10.2      6.5        -
Civil Works                     0.4    31.9    69.9    36.9    28.0    27.1    29.1    40.6    65.0    50.3             5.0      2.8        -        -        -        -
Communication System              -        -        -        -        -     0.3      0.6      0.8      0.2      0.3    45.0         -       -        -        -        -
Engineering & Administr.       18.2    35.8    55.9    74.6   116.2   183.7   183.6   199.5   323.9   317.2   371.9   270.0    99.0    60.7    41.6                    -
Technical Services              0.4      4.1    16.2      6.8      6.9      5.6      4.9      4.1    10.0       0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5        -
Operation & Maintenance           -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -    34.0
Total Costs                    31.3    89.3   168.9   154.8   213.9   275.4   287.0   294.0   454.4   425.2   472.4   312.9   124.6    71.4    48.6    34.0
Net Economic Benefits
Net benefits                  -31.3   -89.3  -168.9  -154.8  -213.9  -275.4  -287.0  -294.0  -454.4  -425.2   472.4  -312.9  -124.6   -71.4   -48.6   -34.0
12/27/1994 8:58



INDIA: UPPER GANGA Irrigation Modernization Project
lti1 18: CANAL MODERNIZATION
Economic Analysis
(Rs. million)
2002    2003    2004 2005-18 2019-30 2031-34
NET BENEFITS
Incr. economic benefits   2975.1  2995.4  3032.4  3054.6  3581.2  2817.1
Total econ  benefits       2975.1  2995.4  3032.4  3054.6  3581.2  2817.1
COSTS
Main Canal                       -       -        -       -        -       -
Civil Works                      -       -        -       -        -       -
Coffunication System             -       -       -        -        -       -                                                                                                 C"
Engineering & Administr.         -       -        -       -        -       -
Technical Services               -       -        -       -        -       -
Operation & Maintenance      34.0    34.0    34.0    34.0    34.0    34.0
Total Costs                  34.0    34.0    34.0    34.0    34.0    34.0
Net Economic Benefits
Net benefits               2941.1  2961.4  2998.4  3020.6  3547.2  2783.1
12/27/1994 8:59
IR= 18.2.%



INDIA: UPPER GANGA Irrigation Modernization Project
rJtkie 19:  BULANDSHAHR Distributory
Economic Analysis
(Rs. million)                                                       (Pe  1)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
NET BENEFITS
Incr. economic benefit                -       -            -       -        -       -        -   0.700   3.000   9.000  18.400  31.600  47.700  64.800  81.200
Total econ benefits                   -       -        -       -        -           -        -   0.700   3.000   9.000  18.400  31.600  47.700  64.800  81.200
COSTS
Moderniz. Distrib.Comnand   0.800   4.800   2.700  11.000   9.800  15.400  45.700  51.200  38.800  25.700  26.800              -       -        -       -        -
Opportunity cost of land          -       *        -       -        -   0.007   0.008   0.008   0.008   0.008   0.008   0.008   0.008   0.008   0.008   0.008
Drainage improvement              -       -        -                -       -   1.500   2.200   2.900   2.200   7.800   0.600          -        -       -        -
Total Costs                  0.800   4.800   2.700  11.000   9.800  15.407  47.208  53.408  41.708  27.908  34.608   0.608   0.008   0.008   0.008   0.008
Net Economic Benefits
Net benefits                -0.800  -4.800  -2.700 -11.000  -9.800 -15.407 -47.208 -53.408 -41.008 -24.908 -25.608  17.792  31.592  47.692  64.792  81.192
12/22/1994  17:45



INDIA: UPPER GANGA Irrigation Modernization Project
'Iiel 19: BULANDSHAHR Distributory
Economic Analysis
(Rs. milLion)
-------------                                                              ~~~~~~~~~(Pg 2)
2001    2002 2003-34
NET BENEFITS
Incr. economic benefit      93.300  97.500  98.900
Total econ benefits         93.300  97.500  98.900
COSTS
Moderniz. Distrib.Comnand         -       -        -
Opportunity cost of land    0.008   0.008   0.008
Drainage improvement              -       -        -
Total Costs                  0.008   0.008   0.008
Net Economic Benefits
Net benefits                93.292  97.492  98.892
12/22/1994 17:45
IM = 16.8%



INDIA: UPPER GANGA Irrigation Modernization Project
MIhlb   20:  HARDUAGANJ Distributory
Economic Analysis
(Rs. million)                                                                   (      1)
1985     1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994      1995      1996     1997      1998
NET BENEFITS
Iner.------- e-.
Incr. economic benefits            -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -   -4.400   -3.400   11.100   31.900   54.600  109.500
Total econ benefits                 -        -         -         -         ---- -4.400   -3.400   11.100   31.900   54.600  109.500
COSTS
Moderniz. Distrib.Command    0.200    4.800    9.700   16.400   22.800   41.800   63.300   40.000   40.400   46.900   11.500                    -         -         -               a'
Opportunity cost of land            -         -         -        -         -    0.007    0.023    0.023    0.032    0.032    0.032    0.032    0.032    0.032
Total Costs                    0.200    4.800    9.700   16.400   22.800   41.807   63.323   40.023   40.432   46.932   11.532    0.032    0.032    0.032
Net Economic Benefits
Net benefits                  -0.200   -4.800   -9.700  -16.400  -22.800  -41.807  -63.323  -40.023  -44.832  -50.332   -0.432   31.868   54.568  109.468
12/22/1994 17:42



INDIA: UPPER GANGA Irrigation Modernization Project
iiW1e 20: HARDUAGANJ Distributory
Economic Analysis
(Rs. miLLion)
(Fai  2)
1999     2000     2001  2002-34
NET BENEFITS
Incr. economic benefits    145.500  164.400  168.000  169.600
Total econ benefits         145.500  164.400  168.000  169.600
COSTS
Moderniz. Distrib.Command          -        -         -         -
Opportunity cost of land      0.032    0.032    0.032    0.032
Total Costs                   0.032    0.032    0.032    0.032
Net Economic Benefits
Net benefits                145.468  164.368  167.968  169.568
12/22/1994 17:42
UR = 19.7%



70
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT (UGIMP
(Cr. 1483-IN)
Appendix 3
Status of Study Reports as on September 30, 1994
Study Reports approved by the World Bank
1.        Planning & Design Field Drainage System
2.        Drainage Requirement of Bulandshahr Dy. Command
3.        Drainage Requirement of Harduaganj Dy. Command
4.        Drainage Requirement of Machua Dy. Command
5.        Augmentation Tubewells
6.        Existing & Post-Modernization Groundwater Status in UGC Command for
districts of Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr and Aligarh
7.        Design Criteria for Bridges on Dys., Minors and Watercourses
8.        Design Criteria for Falls on Dys. and Minors
9.        Design Criteria for Head Regulators on Dys. and Minors
10.       Design Criteria for Cross Drainage works on Dys. and Minors
11.       Design of Irrigation Outlets
12.       M & E of Canals-Outlets Studies
13.       M & E of Canal Flow Measurement in Channels
14.       M & E of Project Construction Activities
15.       Methodology of Assessment of Irrigation Efficiency of Channels
16.       Financial Accounting System
17.       Guidelines for Preparing Project Completion Report
18.       M & E of Agricultural Performance in the Commands of Bulandshahr and
Harduaganj Dys.
Study Reports sent to the World Bank and approved on August 26, 1993
1.        Establishing a Water Charge System for UGIMP (approved by GOUP)
2.        Farmers' Organization for Efficient Water Use in UGC Command
3.        Review of 0 & M Organization for UGC System  (referred to GOUP
vide N-.783/A-11, dated 23.3.91 for concurrence on policy matters).
4.        M & E of Operation and Maintenance Activities
5.        Guidelines for 0 & M of UGC System
6.        Reconr aissance Drainage Master Plan
7.        Detailed Soil Survey in Modernization Blocks & Reconnaissance Surveys in
UGIMP
8.        Analysis of Quality of Groundwater in Harduaganj Dy. Command
9.        Use of Saline Groundwater in Harduaganj Dy. Command



71
10.      Water Application Methods in Bulandshahr, Harduaganj Command
11.      M & E of Agricultural Performance of Machua Dy. Command Identification
of Outlets
12.      Quality of Groundwater of Machua Dy. Command
13.      Crop Water Requirement and Cropping Pattern for UGIMP
14.      Strategy for Development of Rice Cultivation under UGIMP
15.      Proposal for Agricultural Extension Programme
16.      A Revi.ew on Adaptive Research Programme
17.      Lining of Watercourses sent to World Bank 2493 12.8.91, (p.65/Misc.)
18.      Alternatives for Canal and Distributary Lining sent to WB 2493/12.8.91
(p.165/Misc.)
19.      Computer Oriented MIS sent to WB 2494/12.8.91 (p.142/Misc.)
20.       Manual of Operation & Maintenance (sent to WB in 9/91)
21.       Existing & Post-Modernization Groundwater Status in UGC Command for
Districts of Saharanpur, Etah, Mainpuri, Agra and Mathura
22.       Review of Agricultural Inputs Services & Facilities necessary to achieve
project benefits:
Part I - Seeds; Part II - Fertilizers and Agro-chemicals.
Staff Reports sent to COUP; approval awaited
1.       Review of Duties and Powers of 0 & M Staff for UGC System
2.       A review of Northern India C:;nal and Drainage Act, 1873
3.        Draft for the bill for Uttar Pralesh Canal & Drainage Act
4.        Draft rules proposed under UI Canal & Drainage Act
Study Reports under Scrutiny and Comments
1.       A Review of IMO for Revenue and Water Supply
-     This study report consists of only one chapter of IMO. Whole IMO
is being revised by CE, MHP, Dehradun. Study report has been sent
to him.
2.       Implementation Schedule of Main Canal, km 6 to 36.
3.        Study of Plan of Integrated Operation of UGC & MUGC from km 6 to 36,
and from km 177 to 240
-     Final draft of the Report received from A9G is under scrutiny by SE,
UGC Mod.Circle-1(WB), Bulandshahr
4.        Evaluation of Agricultural Performance in Bulandshahr and Harduaganj Dy.
Modernization Blocks
-     Final Report received from APG sent to Jt.Director, Agriculture
Study Circle, Lucknow for scrutiny
5.        Review of Requirement and Availability of Agriculture Inputs, Services &
Facilities necessary to achieve project benefits
Part III - Farm Implements, Farm Power & Credit Inputs
-     Final Report received from APG is under scrutiny by Jt. Director,
Agriculture Study Circle, Lucknow
Part IV - Services and Facilities, Marketing, Processing, Storage & Roads
-     Report could not be submitted by APG due to non-supply of
data/maps from ADUP.



Implementation Completion Report
INDIA: Upper Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project (UGIMP)
(Cr.1483-IN)
Appendix 4.   Project Cost in Ucoinat and Real Terms
1              ~~~~~Final Cost
Appraisal Estimate /                                                   Totat Overrun       Price Overruzn      Quantity Overrun
Project Conionents                                             Actual ptus est97ated      In 1984 Prices
l _________________________________    _____________________         expenditure ure
.   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   (Rs    million)    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    X)    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
1. main canal                               1,403.1                   3,312.2                1,865.3                136                 103                  33
2. Modernization of distribution              363.7                     797.2                  446.1                119                  96                  23
sys t ems                                                                            _                                       _
3. Augmentation tubewells                       12.9                     29.3                   17.3                127                  93                  34
4. Drainage improvements                        82.4                     16.7                    7.9                (80)                 10                 (90)
5. Hydel stations                               58.3                                    _        _       ___ __
6. Communications system                        19.7                      2.3                    1.1                (88)                  6                 (94)
7. WALMI                                       64.1                     213.6                  110.0                233                 161                  72
8. Residential buildings                       120.8                    179.7                  119.3                 49                  50                  (1)
9. Technical services                           62.1                     53.9                   33.5                (13)                 33                 (46)
10.Engineering and aciministration            310.6                   2,470.4                1,269.0                695                 386                 309
Total Project Cost                       2 ,497.7                  7,075.3                3,869.5                183                 128                  55
1/ In 1984 prices.
2/ Actual expenditure up to Septemtber 30, 1994 plus costs to complete works by FY1999.



73
UPPEA GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(World Bank)
(Credit No. 1483 IN)
MONITORING AND EVALUATION CIRCLE (W. B.)
Irrigation Department, U.P.
Lucknow
Appendix 5
Comments on the Implementation Completion Report of UGIMP
The World Bank has sent Implementation Completion Report of the Upper Ganga
Irrigation Modernization Project (Credit 1483-IN) (UGIMP) on March 13, 1995 to the Special
Secretary, Uttar Pradesh Government, Lucknow. The World Bank has desired Government of
U.P.'s contribution to the ICR.
The World Bank in this ICR has taken pains in detailing and elaborating various aspects
relating to project objective, implementation experiences and project impacts. It has discussed at
length project sustainab.lity, project cost, implemention schedule, and various problems during
implementation, planning, design, operation, maintenance, management, monitoring evaluation,
drainage and training programmes on one hand, and agricultural, socio-economic, management
and installat;on and operation of independent communication computerised system on the other
hand. The project cost including physical and price contingencies was estimated at US$231.3
million (Rs.2497.7 million) including an IDA Credit of US$125 million. This project included
among other components replacement of four major cross drainage works, the prominent part to
protect the 150 year old irrigation system benefitting 924,000 ha.
The implementation of project was carried out strictly as per agreement between the World
Bank and Govt. of U.P. and under the guidance of World Bank Missions who visited the project
from time to time. The missions of World Bank used to supervise the progress of all works under
first time slice and used to issue Field Report incorporating engineering works, problems of typical
drainage areas, agricultural studies and research, management and design, difficulties and
suggestions thereof and steps for achieving quality control up to the required level.
LOAN COVEN1 .NTS
It has been indicated at page (iii) that out of three covenants first covenant, that is, retention
of consultants to advise in planning, design, operation etc., was fully complied with. The second
covenant, that is, installation and operation of dedicated and independent electrical feeder lines to
energise augmentation tubewells was partially completed because lines have been laid but
energisation of tubewells is still under progress. The third covenant, that is, increase in irrigation
rates to cover O&M cost and reasonable portion of investment cost has not been fully complied
with, is not correct as Government of U.P. has already increased the irrigation rates almost 100%
by Gazette notification No. 4417/94-27-1-4-2 Rate/94 dated 18.10.94 which was indicated by
Principal Secretary Irrigation during wrap up meeting. As such out of three covenants, two have
been fully complied with and one partially.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULT



74
Due to procedural requirement of Government of India the project experienced a delay of
two years due to forest clearance on the canal right of way and further 1-1/2 years in procedural
matters relating to international and local competitive biddings, as laid down by World Bank. Still
physical achievements have exceeded 80% of revised targets in all components except energization
of ATWS and three risk aversion structures (except Ranipur Syphon). It transpires that irrigated
agricultural production will further improve with the completion of balance works. The balance
work and part of completed works are beyond the scope of first time slice and should have been
counted towards H time slice. Despite initial loss of 3-1/2 years and other design, land acquisition
and contractual problems, the achievement is a bench mark towards completion of project beyond
first time slice. However, World Bank Authorities could not be brought home about additional
extension or IInd time slice. True, as stated above in the initial stage, the expenditure has been less
due to initial difficulties during first 3-1/2 years (see para 32 of ICR) and this was not less due to
inadequate funding (see para 34 of ICR).
The project envisaged provision of adjustable proportional modules (APM) for equitable
distribution of water for farmers tail end on volumetric basis. In Bulandshahr and Harduaganj
Distributary system APM were tried during the course of modernization of system. The local
persons were not used to this new APM and due to incorrect understanding, they damaged the
APMs (see para 34 of ICR). However, a decision was taken by World Bank Mission to construct
APM after completion of lining of distributary system, when full discharge is available in the
channel and the water users societies are established. After removal of APMs, the farmers are
making full use of increased water available due to lining of water courses (see para 19 of ICR).
The lining of three distribution system has almost been completed. The work of installation
of APM is proposed to be taken up with the World Bank Assistance for which a separate project
for completion of balance works of UGIMP and Madhya Ganga Project (MGP) has already been
formulated and submitted to World Bank through Government of India (GOI).
In India, very strict procedure has been laid for felling of green trees which results in
consuming time to sort out genuine cases, and in this case, much larger number of trees were
involved. A period of two years for issuance of clearance should not be termed as late in view of
involvement of environmental department. Government of U.P. exercised full pursuance at right
time at all points of clearance and got it within two years. This should have been envisaged in the
Project at initial stage. Similarly, approval of Advisory Planning Group (APG) consultants was
delayed by about a year as this was the first such formation of consultant group engaged in U.P.
As far as land acquisition process is concerned, the process itself is lengthy one, involving
publication of notification under different sections (section 4, 6, 17, 18) after verification of land
revenue authorities. Evely effort was made by U.P. Government to clear it at the earliest. This
land acquisition also involves issue of resettling displaced persons habitated on the proposed canal
alignment. This again is a complicated issue where displaced persons have given their choice for
particular piece of land where they desire to settle. On the other hand, displaced persons in some
area have gone to Court of Law stalling all the acquisition proceeding in progress. However, all
out efforts are being made to settle the outstanding issues to enable early acquisition of remaining
land.
Implementation Programme many times fails to take into account the various factors that
may and do hamper the progress of works due to cropping up of many unknown, unforeseen
conditions/situations/difficulties. This is true not only to this project in U.P., but many other
projects in India and even all other foreign countries. But the agency incharge of execution is
mainly responsible for tackling these unknown/unforeseen situations, and its efficiency is adjudged



75
by it, so that the delay is reduced to a minimum possible.
The implementing agency took stock of such situations whenever they crept up, whether it
was design of Solani Aqueduct or design for modernization of 3.5 km. Roorkee Reach of Upper
Ganga Canal (UGC), amendment of contracts for Solani Aqueduct or alternative contract for
construction of Pathri super passage after rescinding the original contract. The implementing
agency after taking stock of the renewed situation took immediate steps within its framework and
powers with laid down procedures and set right the things. It took time of course not envisaged in
the project implementation schedule, but it should not be termed as delay in meeting the new
situation. This is not uncommon feature elsewhere also. Similarly so called "delay" (para 34) in
implementing drainage works, construction of augmentation tubewells are marginal as sufficient
headway has already been made.
As far as provision of telecommunications facilities are concerned, it was something new
for the department and a lot of studies were required to be made to get the required suitable
communication system. Now studies for providing modern communication system has been
complete(' and provision of installation of communication system has been made in the project
report of completion of balance works already sent to World Bank through Government of India.
As far as implementation of adaptive research and extension programme is concerned, it
will be continued with the execution of project. It has been completed to large extent and delay in
this respect could have been conceived at a particular stage of time but now it is not so. The
adaptive research and extension programme is in place with the execution of project (para 54).
Lack of coordination among O&M staff and construction staff in the modernization of
distributaries has been quoted. Regarding the comparative statements of Targets and Achievements
as of September 30, 1994 in para 16, the achievements 98% minimum in lining and 90% to 101%
in water course modernization clearly shows that implementation agency has taken control of
differences among O&M and construction staff and sorted out, resulting in commendable progress
in this components of Project.
Government of Uttar Pradesh has issued the order enhancing water rates vide Gazette
notification No. 4417/94-27-Irri-4-2 Rate/94 dated 18.10.94. Principal Secretary Irrigation
Government of U.P. conveyed the decision to this effect in wrap up meeting on 17.10.94 (see para
8 and para 2 of ICR). As far as increase in O&M funds for proper maintenance of systems is
concerned, the mratter is under active consideration of Government of U.P. (para 11). A definite
strategy for energisation and operation of completed ATWs has been evolved and is under process
to complete it by 9/95. The balance nos. of tubewells shall be completed, energised and ready for
operation by 3/96. GOUP is very keen in increasing utilization of the existing irrigation potential
to give quicker agricultural benefits through new irrigation investments.
This strategy has nothing to do with politics of popularity (para 9).
The studies made by the Advisory Planning Group (APG) for improvement in design and
layout of major works, pattern of development of conjunctive use through ATWs, agricultural
studies including adaptive research programme, agricultural extension and design of layout of
drainage works have all been utilized in toto in respective fields making its full use. In general the
APG's reports were first sent to field officer for their comments and with their comments, if any,
reports were compiled by the Irrigation Department (ID) after review and sent to World Bank for
approval. This was not reported in ICR (para. 23).



76
Further, high level committees at Government level chaired by the Secretary Irrigation to
oversee project implementation were held at regular intervals not later than six months in any case
(see para 25).
Para 37 of ICR mostly elaborates the reasons of delay in execution of various components
of project, which in turn have briefly been given the Government side of the picture. The ICR
draft was prepared by Financial Analyst, Mission Leader Irrigation Engineer, Consultants and
Agronomist Consultants, who had not visited the works and their views are on the basis of records
put up to them and not actual circumstances/situations prevalent at various points of time. These
remarks should be modified with reference to actual situation as narrated above from Government
side which run nearest to facts.
Under para 39 of ICR, it has been stated that "concept of augmentation tubewells has faile(t
to a large extent. Firstly because they were not immediately put into operation and second, because
some were installed along distributaries which run two weeks out of five weeks rotation during
rabi .... although the Bank has recommended direct use by farmers group."
It is to be made explicitly clear that locations for installation of ATWs works was approved
by World Bank Mission during their field visits to enable for conjunctive use of water and to
provide for the farmers at tail end of distribution system. After construction and development of
these ATW, the World Bank has changed its strategy and they had indicated that the tubewells
should have been installed at the tailend where there is shortage of water. However, they desired
that the tubewells should be handed over to farmer groups. Govt. of U.P. is trying to energise all
the tubewells to make them operative to enable conjunctive use of water.
It is to be pointed out that in U.P. elections for panchayats are undcr process of
completion. A policy decision is likely to be taken very soon to hand over the operation and
maintenance of minor and water courses to the district panchayats which will enable the farmer
participation in operation and maintenance of the system. This will be a good obligatory
experiment for farmers participation in equitable distribution of water.
It is to be noted that construction standards of the project are upto the mark and extensive
lining of canals to minimize seepage losses has shown immediate results. The studies done on the
Harduaganj distributary and its minors (Parethi, Bara and Manau) indicate a reduction of more than
fifty percent in seepage losses as a result of lining and conveyance efficiency of lined water courses
is estimated at 90% compared to 78% of unlined water courses (see para 47).
Government of UP will take every step to provide adequate funds for upgraded
maintenance of pucca wo:ks especially the lining work, completion of balance ATW's and
energization of the ATW's. Government of U.P. has exercised full authority to accelerate
implementation of adaptive research and agriculture extension programme under the Project. As a
result the adaptive research and water management studies in the command of Bulandshahr and
Harduaganj Distributaries show impressive results. The farmers have reported an increase in
production up to 33% (para. 17 and 56).
Ouality Control
Under the guidance of World Bank Missions the quality of construction works was
improved to such an extent both in Madhya Ganga Canal (MGC) and the Upper Ganga Canal
(UGC) components that it was appreciated extensively by the missions in their field reports. The
lining work done in the tail reaches of Machu Distributary was also appreciated bv the missions.



77
Thex indicated in their report that the staff in charge of the work deserve compliments for getting
excellent quality of work executed by the contractors. The mission was also appreciative of the
high quality of work in the construction of the tail regulator of Mat Feeder Branch Canal (extract
taken from para 16 on page 5 of Field Report of World Bank dated April 11, 1994).
World Bank in September 1990 expanded the scope of Project to include the development
work of Agricultural Production by way of allocating credit under UGC to MGC, the
inter-connected irrigation system. This was a welcome step from UPID point of view. However,
World Bank extended the time for UGIMP as well as MGC year by year after September 1991.
This did not allow the implementing agency for advance long term planning in design,
entering into agreements, budgeting studies and irrigation research, besides execution of the
Project. The World Bank should have provided time extension of three to four years in a single
stretch to facilitate its working from all the above angles to achieve progress at a higher well
assessed pace.
From the perusal of the Staff Appraisal Report, it is evident that the completion of risk
aversion work of the project would be completed in period of 12 years from which UPID was
confident that the World Bank would continue to assist the UGIMP and MGP till completion of the
works already taken in hand. The closure of credit in September 94 where the works of these
projects were in full swing las left the implementing agency high and dry delaying indefinitely the
conversion of the potential of these projects into agricultural benefits. A high level World Bank
Mission from Washington visiled the Project in November 94 and saw for themselves the status of
the works completed and in pri:gress. The visiting team realized that to reap the benefits of the
huge investment of the order o0: Rs.6500 million mad., in the first time slice and to rid the total
catchment area of UGC which is of the order of 0.92 5 m ha of the high risk zone in which it
currently lies due to non completion of risk aversion works of UGC, it was necessary that further
IDA credit should be made available to enable the GC'UP to complete the balance works. It was
also stressed by visiting team that the Project report for the completion of balance work shall be
framed and sent to the World Bank through Government of India (GOI) at the earliest. It was also
indicated by the mission that a small provision of US$5 million should also be made for
preparation of UPWRCP to finance studies relating to water planning, O&M institutional reforms,
environmental appraisal and action plan, socio economic surveys, rehabilitation and resettlement by
Indian and foreign consultants under guidance of the World Bank. Accordingly a Project report
amounting to Rs.3805 million has been prepared and sent to World Bank through GOI. The
World Bank is requested to render necessary assistance to enable the completion of balance works
of UGIMP and MGP.
Bank Performance
In para 45 regarding appraisal in the last line it is mentioned that lack of proper field
investigations and design of appraisal stage seriously hampered the project implementation which
does not appear to be corTect. In fact design aspect was properly taken care of. However, during
implementation. certain doubts about adequacy of design of Solani and Ratmau Aqueducts were
raised which was confirmed on detailed checking resulting in delay in implementation.
In fact the Bank performance during the implementation of Project remained excellent. It
guided the implementing agencies in design, implementation and maintenance of various works.
The assessmenl of ICR mission of Bank performance in appraisal and supervision as deficient is
not justified. In fact it should have been satisfactory if not highly satisfactory.



78
Similarly in Borrower performance, implementation has been shown as deficient which is
definitely not correct. ICR Mission in these reports have appreciated the implementation of Project
except in telecommunication and farmers participation. The overall assessment in implementation
should also be satisfactory.



IBRD 17646R1
76-~~~~~~~~~~-
The  boundries  colors
denominotions and  any
other information sho-n
H/MACHAL  PRADESH                   r.                                                                                on  this map   do   not
<  y  \                                                          im~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,ply. on  the  part of
The World  Bank  Group.
any judgment on the legal
status  of any  territory,
or an~y endorsement
f              pL                        ~~~~~~~~~                  ~           ~          ~~~~~~C  H I N1 A  o, accepocofsh
UTTAR KASHI                                                                                          u b   e      ooundaries.
> r\            rh>                  N's.
0 t       l      CHAMOLI
-._ 6 gHRA DU  TEHAI GARHWAL
HARYANA_           `   ' )                   I            1 ( Bp.rI
P_ _    g  op    \/        PITHORAGARH
30-                  '-      '
S--ol3rur    /,                               
{ i>> G~~~ARHWAL ,  .
SAHAR                 GARWA
ALMORA     j                                                 INDIA
p-MU!,1181_   \     '  Al d     O
t MuzAn\roBbl   t ol   2             NsIm                                          ............ T  UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION
51Xi  IJRX  jMODERNIZATION  PROJECT
(,        ES       P ,       I      ,'    NAINITAL
>g    o,,*   t   A   5 R   '--J          PROJECT  AREA
Dp                                             I                                                                          PR ,_ECT AREA
/.c       _        MORADABAD r'-              ,
9 iL rU  )             '''  \~~~)     _ oP bb,l                                                             0 A  C  L)IS hlEl EL:|JI-RTE f 
J- >iebBIA                          7 ,AREILLY        PILIBHIT   \                                                    STIE
HAHA                              |..
-2><   'BUDAUN    ->       A                         p R
2  '  4B d..                                                  KHERI        (                                       DISTr,(     E Pul PA-
;MATHURA      E TH+           -HHAN                           P R < f  }$  {IC'  .       'SSA
MacA. ~ ~~~~~ETHSAH-IAICH
% M.n>% '^ [ < ~~~~~HARDsO  <)O'~
IA~~~~~~~Ar
A AGRA         MAINPURI 
--C--       r        '       J FARRUKHAR           V            FARA BANKI                       BASTI     GORAKHPUI1
_ S XE CT ~~~~~~~~~~~UNNAO                                                                               KO  _4,. DEORI A  V)
S ETAWAH    X   UII8n  \>                ~ ~~~~~~~ FAIZABAD                    011C
MADHYA  PRADESH                      I         / K ANPUR                               ON
26              q     JALAUS             ;      \    y       O       \S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SULTANPUR  -\    \_,            J
2e'/                                                                        RAE BARELi
T ']*) J              M~   f                     ,   \S  O  ru    K  AZAMGARH  '
7    ATIIUR    _' PRATAPGAORH                                      BALLIA
g zC: -m              r ,)   ~~~~~~FATEHPUR "                   JAUNPUR L,                   BLI
W/      X    ~~~~HAMIRPUR  2           ?       L      \                d1IR\        ,EGHA IU    >J°             ;
EG JHANSI S  }S  BANDA                                              ",_   VA A
g-t 4 & s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BIHAR
MADHYA  PRADESH                                              M
A   LALITPUR                                                                             ) 
K LO.E TEIS  tp    2                               
78                       OO                       O2
MAY 1995









IMA'GIN-
Rep cr t No,:       l145'76
TyL_e: IF



