Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repoit No. P-3804-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 117.5 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
May 3, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1, 1984)
US$1.00      =  Rs 10.956746
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.0912679
Rs 1 million = US$91,268
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 10.8.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ERR    -   Economic Rate of Return
GOI    -   Government of India
GOUP   -   Government of Uttar Pradesh
I&P    -   Investigation ancd Planning
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
ID     -   Irrigation Department
LCB    -   Local Competitive Bidding
M&E    -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MGC    -   Madhya Ganga Canal
O&M    -   Operation and Mai.ntenance
PCU    -   Project Coordinating Unit
SLDB   -   State Land Develcpment Bank
UGC    -   Upper Ganga Canal
UP     -   Uttar Pradesh
UPSEB  -   Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board
VLW    -   Village Level Worker



--iii-               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:              Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP).
Amount:                   IDA Credit: SDR117.5 million
(US$125.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                    IDA Credit:  Standard
On-lending Terms:         From the Government of India to the Government of
Uttar Pradesh as part of Central assistance for State
development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time. GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description:    The proposed project comprises a six-year time-slice
of a program for rehabilitation and modernizationr
of the Upper Ganga Canal (UGC) System. It would
(a) replace the existing (dilapidated) main cana:L
with a parallel lined canal together with modern
regulating and access structures; (b) modernize
43,000 ha of the distribution system with lined
channels down to and including watercourses;
(c) construct augmentation tubewells on the lined
distributaries; (d) undertake a reconnaissance
drainage survey of the UGC command area and a
detailed drainage study and pilot works program
within the distributary blocks to be modernized;
(e) initiate construction of a modern canal com-
munication system; (f) construct one small hydro-
electric station and initiate the civil works of
another station; (g) set up a water and land manage-
ment instiLtute; (h) strengthen the project
organization, train staff and provide study tours and
visits and technical assistance; and (i) provide
vehicles, plant and equipment.  The project wouLd
alleviate risks to the existing irrigation area and
increase agricultural production and the standa:rd of
living of farmers in Uttar Pradesh. Risks under the
proposed project include the possibility of a reduc-
tion in water supplies to the UGC System. However,
UGC has established user rights and GOUP would be
required to maintain the present water allocation to
the UGC system. There is also a risk of tampering
with the system. It is expected, however, that the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-iv-
lining of the minor canal system would make it dif-
ficult for offenders t.o tamper with the system. It
may also be difficult to recruit adequate staff.
This risk would be minimized by provision of techni-
cal assistance and GOUE' would employ an Advisory
Planning Group.
Estimated Cost: j/
Irrigation Components                                  (Us$ millions)
Local         Foreign         Total
Main Canal                                   75.6            12.1          87.7
Modernization of Distribution
System                                     15.0            2.2           17.2
Watercourse Modernization                      5.5            0.2           5.7
Augmentation Tubewells                         0.7            0.1           0.8
Drainage Improvements                       _ 5.5             0.3           5.8
Subtotal                                  102.3           14.9          117.2
Other Components
Communication System                          0.9           0.3             1.2
Water Management Institute                    4.1            0.2            4.3
Residential Buildings for
Irrigation Dept. Staff                     8.2           0.4            8.6
Hydel Stations                                3.3            0.7            4.0
Technical Services                           =3.1            1.6            4.7
Subtotal.                                 19.6           3.2           22.8
Engineering and Administration               20.6             -            20.6
Base Costs                               142.5          18.1          160.6
Physical Contingencies                     12.7           1.7            14.4
Price Contingencies                        49.8           6.5            56.3
Total Project Cost                          205.0          26.3           231.3
Financing Plan:                                        (US$ millions)
Local         Foreign         Total
GOI/GOUP                  106.3            -            106.3
IDA                        98.7          26.3           125.0
Total               205.0           26.3           231.3
1/ Includes taxes and duties which are insignificant.



-v
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89    FY90    FY9 L
Annual          5.0   13.8   20.3   22.4   23.0    23.0    17.5
Cumulative      5.0   18.8   39.1   61.5   84.5   107.5   125.0
Rate of Return:    About 20%.
Appraisal Report:  No. 4992-IN, dated April 27, 1984.



I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
Credit to India for SDR 117.5 million (US$125.0 million equivalent), on stand-
ard IDA terms, to finance an irrigation project in order to maximize crop
production and farmers' incomes through modernization and rehabilitation, of the
Upper Ganga Canal System. The proceeds of the Credit would be channeled to the
Government of Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the Government of India's stand-
ard terms and arrangements for financing State development projects. The
exchange risk would be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY i/
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
A Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an arnual per capita income of US$260.  The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at: factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose froml 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
/j Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Railway Electrification and Workshop
Modernization Project (No. P-3793-IN), dated April 30, 1984.



-2-
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment: have increased
markedly since 1950/51:  gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment:  a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.       Before the 1970s, India placed relativelv  less emphasis on export
^-omotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
~tween 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Gcvernment introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.       Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply short:ages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerg;ed after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.       In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 19,B1/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation.  Wholesa'Le prices rose by about 9% on



-3-
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in sup-
port of this effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient maanage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational
efficiency of the railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel, iron ore, coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in



-4-
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There
were no major shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily
from better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improve-
ment must result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important
that India maintain the pace of investment in tihese key sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a ssituation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the lale 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% ELnd 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater ebfficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP', envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of



-5-
suppliers' and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
relatively high underlying rates). In the period 1980-84 India contracted
commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and suppliers' credits of over
US$1,020 million. This borrowing has been used for specific development
projects in the public and private sectors (mainly for petroleum exploration
and development, steel, aluminum and shipping). India also reached an agree-
ment with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended FurLd
Facility for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 3.9 billion have already been drawn.
The transfer of funds under this arrangement has stemmed the use of foreign
exchange reserves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage
in 1981/82.  In January 1984, India announced that it would not utilize the
remaining SDR 1.1 billion because her external accounts have adjusted more
rapidly than was envisaged at the time the arrangement was formulated.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a. wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fifth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan
investment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been
needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, tran-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However,



-6 DE
there is scope to improve the secitoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better managemenL.  Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been
made, As demonstrated in the last- three years, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus lead-
ing to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the casle
of tradeable commodities like coal., steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage.  For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects.  In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
-jective.
7.    JUnder the Sixth Plan, India has atn ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment;.  While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domest:ic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 163% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85.  The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers muCh encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline it. its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy.  Rowever, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmianageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the



-7-
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 685.2 million, or about 14 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. The expectation of
a measurable decline in the population growth rate has not materialized. The
results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health
and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services. These
efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the
proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments.  There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.



--8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 160 development
credits to India totalling US$5,183 million and US$11,851 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,387 million has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1983.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1983 totalled US$286 million, representing a decrease of about
2 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983..
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which US$30 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and US$18
million cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$8 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and teleconmunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to Intdia's adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
i.ncrease the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short



-9-
supply and which India has a coimparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of tran,spor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India
continues to require a substanatial level of foreign assistance to India, both
to offset the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to
sustain the relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the
first four years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures.
India imports relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and coimpeti-
tiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign
exchange component tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly
the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordirngly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports of goods and services and receipts of
current transfers was about 12.9% in 1983/84. Over the next several years this
ratio is projected to rise to about 20% and remain around that level through
1995/96. As of September 30, 1983, outstanding loans to India held by t:he Bank
totalled US$3,932 million, of which US$2,100 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,832 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Banak Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's cutstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10--
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN UTTAR PRADESH
Backg round~
29,       The State of Uttar Pradesh (UP) in northeastern India with a
population of about 110 million (1981) is the most populous State in the
country and accounts for 16% of the total India population. However, its
geographical area (298,000 sq km) covers only 9% of the country. The popula-
tion density--377 persons per square kilometer, is extremely high. UP is
primarily an agrarian economy with agriculture contributing about 56% of the
States income and employing about 78% of the labor force.  In 1979/80, UP
had a per capita income of Rs 981 (about US$90,8), compared with the national
average of Rs 1,267. UP is among the poorest and, by most conventional
indicators, one of the least advanced of Indisas States.
Agriculture
30.       About 17 million ha of land are under cultivation in UP.  Slightly
over 70% of all farm holdings are below 1.0 ha, compared with about 50% in
the nation. The crops grown include paddy, maize, bajra, sorghum wheat and
barley, and about 67% of the croppesd area is planted with cereal crops. The
rest is shared between pulses and non-foodgrain crops, mostly oilseeds and
sugarcane.
31.       Since Independence (1948), UP's agricultural performance has been
mixed. Between 1950/51 and 1977/78, foodgrain production grew by an average
of 2% per annum, barely keeping pace with population growth. However, per-
formance of individual crops like oilseeds, sugarcane and potatoes has been
more encouraging. The 1950s were characterized by both expansion of cropped
areas, as well as yield increases, leading to respectable growth rates for
rice and wheat of 5.2% and 4.8%, respectively. In the 1960s, while rice
stagnated, wheat and maize production grew by 9.9% and 9.7% per annum,
respectively. The increases were mostly due to the introduction of improved
high-yielding varieties and accelerated development of private tubewells.
Although growth of wheat production slowed to 4.1% per annum in the 1970s,
rice production picked up again and grew at: 4.7% per annum between 1971/72
and 1977/78. The increases in production of rice and wheat, however, were
offset by a decline in production of other cereal crops such as maize and
barley.
Irrigation
32.       UP is well endowed with water resources.  The State lies within the
catchment areas of four major tributaries of the Ganges River system.
Nevertheless, only about 8.9 million ha (52%) of the total net cultivated
area of 17.0 million ha was irrigated in 1980. Between 1950/51 and mid-
1960s, surface and groundwater development contributed equally to the expan-
sion of the irrigated area in UP. Since 1965/66, however, groundwater
development has accounted for almost all the increase in the State's net
irrigated area.  In 1979/80, about 5.7 million ha (64%) of the total net



-11-
irrigated area was supplied with groundwater, 2.8 million ha by surface
irrigation schemes, and the remainer by storage tanks or lift pump schemes
from rivers.
Project Area
33.       Background.  The Upper Ganga Canal (UGC) system with a gross com-
mand area of about 1.95 million ha, lies between the Ganga and Yamuna Rivers
in western UP. The area has a sub-tropical monsoon climate characterized by
wet hot summers and relatively warm dry winters. Average rainfall varies
from about 1,050 mm in the north to about 650 mm in the southwest. The south
western monsoon contributes nearly 80% of the annual rainfall. The monsoon
shows considerable variations in amounts, distribution and times of onset.
Long dry spells may occur during the rainy season. These uncertainties make
irrigation imperative for successful crop production even during the monsoon
season. Natural drainage is provided by numerous streams flowing north to
south into the boundary rivers. Within the area are low-lands underlain by
fresh groundwater. The soils are alluvial and fertility levels are meditm to
high.
34.       Landholding and Land Tenure.  Rural population density is about: 470
persons per square kilometer. The average farm size is about 0.8 ha,
slightly smaller than the State average of 1.2 ha.  Holdings of less than
2 ha account for about 77% of the number of farms and 36% of the total area.
There is a number of ineffective legislations concerning land tenure. The
land reform issue to date has remained unresolved.
35.       Water Resources and Utilization.  The project area is within the
drainage basin of the river Ganga which is both international (Nepal, Tibet,
Bangladesh and India) and interstate (seven Indian States). The average
annual river flow at the project diversion point is about 17,500 Mm3. All of
the low flow of the river (October to May) is diverted into the UGC system
(about 2,150 Mm3 per year). In the high flow period, the diversion into the
UGC is governed by the canal capacity and averages about 2,750 Mm3 per year.
The diversion in the zaid (hot) season totals about 1,770 Mm3 per year. The
canal system consists of about 6,540 km of canals with a nominal design
capacity of about 1 cfs/100 ha. Under the present conditions, the canal
system can provide barely two irrigations during the rabi (dry) season wrhen
river water supplies are low. In kharif (monsoon) season, canal water sup-
plies generally exceed demand at the start and end of the season. In addi-
tion to the UGC system, there are (existing, under construction and planned)
five other canals with a combined diversion capacity of about 1,204 cumecs.
The Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) has also a number of storage schemes
under construction in the project area.
36.       Over the years, farmers in the upper third of the UGC system have
taken more than their fair share of water supplies and are growing substan-
tial areas of sugarcane. Farmers at the head of the system and near the
outlets draw considerably larger amounts of water than those less favorably
located. This inequitable water distribution has become an established, water
right and is supported by heavy investments in sugar processing facilities.
It is essential to generate additional water supplies for tail-end users who
receive both in terms of quantity and quality, a poor irrigation service.
Additional water sources within the UGC system would be through reduction of
seepage losses in the unlined conveyance system, and development of



-12-
groundwater for conjunctive use with the surface water supplies.  Implict in
the planning and design of the proposed project are the assumptions that GOUP
wouLd (i) allocate to the UGC system the same water supplies from the Ganga
as the UGC project has historically received given the variations in the
River Ganga base flows; (ii) allocate water supplies equitably within the
pro:,ect command; and (iii) allocate to modernized blocks the water supplies
per unit command area as shall be required to irrigate such modernized
blocks.
37.       Groundwater.  The project area is underlain by alluvial deposits
which form a single heterogenous acquifer system which exceeds 1,000 m in
thickness in some parts. The acquifer system is recharged mainly by rain
percolating from canals, field losses and infiltration of floodwaters. A
groundwater study of the UGC command area ind,"cates an estimated mean annual
recharge of 6,200 Mm3. Net extraction by various types of tubewells and
dugwells amounted to about 3,800 Mm3 in 1980/81 or about 61% of the
groundwater resources. The prospects of further groundwater development in
the p-roject area are therefore good.
33.       Crops and Cropping Patterns.  The area has a three crop season
zone£s: the zaid, hot season (March--June); kharif, monsoon season (July-
October); and the rabi, dry season (November-March).  Apart from a small area
n dei orchards, the only perennial crop is sugarcane.  The area under
irrigated wheat averages over 30% of the cultivable command area in the
northern districts, and between 24% and 28% in the southern districts. Rice
growing areas increase inversely with that of sugarcane (8% in the north, 30%
-n the south). Other irrigated kharif cl'ops occupy 43% of the cultivable
areas in the north, and 16% in the south. Zaid cropping intensities are very
low because of limited and unreliable water supply. Present yield levels of
principal crops compare well with averages obtained in similar areas in
IDdia
Agricucltural Support Services
39.       Agricultural Research and Extension.  Agricultural research is a
responsibility of the C.S. Pant and C.S. Azad State Agricultural
Universities.  Adaptive research is a responsibility of the Department of
Agriculture (DA), and the State maintains an irrigation research institute
aid a horticulture research station. Central Government research institutes
Lor sugarcane, grasslands and soil conservation are also located in the
State, Research programs cover all branches of agriculture but focus on
fertilizer use, pest control and crop varieties. There have been some
notabLe achievements, including the development of high recovery sugarcane
w.qrieties. Limited work has also been done in cultural practices.  Overall,
search facilities are adequate.  Azad Agricultural University
a  -j zot later than December 1, 1984 prepare a proposal for an applied
agricultural research program acceptable to IDA for submission to the Indian
Council of Agricultural Research for its review and comment; (ii) review and
update the program annually; and (iii) commence adaptive research investiga-
tion by not later than June 1, 1985 (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.09).
1½ Department of Agriculture is responsible for extension, although
p:-im,&z-:;v contact with the farmers is through multi-purpose village level
-'frk:r. (.'LWs) of the Department of Community Development.  VLWs receive
idz--nz-s from the DA on technical matters. There is one VLW for every 3,000



-13-
farm families. The system is inadequate because (i) extension services are
poorly planned and supervised; (ii) VLWs have too many responsibilities and
cover too large areas; (iii) linkages with research and training are weak;
and (iv) VLWs lack transportation and housing. GOUP is aware of these
weaknesses and is considering the introduction of the Training and Visit
system. GOUP will, by December 31, 1986, strengthen, as required, the exist-
ing organization such that it can adequately provide extension services in
the Bulandshahr and Aligarh administrative districts of UP (draft Project.
Agreement, Section 2.08).
41.       Agricultural Inputs. Storage and Marketing.  There is a well-
developed system for distribution and sale of fertilizers, pesticides and
seeds throughout the project area. Fertilizers are marketed mainly by the
private sector. The DA has declining sales of only about 10% of the total
used. Fertilizer consumption growth rate is about 9% per annum. The exist-
ing network for pesticide distribution is also adequate. Improved seeds are
produced and marketed by the DA and by the Bank-supported Terai Seeds
Corporation (Ln. 614-IN). The main market is for hybrid pearl millet seed
and wheat. The marketing facilities in the State are adequate. The
foodgrain surpluses in the State are procured by GOI agencies and private
traders. The State and the Central Marketing Federation provide most of the
storage capacity which is adequate.
42.       Agricultural Credit.  The cooperative banks provide short and
medium-term loans mainly for the agricultural inputs with the State
Cooperative Bank at the State level, fifty-five branches at the district,
level, and 1,200 primary cooperative credit societies, The State Land
Development Bank (SLDB) through its 54 branches provides long-term credit (up
to 15 years). Commercial banks also play a major role in agricultural
lending.  Overdues of cooperative banks presently are about 25% of the demand
and State-wide recovery performance of the SLDB in 1981-82 was about 66,.
Generally, there are no serious credit constraints.
Bank Group Lending for Irrigation in UP
43.       The Bank Group has assisted UP in financing a number of projects in
the population, water supply, power and agricultural sectors. With regard to
irrigation, the Bank Group provided four credits and one loan (Credits
540-IN, 715-TN, 947-IN and Loan 2186/Credit 1269-IN) to the Agricultural
Refinance Development Corporation (ARDC) for the First, Second, Third and
Fourth ARDC Projects which onlent the funds for private tubewell develepment.
The First UP Tubewell Irrigation Project (Credit 8-TN, US$6 million approved
in September 1961) financed the construction of 800 deep public tubewells.
Implementation of the tubewell construction program was satisfactory.
However, two years after project completion, a review mission found a number
of problems with regard to tubewell operation causing economic benefits to
fall short of expectations. This was related to poor construction standards,
lack of effective water management and appropriate procedures for systems
operations and maintenance.
44.       The UP Public Tubewell Project (Credit 1004-IN, US$18 millioni
approved April 15, 1980) was designed to demonstrate the merits of techunical
and operational improvements, and specifically to address the shortcomings
which affected the first project. The project supported construction of
about 500 public tubewells of improved design. It also incorporated water



-14-
allocation and well operation and maintenance procedures, and an assistance
program to beneficiary farmers. The experience gained with the project
confirmed that improved wells can be constructed on a wide scale at an
acceptable cost, and can provide timely, reliable and equitable water
delivery to all farmers in a command area.  A Project Completion Report is
under preparation.
45.       The Second UP Public Tubewells Project (Credit 1332-IN, US$101
million approved in March 1983) was aimed at raising agricultural production
and farm incomes through construction and upgrading of public tubewell
irrigation systems. The project incorporates the lessons learned from the
first project, in particular, with respect to improved technology and reli-
able water supply. It supports the (i) construction of 2,200 new tubewell
systems; (ii) upgrading of 750 existing tubewell systems; (iii) agricultural
support services to farmers in the project command area; (iv) research;
(v) training of irrigation and agricultural staff; and (vi) project monitcor-
ing and evaluation. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactory.
PART IV - TIlE PROJECT
Background
46.     The project was appraised in Jaruary/:February 1984.  Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. in April 1984, with an Indian delegation coor-
dinated by Mr. S. Krishna Kumar of the Government of India's Department of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. The St:aff Appraisal Report
(No. 4992-IN) dated April 27, 1984 is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. A Supplementary Data Slheet is attached as Annex III.
47.     Prior to project appraisal, the Government of Bangladesh was informed
of the Bank's intention to assist India to implement the project. It was
also advised that the project would have no harmful effects to Bangladesh.
The Government of Bangladesh sent to the Bank a questionnaire concerning the
project and requested answers to enable it to determine whether the proposed
project would adversely affect Bangladesh. The Bank provided answers to the
Government and additional information is available in the Staff Appraisal
Report, which the Bank has sent to the Government. The appraisal has con-
firmed the Bank's earlier conclusion that the proposed project would not
adversely affect Bangladesh. The absense of express consent by the
Government of Bangladesh therefore is not material.
Project Rationale
48.     The Upper Ganga canal system which was constructed during early to
mid 19th century reached the end of its effective life span by the mid 1970s.
There is a very high risk of the main canal collapsing with disastrous conse-
quences to agricultural production in the State, and hence, there is an
urgent need to take measures to avert the risk, Moreover, the design stand-
ards and technology of the 19th century can no longer meet present day
requirements of the agricultural sector. It is also necessary to improve
planning and design of downstream irrigation works so that water would reach
farmers' fields equitably. In addition, since all the dependable water
resources in the River Ganga have been committed, the only way to provide



-15-
additional supplies is from the existing command areas through investments in
better utilization of the available supplies.
49.     The proposed project would be a complex and comprehensive rehabilita-
tion and modernization of a major irrigation system in the State, involving a
major construction program, while at the same time maintaining the existing
irrigation services. The project would require advanced technology and
improved implementation procedures which the Bank can provide. In addition,
the Bank would facilitate improvement of the Irrigation Department's
capability for sectoral and project planning, design, monitoring, evaluation,
overall management and operation and maintenance.
Project Objectives
50.     The main objectives of the project are to:  (i) avert a serious risk
of the UGC system failing; (ii) rehabilitate and modernize the system and to
use the savings in water supplies to increase the irrigated command area;
(iii) increase water supplies through conjuctive use of groundwater;
(iv) improve the State's capacity for sectoral and project planning and
overall management of irrigation schemes; and (v) enhance the benefits from
the sunk costs in the Madhya Ganga Canal (MGC) system which interrelates with
the UGC system.
Project Description
51.     Risk Aversion Works.  There is a high risk of the UGC system failing
because (i) the structures have exceeded their expected life span despite the
heavy load imposed on them; and (ii) the canal regularly carries discharges
greatly in excess of design. The structures are showing signs of
deterioration, and the possibility and potential effects of failure are such
that the structures should be replaced as soon as possible. Consequently,
under the project funds would be provided for risk aversion works including
replacement of the following structures: (i) Rampur Super passage (5 miles);
(ii) Pathri Rao Super passage (8 miles); (iii) Dhanori Level Crossing
(13 miles) and (iv) Solari Aquaduct (18 miles). The peak capacity of the
main canal would be increased from about 294 to 350 cumecs to about mile 13
with the additional 50 cumecs required to operate a silt exclusion structure.
The new canal would also be lined. The main canal common to both the UGC and
MGC systems (mile 118 to 148) would be modernized and enlarged. A new lined
parallel canal would be constructed to complement the existing unlined main
canal which would be rehabilitated.
=         52.     Main Canal.  Work would be initiated on a lined parallel replacement
channel. The replacement channel would be designed and lined to reduce
seepage losses and maintenance needs and sufficient control structures would
be provided so that the system can respond efficiently to changing seasonal
water demands. The new channel would replace rather than complement the
existing main canal. Cross regulators on the main canal would be provided
with radial gates designed for eventual mechanization with electric motors.
Access structures would be designed to accommodate modern loading factDrs.
The main canal would be constructed so that water saved from lining and
additional water supplied from ATWs would be conveyed to the lower part of
the UGC command area.



-16-
53.     Canal Distribution Systems.  Existing water control and regulation
facilities are designed to outdated standards. Many have reached the end of
their useful life, and most of them are in poor condition and are inadequate.
Under the project, funds would be provided for modernization of the distribu-
tion system.  The modernization works would include (i) rationalization of
the various canal command area elements; (ii) elimination of direct outlets
from main, branch and major distributory canals; (iii) lining of canals;
(iv) provision of improved regulation structures to control water delivery
within the system and (v) provision of escape structures. GOUP would carry
out the planning, design, construction, and operation and maintenance of the
project works in accordance with standards and criteria acceptable to IDA
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.05(a)).
54.     Canal Communications System.  Funds would be provided under the
project for upgrading canal communications in order to meet modern-day
requirements for accurate and rapid canal regulation. The enhanced com-
munication capabilities would help improve canal system operations and
management efficiency. The project would provide for two-way radio sets,
additional hand-held units on a pilot demonstration basis and services of a
consultant to assist with planning of the communications network. GOUP has
completed a radio frequency feasibility study for the canal communications
system. The necessary radio frequencies for the UGC communication system
would be allocated to the project authcrities by August 31, 1985 (draft
Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
55.     Watercourse Modernization.  Funds would be provided under the project
for modernizing -- mainly lining, of about 950 watercourses within the dis-
tributory block commands to be modernized under the project. The lining for
an individual watercourse would average about 75% of its total length (a
typical watercourse is about 1.7 km in length, serves an area of about 45 ha
and has a capacity of about 1.0 cusecs). Lining would be constructed by
brick masonry on an in situ concrete slab bed or with brick masonry bed over
a compacted subgrade. Watercourse modernization would include construction
of improved gated turnouts, division boxes, culverts, cross-drainage struc-
tures and falls. In addition, provision would be made for maintenance during
construction and running-in period of about six months for each modernized
watercourse, during which period performance would be monitored. Monitoring
results would be used to improve quality control standards. Specifications
would be modified and, if justif:ied, improvements would be introduced.
56.     Augmentation Tubewells (ATWs).  The project would finance installa-
tion of about 33 ATWs, with a total capacity of about 2.2 cumecs, spaced to
deliver about 3 cusecs per 1.5 mile reach of canal. Each ATW would consist
of a well, submersible pump unit, switchgear, starter and protection relays,
delivery pipework and power lines. ATWs would be placed along the dis-
tributaries so that the capacity of ATWs would not exceed 20% of surface
water capacity in the parent canal. GOUP would (i) provide independent
electric 11 kV feeders from the 132 kV substations to connect all ATWs; and
that these feeders would serve only the project's ATWs; (ii) provide ATWs
with continuous power supply as required; (iii) energise each project
tubewell system according to a schedule t:o be prepared by ID not later than
September 30, 1984; and (iv) provide independent switch gear at the head of
each dedicated feeder line (draft Project Agreiement, Section 2.18).



-17-
57.     Drainage Improvements.  The project would include the construction
of minor irrigation channels to remove excess rainfall during the monsoon
season and provide outlets for canal escapes. Link drains would be provided
where necessary. Under the project, a detailed plan would be prepared for
the distributary command areas to be modernized, and a pilot drainage work
program would be initiated and include channels and access structures. In
addition, a reconnaissance level survey would be undertaken to prepare a
general drainage plan for the entire UGC command.
58.     Hydel Stations.  There are eight generating stations on the existing
UG main canal with installed capacity of about 45 MW, all of which are reach-
ing the end of their useful life span.  Under the project, new power houses
would be constructed on a replacement parallel channel near existing gener-
ating stations. The project would finance civil works undertaken by the
Irrigation Department (ID) as part of the canal construction program.
Procurement and installation of mechanical and electrical equipment and
switch yards to connect the stations to the grid would be a responsibility of
the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board (UPSEB).
59.     Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI).  Under the project, GOUP
would initiate an in-service training program in water management and land
development for irrigated agriculture, as part of its long-term program to
strengthen the professional cadre for irrigation management in the State!.
The program would also focus on improved technology in the operation of
irrigation systems. A new training center with residential and training
accommodation would be constructed at Okhla, near New Delhi.  Provision would
be made for equipment, incremental staff salaries and allowances, consuLtant
services and limited training visits for institute staff both within India
and abroad. Before the new buildings are completed, the program would be
conducted in a temporary accommodation. GOUP has sanctioned WALMI and
appointed its Director. GOUP would (i) maintain WALMI headed by a Director
with suitable qualifications and experience; and (ii) by September 30, 1985,
draw up a student training program acceptable to IDA and start training by
March 31, 1986 (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.07).
60.     The ID has difficulty in attracting qualified staff because of its
inability to provide housing accommodation. Under the project, residerttial
buildings would be constructed for ID staff. Buildings used during construc-
tion would be handed over to O&M staff. The project would also provide funds
for purchasing equipment and vehicles for efficient operation, effective
maintenance, monitoring and evaluation, and for special studies to be under-
taken by consultants.
61.     Technical Services.  Funds would be provided for ID to employ both
domestic as well as foreign consultants in order to improve the ID's capacity
for sectoral and project planning, design implementation and evaluation, as
well as general management and operations and maintenance. The project would
finance the cost of an Advisory Planning Group which would include interna-
tional consultants working in joint venture with the domestic consultants.
The consultancy service would involve about 154 man months. The monthly cost
including salaries, fees anad subsistence for both local and foreign consult-
ants would average about US$1,250 and US$8,700, respectively. By
December 31, 1984, consultants would be employed by GOUP in accordance with
IDA's guidelines, with terms of reference which have been agreed with IDA and



-18-
with experience and qualification satisfactory to the Association (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.02).
Organization
62.     Overall responsibility for project impliementation would rest with
the Secretary of the State Ministry for Irrigation and Energy. Two agencies
under him would implement the project: the Irrigation Department which is
responsible for constructing, operating and maintaining surface and public
ground water irrigation schemes in the State and UPSEB which is responsible
for constructing, operating and maintaining power transmission and also for
procurement and installation of mechanical and electrical equipment for hydel
stations. The Department of Agriculture would be responsible for agricul-
tural development activities.
.3.     A Chief Engineer has been appointed by GOUP to act as the Project
Coordinator. He would be assisted by a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) which
has been established by GOUP. The PCU would coordinate all project
activities including collating expenditures for reimbursements from IDA,
prepare project reports and maintain a link with project beneficiaries. The
PCU would be maintained within the ID with a suitably qualified and
experienced Chief Engineer (Level I) appointed to head it (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.06).
64.     Under the project, the ID would be strengthened with the following
additional units: (i) the PCU and a Project Accounting Unit. In addition
to coordination, the PCU would be responsible for the administration of the
Water and Land Management Institute; (ii) an Investigation and Planning (I&P)
Wing headed by a Chief Engineer, including three I&P circles, an Irrigated
Agriculture Unit, Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and Quality Control
Circle; the I&P would be responsible for coordinating the work of the
Advisory Planning Group; (iii) a Design Wing which would be responsible for
all design of channels and structures; (iv) a new Construction Wing; (v) two
additional circles to the O&M Wing; and (vi) a new Construction and O&M wing.
GOUP would sanction and fill staff positions in accordance with an organiza-
tion plan and staffing schedule established in consultation with IDA and
train such staff so that the ID can carry out the} project program and operate
and maintain the project works (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.05(d)).
65.     At present there is no canal system in UP designed to the project's
standards. Under the project GOUP would (i) undertake, with terms of
reference acceptable to IDA, a management sltudy for establishing rules and
procedures for general management of the UGC system together with routine
operation and preventive maintenance; (ii) submit by September 30, 1985, a
report summarizing the results of the study to IDA for its review and
comment; and (iii) taking into consideration IDA's comments, thereafter
implement the recommendations of the study (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.10). In addition, GOUP would (i) operate and maintain the UGC
system such that the quality of irrigation servicis envisaged under the
project can be achieved; and (ii) provide adequate funds for operation and
maintenance and on June 1 each year, commencing June 1, 1985 inform IDA of
the annual financial and other allocations made for the operation and main-
tenance for both the surface and groundwater irrigation works under the
project and the overall UGC scheme (draft Project Agreement, Sections 2.05(b)
and 3.04).



-19-
66.     Monitoring and Evaluation.  The ID would coordinate monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) activities. The M&E activities would focus on (i) technical
aspects including project implementation, design standards, specifications,
alternative canal and watercourse lining techniques, channel design standards
including freeboard and labor intensive construction methods; (ii) system
water management from headworks to the watercourse; and (iii) routine
monitoring of O&M of the irrigation system. Data generated through M&E would
be essential for the preparation of future development phases of the UGC
system. Progress reports would be prepared and submitted to IDA on a
quarterly basis starting January 1, 1985, to be submitted to IDA within two
months after the end of the reporting period, and a project completion report
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the project closing date
(draft Project Agreement, Sections 2.12(d) and 2.13).
Cost Recovery
67.     GOUP has been vigilant with regard to keeping its water rates under
review and collecting water charges. The charges are determined on a
Statewide basis and paid to the Treasury as a part of general revenue. lWater
rates are on a cropped area basis and vary from Rs 87 per ha for kharif
foodgrains (other than paddy) to Rs 237 per ha for sugarcane. The revenue
assessment in the UGC command area was Rs 78 million (1982/83). The expendi-
ture for O&M in 1982/83 for the UGC scheme was about Rs 51 million. Alt'hough
revenue exceeds O&M costs by Rs 27 million, O&M of the UGC scheme is known to
be underfunded. The budgetary allocation for O&M is not equated with the
level of water charges. In addition to water charges, GOUP receives revenue
from sales and commodity taxes, provision of support services and rural
infrastructure and selling produce in regulated markets. Indirect taxation
provides the main source of public revenues from agriculture (about 90%).
68.     With this project, two basic objectives would be pursued concerning
cost recovery and O&M: (i) the establishment of a structure and level of
cost recovery which would be adequate to cover O&M and a reasonable portion
of the capital costs, taking into account farmers' ability to pay; and
(ii) adequate budgetary allocation for O&M for efficient operation and
preventive maintenance. To achieve these objectives, funds would be provided
under the project for GOUP to undertake a study which would provide a basis
for a proposal for establishing a water charge system for modernized irriga-
tion areas within the command area of irrigation schemes. The proposals for
the study together with a timetable for implementing the recommendations of
the study, would be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1985, for its review and
comment. After taking into account IDA's comments, GOUP would introduce the
new water charge system in accordance with the agreed timetable (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.05(b)). Meanwhile, GOUP would continue to set
water charges for surface irrigation systems with regular reviews of the cost
of providing the service to ensure that the revenue covers the average opera-
tion and maintenance costs and a reasonable share of investment costs of new
and modernized schemes taking into account the payment capacity of the
irrigation beneficiaries (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.06). In
addition, UPSEB would charge the ID for electricity for augmentation
tubewells constructed under the project on a metered basis (draft Pro'ject
Agreement, Section 3.07).



-20-
Proiect Cost and Financing
69.     Total project costs are estimated at US$231.3 million equivalei_-t
including taxes and duties which are insignificant. Foreign exchange costs
are estimated at US$26.3 million (11% of the total costs). Physical contin-
gencies amount to approximately US$14.4 million, while price contingencies of
US$56.3 million are based on expected annual price increases for both local
and foreign costs of 7% from 1984/85, 8% in 19135/87 and 6% thereafter.
Details of the project costs are included in the Credit and Project Summary.
70.     The proposed IDA credit of US$125.0 million equivalent would finance
about 54% of total cost including 100% of foreign expenditure and about 48%
of local costs. The balance would be borne by GOI and GOUP.
Procurement and Disbursement
71.     Annex IV, attached, details the manner in which items will be
procured under the project. Civil works for the main canal (US$87.1 million)
in excess of US$6 million per contract would be let on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group's
guidelines. Similar works would be packaged where practical. However, the
bid packages would be designed also to allow bidding for all or any part of
the work. Indian contractors would be entitled to a 7% preference for the
purpose of bid evaluation. Some civil works (US$55.9 million) which would be
individually small (less than US$6 million per contract), scattered over a
large area and carried out intermittently, would not be suitable for ICB.
They would be let on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB). Some
works contracts (US$1.5 million) would have been let between January 1984
(when the project was appraised) and September 1984 when project implementa-
tion is expected to start (advance contracting). These contracts are not
suitable for ICB and would be let after LCB on the basis of the Central Water
Commission's procedures satisfactory to IDA. Works outstanding after
September 1984 under such on-going contracts would be eligible for financing
from the proposed credit. Works which would not be suitable for either LCB
or ICB (US$22.7 million) would be small and scattered and their implementa-
tion governed by weather and agricultural conditions. These works would be
carried out under small piece-work or rate contracts and GOUP departmental
forces.
72.     UPSEB would be responsible for power transmission and transformation
works including procurement and installation of electrical and mechanical
equipment (US$1.8 million). It would use its standard specifications and
General Conditions of Contract approved by IDA. Only contracts exceeding
US$0.5 million equivalent would require IDA approval prior to contract
awards. Equipment, instruments and vehicles would cost about
US$12.8 million, of which about US$5.8 million would be procured through ICB
and US$5.2 million would be procured through LCB procedures. In addition,
US$1.8 million would be procured locally with units grouped to promote
efficiency. However, bids would also be accepted on individual schedules
to allow small manufacturers to compete. A preference limited to 15% or the
import duty if lower would be extended to local manufacturers in evaluation
of bids. The goods to be purchased locally would be assigned throughout the
project area and therefore accessibility to spare parts and prompt service
facilities is essential. There is adequate domestic competition and prices
are reasonable. All bidding packages for works estimated to cost



-21-
US$0.5 millio-n or more and for goods costing US$100,000 ecuivalent or more
would be subject to TDA pre-actioni review. The remaining contracts would be
subject to IDA post-acLion review.
73.      Disbursemen-ts would be made for:  (i) 100% of the foreign expendi-
tures for direatlYS i_ported equipment; (ii) 100% for locally manufactured
goods procured ez-factory; (iii) 70% for other locally procured goods;
(iv) 100% of expenditure for technical services and canal communications
system; (v) 90% of expenditure for the water and land management institute;
(vi) 65% of expenditures fox civil works; (vii) 75% of expenditures on ATWs,
and (viii) 70% of expenditures on Residential Buildings for Irrigation
Department Staff,b  Disbursements for works constructed by departmental forces
and for payments of less than Rs 300,000 for works and Rs 150,000 for goods
may be made against certificates of expenditures, itemized by sub-project.
Documentation fox these works would be retained by GOUP and made aailable
for inspection by IDA during review missions.  Full documentation would be
required for al L other disDursements,  The expected rate ol disbursement
follows t   the  icl disbursement profile in the Indian irrigation sector for
the first three vears of project implementation; the rate of disbursement
thereafter remain,s constant as the project is the first time slice of a
long-term developmeat program.
Benefits. ,UStfication and Risks
74.     The proiaect iould reduce the risk of failure in the main canal head
reach. Suich a railure would be catastrophic to the UGC command area
(720,000 ha), Project works would also ensure irrigation service to about
300,000 ha comanded by the UG main canal. The lined replacement canal under
the project would save about 240Mm3 of seepage losses each year, improve
channel capacity and improve the managability of the UGC system to benefit
all areas served, The rehabilitation and modernization of the existing works
will enhance the quantity and quality of irrigation service as a whole.
75.      QuantiAftabLe benefits from the project would be an increase in
irrigated area by 90O0  ha,  The annual incremental agricultural production
at full project developmen,  would be for sugarcane about 41,000 tons,
foodgrain about 33,000 tons and oilseed 390 tons.  The total value of produc-
tion woul d increase by about US$10 million per year. About 533000 farm
families would beiefit directly from the project.  A considerable increase in
employment would be generated by project construction works and additional
farm work.
76.     The economic rate of return (ERR) for main canal modernizatioa is
about 19% and about 22% for canal distribution blocks.  The overall E:R  is
about 20%   The results of the sensitivity analysis of the ERR to changes in
a number of paramaeters, including conversion factors values, economic wage
rates and O&M costs, indicate that only large deviations would make the
project economicaliy unviable.
77.     Project benefits and their distribution could, however, be sig-
nificantly affect:id Lf water supplies to the UGC system are reduced by
diverting the w r to otier projects.  This risk is mtinimal however, because
UGC has also esa&li shed users' rights.  Moreover, assurances have been
obtained tb.at G&UP would maintain the present water allocations to the UGC
system.  The deterioratioa of the existing UGC system  has undermined farmers'



-22--
discipline and has resulted in tampering with the system. However, lining of
the minor canal system would make tampering more difficult and more
important, make the system more manageable. Another risk is that of system
failure before the replacement works are completed. However, the on-going
risk aversion works would minimize the loss of benefits to the existing
irrigated areas in the case of failure. Finally, GOUP may have difficulty in
recruiting adequate staff. The difficulty would be minimized by GOUP engag-
ing the proposed Advisory Planning Group.
Environmental Effects
78.     Construction of drainage facilities and lining of canals in the
project commAnd would reduce areas of stagnant: water which are breeding
grounds for mosquitoes. GOUP would take all mieasures as may be considered
necessary to minimize the risk of malaria and other water related diseases
within the Project Area (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.17).
Consequently, the project would have only beneficial environmental effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.     The draft IDA Agreement between India and the Association, the draft
Project Agreement among the Association and the State of Uttar Pradesh,and
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d),
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
80.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
81.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDAIION
82.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachment
May 3. 1984



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
lNDIA                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
196-'-  19 7O/b  RECENT  /             LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCCME
lb60-        /   RESTIMAT,-          ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KN)
TOTAL                                  3287.6       3287.6       3287.6
AGRICULTURAL                          1760.7        1780.5       1811.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        70.0        100.0        260.0                276.7                       1028.6
ENERGY CONSUNIPION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         114.0         165.0        210.0                398.4                        792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  434850.0    547569.0    690183.0
URBAN POPULATION (1 OF TOTAL)            18.0         19.8         23.7                 21.5                         32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 1001.3
I                        STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   1838.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2140
POPULtATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          132.3         166.6        205.3                161.7                       260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               247.0        307.5         372.7                363.1                      1696.5
POPULATION AGE SITR'CTURE (1)
0-14 YRS                             40.9          42.7         39.7                 36.6                         39.4
15-64 YRS                             54.5          54.2         57.2                 59.2                         57.2
65 AND ABOVE                           4.6          3.1           3.0                  4.2                          3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                  1.8           2.3          2.1                  1.9                          2.3
URBAN                                  2.5           3.3          3.7                  4.0                          3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            43.7          40.0         35.4                 29.3                         31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             21.8         16.7         13.3                 10.9                          9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  2.9           2.7          2.4                  2.0                          2.0
FAMItY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)             64.0       3782.0        6826.0
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..        i2.0          23.0                 48.1                        46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71x100)                           98.0         102.0        107.0                111.4                        125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (1 OF REQUIREMENTS)          96.0          90.0         87.0                 98.1                        114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              54.0         50.0          47.0                 56.7                         57.9
IF WHICH ANLMAL AND PtLSE            17.0         15.0          13.0/c               13.9                         14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RArE             26.2          20.7         17.0                 12.2                          7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)           43.2          48.1         52.2                 59.6                         60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          165.0        139.0         121.2                 96.6                         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    *          17.0         33.0/d               32.9                         37.1
URBAN                                    *         60.0          83. 07               70.8                         54.8
RURAL                                    . .         6.0         20.07d               22.2                         26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(1 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    * *        18.0         20.0/e               18.1                         41.4
DRBAN                                   *-         85.0          87.O/e               72.7                        47.5
RURAL                                    *-          1.0          2.07o                4.7                         33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              4850.0       4890.0        3640.0/f             3506.0                      7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              10980.0/8    8300.0         5380.0/f             4797.9                      2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               2180.0        1650.0       1310.0/d             1100.6                      1047.2
URBAN                                    ..           ..        370.07W              298.4                       651.1
RURAL                                    ..           ..      10410.07o             5941.6                      2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..           ..                   ..                         27.0
NOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   5.2          5.6          52/e 
URBAN                                  5.2           5.6          4.87W;*
RURAL                                   5.2          5.6          5.37                  .*
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  2.6          2.8            ..                   .
URBAN                                  2.6           2.8
RURAL                                  2.6           2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (1 OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RLRAL                                    ..           ..           ..
_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _    _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _    _ _ -_ _ -_ _   _ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
1960/b  ,    170/b  RECENT M/b             LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCcME
1960=   97OLZESTIMAIJ             ASIA& 6PACIFIC             ASIA &PACIFIC
EDXCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      61.0         73.0         76.0/f              96.1                        101.2
MALE                      80.0         90.0         9o.o7T             107.8                        106.0
FEMALE                    40.0         56.0         61.07?              82.9                         97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      20.0         26.0         28.0/f              30.2                        44.9
MALE                      30.0         36.0         37.077              37.3                         50.0
FEIALE                    10.0         15.0         18.071              22.2                         44.6
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)              2.8          1.0          0.7/a                2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               46.0         41.0         43.0/f              34.4                         32.7
SECONDARY                             16.0         21.0           ,,                18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (r )                27.8         33.4         36.0                 53.5                        72.9
CONSOKPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.6          1.1          1.3/f                1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             4.9         21.5         44.4                96.8                        113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.0          0.0          1.7                  9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                10.6         16.2         19.7                16.4                         54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          3.2          4.1          3.7/e                3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          185951.0    219194.0    271179.0
F.MALE (PERCENT)                      30.7         32.5         31.8                33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 74.0         74,0         69.3                69.0                         50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0          11,0        1.3.2                15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.8        .40.0         39.3                42.5                         38.6
MALE                                  57.0         52.4         51.9                54.4                         50.7
FEMALR                               27.3         :26.9        25.9                 29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.1          1.1                 1.0                          1.1
INCOIE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              26.7         26.3/h       22.2/e              16.5                         22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7         48.97h       49.47e              43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.1          6.7/h        7.0Te               6.9                          6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              13.6         17.27h       16.27.              17.5                         15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        132.0               133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..       114.0                111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                       178.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                      164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         40.3                43.8                         2 4. 4
RURAL                                   ..          .,         50.7                 51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Moat Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; /g 1962; /h 1964--65.
May 1983



ANNE I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note    01thouh cte  ate  te  rsontin  sorcesgenrall  jugedthe  oatauthrtet tt an  ee tabe, t_souldulc  he  ote  tlat tey  ay nt h  inernI  toall
coeparbla beause o  the lnA  ofctendadleed   ci toitona ad conepts ned by  ifferet counries  n collctIng  he dat.  ThebataIae, nonttaeles . usfuL  t
describe order. ofmgntoe,Od icon  tr-ends, and                   d carctrle   ris   eaJor differences herona en  ... rIse,
The   refrnrgop          r  11) the Ia.e counrly group of the  .ubj           ...cunty an-2.houtt   rupue              .scea  hlghorausrago  Incaddrbthe  the country groor ot the
eaenge   trenihdaeee   foetdcan   oaohr    ha  aeaa    r   nyueu   In ohoig  bs ag   ofon  Inicto  atI had te  aong the nontr  and.  .
Mf )(hnslds.k.                                                                                      Pooloiin  e  pyIola   -Pfcnato....dd.b.ns.r f.rat..n
so..  d     lSo                                                                    hLdI .  .d~danaPonatio   car I.1reOlng Pron- d. oynlatIon  d.iodad  b                   .-be Io proIcn
tariulausl-tttaseofar..oof eit.draltarr       t use tem ,pTrar ..iy ..p.resn  aernlly    .f~ I aalpandfagteiagudaraI nresa ,  aeeunra                           catheaIn..rerayaod
tot1  crops   psetoras  osrbe eond kinlche    erde nd ortolIeaand            1960,                                                            Idrin  nadmoos
1970 and 196dt.Prlto    e    celo   e      oa.ohn   ndrrl-Pplto    ttl
uran  and  rura   dIda    yterreeto    nhro   optlbd
Aop  ridCurTa  0$       arpr-pIartlar  ar.i;.o    ri  l..   1   curn    abc   rce                           oclieI dl    n    rci Perua  ad  epela  ce    nopta                       on
a     calcuated  byease cooersionmet hodas Ouri  isnb  Olee (190-il taus 1                                      raatli lir ion rtorre .nosptcar.....rbllyhneta. persneotI y   tartte
1960, 1970, and 1991 data,                                                                       byd:  at  eu   n  pyti           snhlhroa rodIgpicplI   ntda
I 70  .d   dt                                                              pu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or  aeno  icudd    mc h'lI - ospitalsb, taddcr  incalude bepultisa
fSItlOcoSidpTIogpta CPITa,-  Ana  apecn   ooaytooor -             oker rial-ae IIlou.dal oanrrs no   prrmacntl  staffd  bya1   'Pftysirla  ihot by  anedoa
ai  goheml  irii try) in   lingad s Worl cool  Aqlnlen.e.          uia                           rcO       letdrnro   eta  fac979tre.   Po  afati 'ica   poryose
1960i  1970,sd18   at                                                                                     brton IoApicult      Y Inctnd    Oa hrl   ...plPge peri loprgla p  andpcorn1
ENEPGY ONPS 01   L00N  STAISIC                                                                              dape   lard:  hoapit- a   rtinioadony  onda-rtotal.d.h.                      n
date,                                                                                                    from-hoapltlefdioldedhbyiIte ruaberbutMbeds
dlfreidtttita of  rba  arsasaydafectroparbifty   f,ata60010
s9o0g contIs;70         i  17,  n a9d1darn                                                            Ontaur-hoi        fhuahd         croo   e   ochld      o             chr  n   oa
J( ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ otl-onitunb  aean  ePan   hernotalylnafrilt                                                                     teaomeoddo auI...  proou
lenelsaaeuaingliforuy 2r-isoty'a    ' birt  lnocroai196gnl1Troan rd''1tr                      o  parnone2~  pa rroomlou dlarh -n         I nndnralrcolod-1   c    oa
U  somt  doln-i  fciltytorii  to10sflclon   an  ful                                                    lesoiac_rt                  Ipra t of dollrgu'l     tool   oba, ndirual-p
planotogperformace.   tac "t-I   tr  It threbalgr   cota  pof  lea,_r                           ona   iotal  dtriddnge ath. elcr..b t yf inlntad          atr
ruolnntos  f scilit'  nd  ef Ilit y       -rnd  forp-bjlitytof papota.                         o   oa,ubn   n   oa   at  00caoIc
Ofe.Itionay  ooooioIatttor'ppitonteel   oca
door  the booth  ratf It enaul  to the dooreh rate,lenud -alocdt(o,age  000000_iht
P.WI.tj.. ~ ~    ~ ~      Obt01C.   ahiane  oly_ .afr frrilIt  caneAn)uh-d nrlddaent  unbot
dallrt bhr ydlcerfI IllofuItnt   aroorit   ot,ofe                                            fr  cyaho  -tt              a    n          fene-ra   tod   unit. anI     rSl
tart ornretioctoosanrriaraaitelf  cecty.   fIrolncparloc_yalgattoycc                                                                       lcnau  pacnatsuferped ins
popolattot slur cue  at iuated on the baiu of tto pro)aclactracuctor-                  y'tcaur pschool-cpa populafira;  toccally lorlodo roil 0cm elaayh-l
iricr   o    the   n pouulonI   h   er            n   o  rate,. ofdcirf                                y'_nr  bu   fodutdfrlifrn                Egta  o    rsarydu e ion for
frrtlllfycatatororiaree                                                                                                         P.n.cutrrot    nlralruntoaP. setaorodlleto
populaton riotailadh poache.                                                                   Srodny uhol-toa,  oa  n  fronir -111 aon                     rural a -nt .o . .... ut
Perso.Os.- nd-ycr   orlotot  er  quoa klonta  (111  rctroaI f                             poolon   rnrul,onntinal   ortra he  tcltn1   tatartboafo
totalarea;1060,197)  ond  060 Ota.                                                    trt I  uooalf of1) to17 yaru 0  utn  cocta pooctroltntao ar
Peeuh.goadrinealtur-llitl-      dnp--ccuboofou--colucalat                                             grrtolrocaddd
Pontlonr   a  tarAnta- )rr,cthc)dr  "       ...  ee   n -. Chlrcc -I..ycuo)  atcuo-ae   ll              tclOeo     tnlc , m   anu,o  othe  croncos               uhn         ndur -ut    idpd-
hIyaraoo  rticed) y yardro-doc..r.... acfetoprufnd-ea                                          ctl'otudr,       utntt ooeooor   loicciot
pplto;lOb)  1970,. en.lfIdta                                                                  cpi-oJtc   atII-pcaP. ._ecnd ....                            aoeos  o dedi
yea  poolatonfor105-01  151-7,   nd                   II       o lO_-f.                          ooOo IllO       - toea.d oa   .lig   e, ,
year yopnlttOon;  1000a., 1070,ind 160fduto,lOhOOTIltO
linde Aott her (car  houcanl -Annar    datoye    Thenut  ofadya                                og ptCr Ircar thona ln pouation)a   - Gfuae_gnr onto c aordo  noto
liusOrdtto    Ifot-nee     Po   nhero  dugtertostll    rtmpolroy  etl
fertP~Iitycota;u                thet fia-u   a 2etuar   endInhg rto lofI loll, and                   bcncooorto   publi   rrr                  'r tInt  of rorall,'n.anot
ptegra.ti   rTn rrctlIorthdu  branY thano...uIner                                                                               an        ln lorglh- 0    f Pocri.n . fo  broad- ot
lteo iol   rduct..nt ytraloale' 1h -lJl-ek l ..llr  cftt--t un o                                  I  cltrnlnton ,.tcn  ,ntono-d r.   lcooooa,yo
onnoal'rodnoiotoollfodce dlro              Ptdcltoldurd d                                          redlylftyrer trufunluar.
frooloocirdryacels    onoltarorprarpodl.g                                                       irocoulOtccacecruilanda-aoO otenern
dana.                                                                                              Loch  tO -r  -Chlra  (-L ar)
da' -nllalbupleonru    optcponto,lrrolo                                                         1poflatlon  of allo noo.  0r flut _cs to cur 00  cnfroona
roynre,andohegra  n aonk   Sa  royl ta1tt60o  aIma  find, urrdn,                               cooputYiodlt; -lotd, 1971 an  1961 Sr data.'I   "'h  '
Puniisuedt   odpoonig   n  losoet in                        1 dlotbtlaon.                              Ofue    ecot      tu          laborforc dnep ccabtle of lotal laborforce
Cr.d iothnyondr helhroadct    tcnorta                    pttoI        oy ariht,                             l-hing  00 prrcaotgl     ftoa   uorfrc1  01   97 oa96   aa
ahoofodrcl190 1971-h,100ad60 data,                                                              anPtrtccl  ',onc  nd               nay-rdooe fooallao  frc;160
4                      Pet rarlta toyplo of t   ohIol  (praspe  dul-thrtoteitcootent- ot prc tatit...1970 nod..1.61 Onto.
nrd et.upy  of fond p- d..y.  .oAo.         fo  fn   sOfoo   0uor                                    acticLyo,TlOm      arIrceoI-ttlHnl,ndcal-antIalno
1u96e rot 9f0,o afnc   d II 98us  abni   e  ni    prort,    on                                  100  100   t   91dt,Iro   c  bod0    10priiulnt
Per ranita prnnlc onprin frou  nlcal and rulurPcutatnuoy'rlr    fifoo                 ott -totll laborrfoctr
date.                                                                                              itun  110.0..0.          ..Ipt
Chl Itr   -1   ro   ae(ar-bnud                 - Aono-l drth   Pb0thomn,   nyt tg of                           Pt-ut -cos  (ot    in tout and(thoundnd.       rcri I Id t     ricoa
sp  groat  -0yartohlrootnIn til  -gopr-p  fornol   dolpngpret rLri,                                      - - Ictofat  I tcct ,  otet1prrr   nod  -p-ratl 40                         - ptont
toant prir   dtadri,    t  fronU...    tulen   1060, 1971 and 1061fdrtobroadnu.ho..
080110                                                                                 rodinyf nAnItI Itluth~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_7"o
730Lnetho  a   It,  yoo -doue  nhrofyrnro   lrtolt0                                               ieflico    utiun   naooyaycoiaoouucoo  pocyboe   n
at  Irh;100,100  nd101  oo,                                                                 toldhrInorrrodolt  onodrulocot oo
Somber I0F  peol   ttl   ra,  n   oa)at   eaoal   tretu  te.affor-obl
frmaom    c   acnedrdattpooi onoa-lahdr uccoar o  toot                                            ttiar   r~apooithlobrlt   ooo  Ios    ar    ocnl-po
toose.  lotraiarraarenonoblah leca  onbcid                                                    Ci ha   h  hocif   nand turn    A-Prcenc fpo oto   (or  at .an  rual  on  h afn 'aofit
dreattoctaDtpaa                 yrcr96o otlaio          6-toa, urban, cod 1
Pa   o-Snrofepr l)loooo111"    ilI  l,orhaof  nrocai,l-) -eCnedt-oocr..
oaf lrludaihr clletton  an  dtoytul,  ttO  o  elttut oloruor , offlonotrurdtodd    110 doIrio
prloando.nod.o.alior inIt....ntnnn d                                                                                                                  ray  1003



fpa  4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVEL0PINT DATA
GV  PEA CAPITA 1N 191i1 USS260  *|
GROSSDOMESTIC PRODUCTIN 1982/8  b                                               A AL RATE OF GROWTH (2. Constant Prices) c/
5/a           6    1960/69            196  /66-1969170  1970171-1974/175  1975/76-1979/ LO
GDP akt Market Prices                  170,74   100.0                       3.7                 '1.6               3.7                2.9                4.1
Grogs  Domestic Investment              41.99    24,6
Gross National Saving                   38.12    22.3
Current Account Balaince                 3.87   - 2.3
OUTIPUT. LABOI( FORCE ANDf PRODUCTrIVITY IN 1981
a                                     Labor Force           V.A. Per Worker
Agriculture                             51.7                   33.1         172,7      70.6       299          so
Indutery                               35.2                    23.9          31.6      12.9      1114        185
Servios                              I 60.6                    4140          40.3      16.5      1304        249
t  'Average                                                     7 i   00           o W           903 
G tJ NT FIiNANCE
General Government  a_                                  Central Goverment
Rs. Bln.              % of GDP                     RP.. Bln.              2 of GDP
92/83        1982/83    1978/7-1982/83              T) 82/83     1982/83      1978/79-1982/83
Current Receipts                         333.34       20.3             19.5                  175.61        10.7            10.5
Current Expenditures                     340.09       20.7             19.0                  188.59        11.5            10.8
current Surplus/Deficit                -  6.75       - 0.4              0.5                - 12.98        - 0.8          - 0.4
Capital Expenditures f/                  131.28        8.0             8.1                    95.13         5.8             5.7
External Assistance (net) d/              19.30        1,2              1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                1970/71  1975/76  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  February 1983  February 1984
(WRaBillion outstandiag at and of period)
Money and Quasi Money                    109.8    224.8    329.1    401.1    472,3    55.55    624.9    723.8               711.7           845.7
Bsank Credit to Government (net)          54.6    106.3    137.3    159.3    200.1    257.2    309.1    352,4               353,5           406.6
Bank Credit to Conmercial Sector          64.6    156.2    212.2    255.3    310.1    363.5    430.5    504.5               487.7           576.4
(Percentage or Index Numbere)                                 Apr-Feb 1982/83  Apr-Feb 1983/84
Money and Quasi Money as a I
of GDP                                  27.3     30.3      36.7      41.1      44.1      43.6      42.0      44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71   100)                       100.0    173.0    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.4    288.6               288.1                 314.68
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                      7.7      -1.1       5.2       -        17.1      18.2       9.4       2.6          2.3                  9,3
Bank Credit to Governsment (net)          15,0      22.7      16.3      16.0      25.6      28.5      20.2      14.0         21 0 J/              18.9 hi
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector           19.4      22.7      12.6      20.2      21.5      17.2      18.4      17.2         15.5 J/              17.9 b
*/  The per capita GNP estimte is at mrket prices, using World Bank Atlas methodology, base period 1979-1981,
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the gaverage exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estimtes. Contral Statistical Organizstion
c|  Computad from trend line of GhP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year And owe obstrvation aftar lest year of
listed period.
d/  World bank estimstes of not disbursemnt  of concessional aid end IBRD.
/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out
f| All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
/   Percentage change from end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
h/  Percentage change fro& end-Mrch 1983 to end-February 1984.
i/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from 1981 Census. Excludes date for Asem.



A       I
Pegs 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                        1980/81   1981/82   1982/83±' 1983/841'            INXABDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1982/83) g/
(US$ Mln.)                                                                                                                     US5 Kin.       %
Exports of Goods o/                         8.504      8,519    &a0o1        8,466             Engineering Goods r/               980        12
Imports of Goods j/                       -16,204   -15,500   -14,249   -14,412                Tea                                455         6
Trade Balance                             - 7.700   - 6.981   - 6,248   - 5.946                Ges                                779         9
NFS (net)                                   1,365        974        940        856             Clothing                           573         7
Leather and Leather Products    480            6
Resource Balance                          - 6,335   - 6,007   - 5,308        5,090             Jute  alanufactures                333         4
Iron Ore                          380         5
Interest Income (net) k/                      600        286   -   415   -   648               Cotton Textiles                    328         4
Net Transfers 1/                            2,771      2,318      1,849      1,790             Sugar                               86         1
Others                          3,849        46
Balance on Current Account                - 2,964   - 3,403   - 3,874   - 3,948
Official Loans & Grants                                                                        Total                            8,243       100
Gross Disbursements                         2,631      2,570      3,086      3,441             EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1983
Amortization                              -   700   -   674   -   701   -   783
LS$ billion
Transaction with IMF (net)                  1.035        690      1,980      1,295             Outstanding and Disbursed                     19.6
All Other Items o/                        -   367   - 1,581          12        531             Undisbursed                                   11.1
Outstanding including Indistursed            30.7
Increase in Reserves (-)                      345      2,398   -   503   -   536
Gross Reserves (end year) pl                6,859      4,461      4,964      5,500             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982/83 1/  n/         10.1 per cent
Net Reserves (end year) ml                  6,532      3,497      2,088      1,449
IBRD/IDA LEDING, MARCH 31, 1984 I/
Fuel and Related Materials
US$ million
Imports (Petroleum) 3/                      6.672      5,590      4,613      3.395                                                    IBRD      IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed              1,826      7,924
Undisbursed                            2,081      4,331
Outstanding including Undisbursed   3,907    12,255
RATE OF EXCRANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Rs 7.50
RS 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-March 1983                  US$1.00 - Rs 10.0301
Rs 1.00 - US$0.0997
Spot Rate end-March 1984                  US$1.00 - Rs 10.7181
Rs 1.00 - US$0.0933
it  Estimated
k/  Figures given cover all investOent income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to IMF, and major receipts is
interest eariled on foreign assets.
1/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which ie included within official loans and grantm, snd
non-resident deposits which are included within all other items.
a/ Exclude net use of IMF credit.
n/ Anortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of total current receipts.
o/ Includes exchange rate adjustments to the valuation of reserves and financing of imbalances in rupee trade.
i/ Excluding gold.
g/ Net of crude petroleum exports.
r/  Including iron and steel.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 15183)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
48 Loans/                                               1,688.0          -
83 Credits fully disbursed                                  -        4,759.0            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -           30.0          11.56
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAI)                   -           83.0           6.83
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -           27.7           6.30
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -           16.4          -0.11
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -          105.0           3.12
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -          150.0           3.95
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development          -           18.0           3.25
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0          -            44.92
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0                       15.89
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0          -             4.77
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -           30.0          13.37
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -           20.0           3.30
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -          150.0           7.45
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -            12.0          10.29
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0          -             4.08
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                -           10.0           0.49
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation              -           23.0           6.99
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -            8.0           3.96
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                 -           70.0           4.05
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5          -             2.49
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage               -          107.0          61.57
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II          -           87.0           6.51
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -            8.0            5.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0          -             2.54
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0          -             8.38
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                   -          117.6          52.30
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                    -          200.0          47.64
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -           14.0          11.01
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                     -           85.0          19.30
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               -           17.5           9.98
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -           16.0           8.88
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VI]I              120.0          -            22.27
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                         -          150.0          76.70
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -          196.0         156.24
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -          190.0          48.31
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -           38.0           8.48
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research         -           27.0          18.96
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -              25.0          7.58



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/     Undiisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -           30.0           5.51
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0          -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               -         200.0          41.57
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -          129.0          51.80
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply               -           48.0          15.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II         -         175.0           21.96
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -           23.0           8.05
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II              -         210.0           82.85
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -           37.0          15.27
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -          20.0          17.90
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -          46.0          36.41
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -           32.0         23.97
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -         175.0         121.65
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -          22.0          18.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -         300.0         213.36
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -           10.0           8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -           56.0         23.21
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -           54.0         41.38
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -              80.0          61.54
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0         -            10.61
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0         -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -         225.0         ].70.60
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0          -            23.46
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0            -              7.41
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -          35.0          23.58
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -          83.0           72.77
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -           42.0         29.04
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -         140.0          L28.41
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -         314.0         176.21
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -          54.0          53.45
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -         400.0         281.64
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -          23.0          20.24
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -          28.0          23.88
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0          35.73
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -          125.0         106.34
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II         -         400.0         367.32
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0         199.76
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0         -             61.58
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -          29.0          25.41
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -          25.0          21.68
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0          -          104.43
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0          -          300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                              190.0         -           121.32
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -               6.0           5.50
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization           200.0         -           171.60
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III            304.5         -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    20.3          -            20.00



ANNEX LI
Page 'of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursedl 2/
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     -           60.0          45.33
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                   -           72.0          71.39
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0           31.06
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                 -            -
Irrigation II                       -           31.0           26.94
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation                -          127.0         121.37
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration         165.5          -           158.92
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0           -           197.04
.99-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0          197.01
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development        222.3          -           219.01
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                  -          150.0         143.60
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II               -          101.0         101.00
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power            -          170.0         170.00
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power          156.4          -           156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III*        -          147.0         147.00
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization          -           32.0          32.00
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         22.7          -            22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission*          250.7          -           250.70
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management        46.2          -            46.08
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban*                 24.1          -            24,10
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II*                  -          105.0         105.00
Total                                     5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repaid                               136.1
Total now outstanding                     3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/         3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           2,100.45    4,124.24
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                      Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8         -        0.8
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.2      8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagariuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -      28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8        -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.7         -      15.7
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.3         -        ,B.3
1984             The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        4.2         -        4.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   Sold                           53.0        3.4     56.4
Repaid                        30.1         -       30.1
Cancelled                     16.1        1.4      17.5
Now Held                     112.4        7.3    119.7
Undisbursed                   82.9         -       82.9



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About four years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of IJttar Pradesh (GOUP).
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and date
of first mission to consider the project
August 1979; September 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 5, 1984.
(e) Date of compLetion of negotiations
April 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 1984.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
GOUP would:
(a) (i) maintain WALMI headed by a Director with suitable
qualifications and experience and (ii) draw up a training
program and start training by March 31, 1986; (para 59);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) by December 31, 1984 retain consultants to provide
general assistance to the Irrigation Department (para 61);
(c) (i) submit a proposal for establishing a water charge
system by December 31, 1985 (para 68); and (ii) furnish a
timetable for applying a new water charge system and carry
out the new water charge system in accordance with that
timetable (para 68);
(d) continue to set water charges which ensure revenue covers
operation and maintenance costs and a reasonable portion of
investment cost of new or modernized irrigation schemes
(para 68).



Annex IV
INDIA
UPPER GANGA IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROCUREMENT METHODS a/
Not          Total
Project Element                   ICB            LCB           Other       Eligible        Cost
----------------------------(US$M)------------------------------
1. Works
a. Main Canal                86.3 (56.3)  11.2  (5.0)   9.9  (6.4)         -   -   107.4  (67.7)
b. Distributary
Modernization             -      -    18.5 (11.6)   3.3  (2.1)         -   -    21.8  (13.7)
Watercouse
Modernization             -      -      4.0  (2.5)   4.7  (3.0)        -   -      8.7   (5.5)
d. Drainage Improvements    -        -      5.0  (3.1)   2.3  (1.4)        -   -       7.3   (4.5)
e. Hydel Station
(Civil works)             -      -      3.8  (2.4)    -       -        -   -      3.8   (2.4)
f. Completed Augmentation
Tubewells (ATWs)          -      -       -     -      0.4  (0.3)       -   -      0.4   (0.3)
g. Residential Buildings
for ID Staff              -      -    10.8  (7.5)    -        -        -   -    10.8   (7.5)
h. Canal Communication
System                    -      -      0.3  (0.3)    -       -  ,         -      0.3   (0.3)
i. WALMI                     0.3  (0.3)   3.0  (3.0)   1.3  (0.8)          -   -      4.6   (4.1)
*. Technical Services        0.5  (0.5)   0.8  (0.8)   0.8  (0.8)          -   -      2.1   (2.1)
k. Engineering and
Administration            -      -       -      -      -      -      29.7  -    29.7       -
1. Land Acquistion             -     -       -      -       -     -      19.7  -    19.7       -
Sub Total         87.1 (57.1)  57.4 (36.2)  22.7 (14.8)   49.4  -   216.6 (108.1)
2. Goods
a. Equipment, Vehicles
and Materials             9.4  (9.4)   1.9  (1.9)   1.2  (1.2)          -   -    12.5  (12.5)
b. Hydel Equipment              -     -       -      -      1.4  (1.4)      -   -       1.4   (1.4)
c. ATW Equipment                -     -       -      -      0.8  (0.6)      -   -       0.8   (0.6)
Sub Total           9.4  (9.4)   1.9  (1.9)   3.4  (3.2)         -   -    14.7  (14.5)
Total              96.4 (64.1)  59.3 (40.0)  26.6 (18.5)   49.3  -   231.3 (122.6) b/
Note: a/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts eligible for financing under the IDA Credit.
b/ Excluding US$2.4 M which is unallocated to specific works.



IBRD 17646R
r  b'  _A.                                        sr                                     J'o704       .J     r B0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C H I N A  -
5            Tt S map ~71    I- bee D p ft erh  old 3{reWrdbhk   h nenPo           PAKISTANy                           E ¢h. BHTA0N
,HIMACHAL  PRA OFSH                                    -   s{.                                                                                h =tdssgsittbGp6h0tSad't
If                                                                                                               b     1 BANGLAKDESt
C? - P  UTTAR KASHI  t  <  ,                  ~~~~~~~~                   ~         ~       ~~C  H  I N  A  -2t-tI N D I A           2-
A UT TA R   KASH rI                                                                                                            X      Y r.O
>  r   \  S       '     ~~~CHAMOLI            --Aaot                                                                                  -7/1r/
-   fz7,ERA -DU,   TEHRI GARHWAL                         \S                                                                          
HMA RYA NA        a3i                       l      °ohwl         p                                                             :\                    (
-30 ,aau                                                          PITHORAGARH {\jISR AW
K t ffi ~~~~~~~GARHWAL -'    ,t
,t SAHARANPIJR                                                        J
LFK   >t  gs? <                X   ~~~ALMORA               r
< bIUZAFFARNA¢AR tdJl3l \ Nstl~N  TM 0                                              UPPER     GANGA   IRRIGATION]
MEE rU                31NAR0N t-AL                                                     MODERNIZATION    PROJEC-r
CI IMetj<    PROJECT  AREA
t  GHAZIA3AD          <   : 9~I   RAMPUR /A       
DEL*A    GHAZIABA.                                            t                                                                         PROJECT AREt.
'    2  \& r ~~~~~~~~~~}   M   \             o~~~~~~PI,lt                                                              D STRCT 'E£D_UJARTLPS
sJ !- tooBudzndshswt -g < < BAREILLY~~~~~ PILIBHIT                   4  AV                                           S1    5CAP T ...-.. 
B ULANtDSHAHR   j t         g9                           r     t                 t3saINLHJWY
HA,RYAN         \\j  8 9\                                        (                                                                      3ROAD GA-(GL RIILR0125
284 </ \ sV <m ~~BUDAUN \( ,   <R;R
Xy  <    XAi2gar,  t wd.      RJdaL q   << 0                KHERI\                                                     zISTPICT BO1UNDARISF
AMTHR                 ETAH       \    SIHAHIJAH      AN PU9                     :
7 %. A > ' ~~~~~~~HARDOI.  )'/\'~
r_  ASRA  As  '- -e'\ l - < / - GONDA ' ' ' TAPU
fr   ~~~~~@  \n    <  ~~~~~~~ X~FARRUKAHABAD,                         BARA\     B3 ANK[  .                 BASTI      GORAKHRPUF! 
=;>< \> '2' L~~~~~~U)CN'NAO                                                                        DEORIA V
|  MAD//tA  PRADESH  <4                                  <                                  ;                          -,   \    X<tT4.AH  x  b, 
MAHY     PROADESHl               'V       MA/,Y PRDE's  
26'j    LAITU   SRtANU                                                                                                                                J   IRAU
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~AC AZAGAR






