Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,;  A/  3   / ZP7   P#-              Report No. P-5 195-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$200 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
November 30, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          Philippine Peso (P)
US$1.00           =   21.5 (as of July, 1989)
P 100                  100 centavos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOI       -        Board of Investments
CODA      -        Committee on Official Development Assistance
DOD       -        Disbursed and Outstanding Debt
ERL       -        Economic Recovery Loan
GDP       -        Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -        Gross National Product
ICOR      -        Incremental Capital-Output Ratio
LIBOR     -        London Interbank Offered Rate
MLT       -        Medium and Long Term
MTPAP     -        Medium Term Public Assistance Program
MTPIP     -        Medium Term Public Investment Program
O&M       -        Operations and Maintenance Expenditures
OPEC      -        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
SAL       -        Structural Adjustment Loan
XGS       -        Exports of Goods and Services



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Loan and Pro7ect Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of the Philippines
Amount:                    US$200 million
Terms:                     20 year term, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Description:               The proposed loan is a stand-alone operation to
finance, together with funds from the IMF and
certain bilateral sources, the debt buyback portion
of the Government's 1989-90 commercial bank
financing and debt reduction package. The package
provides an exit vehicle for low exposure com-
mercial banks at a sizeable discount, while
encouraging new flows from those banks with a long-
term interest in the Philippines. The financial
package is an integral part of the Government's
medium-term program, which focusses on strengthened
macroeconomic performance, the adequacy ar,d
efficiency of investment, and improved mnuintenance
of public assets. Conditionality is designed to
help achieve these objectives and is a product of a
clear Bank strategy and reflective of close coor-
dination with the IMF.
Benefits:                  The debt buyback portion of the financing package
permits the Philippines to retire $1.3 billion of
long-term debt at a 50Z discount through an opera-
tion with an estimated economic rate of return of
23Z; however, its total benefit must be seer. in
light of the improved environment which the
financing package, along with macroeconomic
strengthening and investment efficiency gains, will
help bring about. Debt reduction is a critical
step in the Philippine medium-term strategy of sus-
taining growth by rebuilding confidence, attracting
new investment, creating a more positive domestic
environment in which to continue servicing its
debt, and establishing a path towards full resump-
tion of voluntary lending.
Risks:                     The primary risk associated with the loan is that
the anticipated improvements in investment ef-
ficiency do not materialize, either because the
macroeconomic environment deteriorates or because
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank &uthorization.



- ii -
the proposed measures are ineffective in raising
the quality of investments. The operation seeks to
minimize those risks by including specific macro-
economic conditions for tranche releases and
tailoring the proposed measures to improve the
quality of investment to specific difficulties
which have emerged in recent years. Risks are also
reduced by Government's strong commitmer., to those
actions required.
Estimated Disbursements:  The proposed loan would be disbursed in two
tranches, of $150 million and $50 million, respec-
tively; the first tranche would be available upon
effectiveness of the loan and the second tranche
would be released upon completion of agreed
actions, and is expected by late 1990.
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:           None.
MUap:                      None.



PHILIPPINES
DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary  .            . . . .            . .       i
PART I - THE ECONOMY   . . . . . . . .      . . .   . .  . .        1
Origins of the Debt Problem  . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stabilization and Adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3
The Government's Medium Term Program . . . . . . . . .         6
Growth Prospects and Financing Needs . . . . . . . . .         6
Official Sources ....  .      .  .  .  .    . . . . . . . . .    .  9
PART II - THE COMMERCIAL BANK FINANCING PACKAGE . . . . . .        10
Structure of Commercial Bank Debt  . . . . . . . . . .        10
Considerations that Shaped the Financing Package . . .        10
Benefits of the Financing Package for the Philippines         12
PART III - BANK STRATEGY AND OPERATIONAL PLANS  . . . . . .        14
Bank Strategy  .                              . ... .  .      14
Proposed Bank Support      . ... .15
Deliaeation of the Set-Aside   .      .. .  . . .             15
The Choice of Vehicle  . . .... . ..16
Conditionality . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       16
Macroeconomic Policies.       .. . . . ....                   17
Public Investment ........*. .17
Operation and Maintenance of Public Investment . . . .        19
Private Investment ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...  20
Disbursement ....                         .     .  .  .  .   .  21
Justification for Bank Support . . .     ....                 21
Risks  ....  .  .     .    . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . .  .   .  22
PART IV -COORDINATION WITH THE IMP .  ....   ...... .              23
PART V -RECOMMENDATIONS  ... .  .      .  .    .. ...  .  .  .  .   .  23
ANNEXES
Annex   I  -  Letter of Development Policy  . . . . . . . .        24
Annex  II  -  Policy Matrix  .....   ......   . .32
Annex III - Status of Bank Group Operations in the
Philippines ..  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  35
Annex  IV -  Economic Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . .         37



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $200 million to
support a debt buyback operation of its Debt Management Program. The loan
would have a te.,m of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
I. THE E O)NOMY
1.       The Philippines has emerged from a period of stitbilization and
adjustment with two years of strong growth. Indeed, its performance among the
group of Highly Indebted Countries has been strong. Growth in GNP has
averaged about 62 p.a. and inflation has been kept in check. Accompanying
improvements in output have been major policy advances in trade
liberalization, financial reform. privatization of public institutions, tax
reform and generally responsible short term economic management.
Nevertheless, the Philippines continues to be burdened by a high level of
external debt, totalling US$29 billion or about 75? of GNP.
Origins of the Debt Problem
2.       While the Philippines experienced relatively rapid growth during the
1970s (about 6.52 per annum), the accumulation of various structural problems
during the 1980s severely reduced overall economic performance and growth.
The energy crisis of 1979-80 put a severe strain on the balance of payments,
and the Government attempted to counter this problem with a substantial energy
investment program financed from foreign borrowings. Other external events,
including rising interest rates and declining commodity prices, also added to
the country's balance of payments problems. At the same time, distortions in
trade incentive. -and commodity prices had resulted in an inefficient pattern
of investment. 2ublic sector financial intermediaries came under increas'ng
political pressure to make ill-advised loans in the private sector. Many
investments undertaken by the public sector also proved to be unecownic.  The
exchange rate was not adjusted to reflect changes in relative prices, and the
overvalued exchange rate was financed by a reliance on relatively short-term
commercial borrowings on variable rates, which commercial banks were then
making available in an attempt to recycle the OPEC surpluses.



- 2 -
Table 1: SELECTED MACRO-ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Units  75-79  1980  1982  1984  1986  1987  1988
GDP growth rate          X      6.5    5.3   2.9  -6.1   1.4   4.7   6.4
Investment growth        X      9.5    4.3  -3.3 -43.2  -9.0  27.9  25.9
Inflatior.               X      9.9   18.2  10.2  50.3   0.8   3.8   8.8
Investment/GDP           X     30.3   28.7  26.6  15.1  11.1  13.8  15.7
Current Acct/GDP         2     -4.6   -4.9  -8.0  -3.9   3.2  -1.4  -1.0
Public Def/GDP           2      n.a.   1.3   4.&   1.8   4.9   2.8   2.8
External Debt            $B     8.8   17.4  24.2  24.7  28.3  30.1  29.4
External Debt/GDP        X      n.a.  49    61    76    92    87    75
Debt Service/XGS         S      n.a.  27    42    33    34    39    33
3.       All of these factors combined to produce an untenable situation.
Total external debt, which was already high in the late 1970s, rose rapidly
from about $13 billion in 1979 to $24.3 billion (70Z of GNP) in 1983. Interest
payments rose from $626 million to about $2.0 billion in the same period, or
to a level equal to 40Z of commodity exports. While investment rates remained
high during this period, investment efficiency declined, and overall growth
rates fell (see Table 1), while the current account deficit grew larger.
Because of the economy's poor performance, and continued adverse external
conditions including declining export prices for many Philippine exports,
export earnings did not keep pace with rising debt service demands. The
problem came to a head in 1983, when a growing crisis among the Latin American
high debt countries, combined with political events in the Philippines, caused
commercial banks to cut short-term credit lines to the Philippines. The
Government was forced to request a moratorium on principal payments and to
begin discussions with the IMF on a stabilization program. At the time of the
crisis, the total external debt totaled $24.3 billion, of which close to $10
billion was short-term (see Table 2). Of the total debt approximately $15
billion was owed to commercial banks.



- 3 -
Table 2: STRUCTURE OF EXTERNAL DEBT BY CREDITOR
(S millions)
1983           1986              1988
Public & Publicly Guar. LT           10,466          19,285           23,475
Official Creditors                  4,774           8,154           10,956
Multilateral                      2,834           4,188            4,775
of which IBRD                   2,047           3,017            3,408
of which IDA                       61              92              102
Bilateral                         1,341           3,966            6,181
Private Creditors                     5,691          11,131           12,518
Suppliers                             408           1,144              873
Commercial Bank                     4,033           8,443           10,348
Other Private                       1,250           1,543            1,297
Private Non-Guar. LT                  3,125           2,294            1,093
Total Long-Term DOD                  13,591          21,579           24,467
IMF Credit                            1,095           1,266            1,093
Short-Term Debt                       9,608           5,486            3,888
Total inc. IMF & Net ST              24,294          28,331           29,448
Stabilization and Adjustment
4.      Since 1983, and particularly since the change in Government in 1986, a
major effort has been made to remove past distortions and put the economy back
on the path of efficient growth. Stabilization programs, supported by IMF
Standby Agreements, reduced public sector and balance of payments deficits,
reduced inflation, and restored the exchange rate to an equilibrium level.
The Government's stabilization efforts have been supported by a series of debt
reschedulings by both the official and private creditors. Two Paris Club
reschedulings (1984 and 1986) provided about $1.2 billion in debt relief, for
two eighteen month periods, including a substantial rescheduling of interest.
An additional Paris Club agreement in May 1989 provides for rescheduling of
1002 principal, and interest, falling due over the next two years. Two
agreements with the commercial banks (1985 and 1987) were concluded. The
first, covered arrears from 1983 and amortization payments due in 1985 and
1986. It also provided for $925 million of new money from the banks and a $3
billion trade facility. The second agreement provided for debt relief of $9.3
billion (principal) over a six year period (1987-92), a renewal of the trade
facility, and a slight improvement in the terms of the 1985 rescheduling.
These agreements had the effect of temporarily smoothing the debt service
schedule by postponing most principal repayments during the period, while the
Philippines continued to meet interest obligations, including market-based
interest charges on rescheduled debt. For 1988, for instance, total debt
payments were reduced by $3.5 billion from original schedules, and the total
service ratio was reduced from 542 before rescheduling to 30Z after.



5.       Supported by a series of policy-based loans from the Bank (see
Table 3), as well as assistance from the Fund, the Government has undertaken
major reforms designed to restructure the productive side of the economy,
reduce the level of government intervention in the economy, increase private
sector participation, and enhance incentives for exports and production. The
major actions under this program include:
Tax Reform. The tax system has been adjusted to eliminate distortions
caused by sales and excise taxes, and replace them by a value added tax,
reduce taxation on the poor, improve collection and administrative
efficiency, and lower marginal tax rates at the highest levels.
Public Financial Institutions.   The two major public financial
institutions, which had become a serious drain on the budget, have been
restructured, reduced in scope, and put on a sound financial footing; the
privatization of one of these banks has also begun. Non-performing
accounts of these banks have been taken over by a government disposal
agency; about one-third of these have already been sold to the private
sector. Furthermore, four of the six private banks acquired by the
public sector have been wholly or partly sold to the private sector.
Public Corporations. A reform program has been implemented in order to
privatize or close public corporations not providing essential services,
and to improve the financial performance of those that remain in the
public sector; of 257 public corporations, 205 will be either privatized
or closed.
Trade Reform. A major reform of the tariff system had been implemented
in the early 1980s as part of SAL-I; this has been supplemented in recent
years by a program for the removal of quantitative import restrictions.
This program has reduced the number of restricted imports from 401 to
less than 1O and under the IMF's EFF, a program for further
liberalization has been agreed for the bulk of the remaining items.
Financial Sector Reforms. The Government is implementing a program
designed to improve supervision and regulation of the private financial
system, and reduce intermediation costs through improved depositor
protection, reduced barriers to entry and branching, reduced taxation of
bank services, and improved legal framework for financial contracts.
Public Expenditures. A major refocusing of public investment has taken
place, reducing the size of the program and reorienting expenditures to
essential infrastructure; in addition, operating and maintenance
expenditures have been increased, in order to insure that existing
capital is maintained and that essential social services are preserved.
Agriculture. Government restrictions and price controls on agricultural
outputs and inputs have been eliminated, ine-luding government sponsored
monopolies of the sugar and coconut trade, and government controls on
fertilizer imports. In addition, an ambitious program of land reform has
been started.



Table 3: WORLD BANK ADJUSTMENT LENDING SINCE 1983
Loan               Date      Amount    Policy Focus
($ m)
SAL-I              1980         200     Tariff reform. begin removal of
quantitative restrictions on imports,
improve export promotion.
SAL-II             1983         302     Restructure of investment incentives,
reduced sales and excise taxes on
imports.
Agricultural       1984         150     Removal of price and other controls on
Inputs                                  agricultural outputs and inputs and the
break up of the Sugar and Coconut
monopolies.
Economic           1986         300     Reforms of public financial
Recovery Loan                           institutions, trade restrictions,
public investment, and tax system.
Reform Program    1987          200     Restructured controls on public
for Government                          corporations, implemented program
Corporations                            of privatization and closure for over
200 corporations.
Financial Sector  1989          300     Reformed Central Bank regulation and
control of private banks, improved
legal system, competition among banks,
depositor protection, interest rates.
6.       These reforms have had their expected effect on improving the
performance of the economy. GDP growth was 4.72 in 1987 and 6.4Z in 1988.
The balance of payments current account deficit was significantly reduced as a
percentage of GNP and the public sector deficit has averaged less than 3Z.
Inflation, which reached a peak of 502 in 1984, was held to less than 1O per
year. Total investment remained low, at about 18Z of GNP, reflecting the
gradual absorption of excess capacity. The sustainability of the growth
effort, however, will necessitate raising the investment level, both in the
private and public sectors. While foreign resource inflows, both official and
private, will continue to play an important role, the magnitude of these
investment requirements will necessitate an increasing reliance on domestic
resource mobilization efforts. For this reason, the Government attaches high
priority to efforts to reform the domestic financial system, improve tax
collections in the public sector, and limit the negative net resource
transfers caused by the debt burden.



- 6-
The Government's Medium Term Program
7.       Despite recent progress, the Philippine economy remains encumbered by
many problems that limit the sustainability and depth of the recovery effort,
and prevent the economy from reaching its full potential. In conjunction with
the recent Consultative Group meeting (Tokyo, July, 1989), the Government
restated its program and development objectives. This document, "The
Philippine Agenda for Sustained Growth and Development", highlights the need
to increase the overall efficiency of the economy, in agriculture, industry
and the public sector, while ensuring that the benefits from growth are
distributed more equitably within the population, and between regions. The
main focus of Government efforts in the future will be directed at:
(a) extending reforms which enhance and promote private investment,
including further deregulation, improved incentives for investors,
and improvements in financial sector;
(b) improving efficiency in the public sector, both in terms of raising
revenues and improving tax collection, and improving its capacity to
provide essential infrastructure and services;
(c) addressing in a meaningful way the deep-seated problems of poverty,
population growth and unemployment, including the development of
expanded programs in the social sectors, greater attention to natural
resource management, and an effective program of land reform;
(d) designing programs to increase production efficiency while limiting
environmental degradation in the productive sectors, particularly
agriculture, both to serve as a basis for exports and for increased
employment; and
(e) finding ways to alleviate the impact of the debt burden on the
economy, and restoring the country's creditworthiness.
Growth Prospects and Financing Needs
8.       The Government's overall goal, as set forth in its Updated Philippine
Development Plan, sets as a target a growth of output of 6.5Z per year for the
period 1989-92. This growth rate, which equals the rate achieved in the late
1970s, would only be sufficient to restore per capita income to its 1982 level
by the end of the Plan period. A growth rate of this magnitude would require
an increase in the rate of investment to about 24Z of GDP, in order to rebuild
the depleted capital stock, both in terms of public sector infrastructure and
in the private sector (see Table 4, below). This rate of GDP growth is based
on a substantial increase in investment efficiency over the past. The overall
gross ICOR of 3.7 in the projection is lower than that achieved during the
1970s, when growth also averaged 6.5?, and the ICOR was 4.8. Nevertheless,
this is considered reasonable in light of the considerable liberalizat.Lon of
trade and factor markets since that time.



- 7 -
Table 4:  PHILIPPINES KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
(percent)
1989    1990  1991-1994  1995-1998
(target)
GDP Growth Rate                      6.5     6.5       6.5       6.5
Consumption/Capita Growth Rate       0.6     3.8       4.0       4.0
Gross Investment/GDP                22.1    24.3      24.3      24.4
Domestic Savings/GDP                19.7    21.5      21.7      21.9
Current Account/GDP                 -2.8    -2.7      -2.7      -2.0
Export Growth Rate                  10.8    10.3       9.9      10.2
Import Growth Rate                  20.2    12.8       9.6       9.8
9.       The current account deficit is kept within the range of 2-3? of GNP,
reflecting limited net resource transfer from foreign borrowings in light of
the high external debt and limited availability of concessionary lending.
Domestic savings, therefore, must rise to about 202 of GNP (compared to about
16? in 1988). A more rapid rise in domestic savings is incompatible with the
need to have a significant rise in per capita consumption. With population
growth of 2.4? per annum, the present projection produces per capita
consumption growth of approximately 42 per annum. This is considered the
minimum necessary to make a serious dent in the pervasive poverty problem.
10.      Attaining these goals for the economy will also depend on achieving a
growth rate of exports of about 10? per year, with a growth of manufactured
exports of about 13? per annum. Since manufactured exports are 65? of total
commodity exports in the Philippines, the maintenance of a competitive trading
environment, including a competitive exchange rate, is essential to the
overall success of the program. Also important is the continued access of
Philippine exports to markets in developed countries, and the maintenance of
an open and competitive world trading environment.
11.      As shown in Table 5, the capital required to finance even this modest
current account deficit is quite large. The current account balance, at about
$S.5-$2.0 billion per year, is still smaller than the interest payments on the
debt, which run in the range of $2.3-3.0 billion. Thus, in net transfer
terms, the Philippines will continue to experience a negative net transfer of
resources from the rest of the world. The scenario assumes conservative
increases in new long term disbursements, but does not include at present any
new commercial money beyond 1990. The resulting gap averages about $300
million per year during the period 1990-92, and then rises sharply since the
projections do not for the moment assume &ny additional rescheduling from
either the Paris Club or the commercial banks. However, assuming that the
Paris Club will reschedule in 1993 yields a revised gap of about $600 million
per year in 1993-1995. Direct foreign investment flows are also
conservatively estimated at $1 billion on average per year, but could be a
larger source of capital inflows, if impediments to investment are alleviated
and if the debt-equity scheme can be expanded.



Table 5: FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
(; million)
1989     1990       1991     1992      1993      1994    1995
Imn'orts                  -10,005  -11,573   -13,224  -15,084  -17,184  -19,615  -22,394
Exports                      7,960    9,328    10,981   12,892   15,081   17,663   20,707
Services, net               1,008       922        812      656       442      171      -208
Net Factor Payments         X,086    1,020       1,216    1,560    1,603    1,650    1,677
(interest)                2,317    2,267      2,480    2,851    2,900    2,951    2,982
Net Transfers                  866      935      1,011    1,097    1,194    1,301    1,420
Current Account            -1,256   -1,408    -1,635   -2,000   -2,069   -2,130   -2,153
Direct Investment              757      891      1,021    1,077    1,133    1,321    1,421
Net LT Loans                  814       624      1,351    1,503       256     -210       433
Disbursements           2,115    1,904      2,631    2,971    3,152    3,235    3,269
Repayments              1,301    1,280      1,281    1,467    2,896    3,446    2,837
Changes in Reserves
IMF net                     123      -137        -93      -50       -58      -93      -125
Official Reserves          -621      -922       -955     -663      -661     -765      -880
Gap (net)                        0      760        432     -269    1,013    1,577    1,367
After Paris Club resch.                                             348      857       630
Memo:
DOD/GNP (Z)                     67       61         57       53        48        44       41
Debt Service/XGS (Z)            30       27         25       24        28        27       22
Debt Outstanding  ($b)        30.4     31.9       33.8     36.2      37.7     39.5      41.3
12.      Even with these comparatively large, in nominal terms, capital
inflows, the total stock of debt does not increase as rapidly as exports or
GDP. Hence the debt service ratio declines gradually o er time, indicating a
gradual return to creditworthiness. Likewise, the ratio of debt to GDP also
declines gradually from 68Z in 1989 to 502 by 1995. Thus, this scenario
suggests that it should be possible to sustain a fairly rapid growth of the
economy, and ultimately restore creditworthiness, provided sufficient capital
flows are made available. The cost of this adjustment must be shared between
the Philippines, which must improve investment efficiency and raise domestic
savings, and the external creditors, who must continue to provide adequate
levels of new loans, and debt relief on existing commitments, in order to
support the gradual reduction in the relative size of the debt burden. Rapid
growth will increase the debt servicing capacity of the country, and provide
for a more orderly return to voluntary lending arrangements.
13.      To sum up, by 1988 the economy had attained a much stronger position
than it had had since 1983: GDP was growing at 6.4Z per year, exports were
rising sharply, inflation had been brought inder control, and investment had



recovered to about 182 of GDP. These positive developments were sustained
into 1989. However, much of the growth had resulted from the effect of the
policy reforms instituted and a better use of existing capacity. It was
becoming increasingly clear that the prospects for continued growth were
running into physical constraints. For the Philippine economy to move to the
higher growth path on a more permanent basis will require a substantial
increase in investment. In financing this investment, a significant effort
will have to come from domestic sources; recent changes in the tax system and
in its performance indicate that the authorities have started moving seriously
in this direction. However, it is clear that a large part of the resources
will have to be provided by external donors. The projections indicate that
the Philippines can attain the target growth rate of 6.5Z annually (agreed to
by the Government and the Fund) with sharply rising investment to the
neighborhood of 242 of GDP. This is still considerably lower than the
historical highs of 30Z recorded in the 1970s.
14.      The Philippines therefore needs to confront two issues:  (a) how to
maintain the external support necessary for obtaining the required funds; and
(b) how to ensure that the additional resources made available are directed
into high quality investment. In order to achieve the former, the Philippines
will have to tap both official and commercial sources.
Official Sources
15.      The Government has made progress in accelerating the level of
commitments from official sources, and improving the utilization of existing
loans. A Committee for Official Development Assistance composed of cabinet
members and chaired by a full time chairman who has cabinet rank has been
established to focus attention on efficient and timely implementation of
projects, adequacy of project preparation efforts, and speedy resolution of
issues which require inter-departmental coordination and adjudication.
16.      A Consultative Group Meeting held in Tokyo in July, 1989 was convened
to consider the Philippine financing needs. The Agenda document noted above
(para. 7) had been specifically drawn up for this meeting and detailed the
Philippine policy program and financing needs which had been endorsed by the
Bank and the Fund. The donors noted the substantial progress during the past
two years in achieving stabilization of the economy and progress on structural
reform. They agreed with the overall thrust of the Government's development
preogram (as outlined above), and particularly emphasized the need to address
the deep-seated problems of poverty, population growth and the environment.
Special measures would continue to be needed to improve the utilization of
project assistance. Overall, the donors agreed to provide $3.5 billion of
assistance during the next year, about double the level pledged during the
previous (1987) meeting. Further support at this level in future years was
also indicated, provided that the Philippines secured continued debt relief
and new money commitments from the commercial banks and demonstrated a growing
absorptive capacity by virtue of speedier implementation and development of a
pipeline which could absorb the commitment levels requested.



- 10 -
II. THE COMMERCIAL BANK FINANCING PACKAGE
Structure of Commercial Bank Debt
17.      As of end 1988, Philippine external debt was $29 billion.  Of this
total, $13.0 billion (47I), was held by commercial banks. The short-term
trade credit component of this commercial bank debt is about $3 billion. Of
the balance of $10.0 billion medium and long-term (MLT) debt, only $6.6
billion is owed by the public sector, either originally contracted/guaranteed
by government or private sector debt folded into the public sector under the
1985 and 1987 rescheduling agreements. The Philippines has no interest in
reducing or exchanging the short-term trade lines, which are being fully
utilized. The private sector (financial and non-financial) medium and long-
term debt are already subject to restructuring and debt swap deals on an
individual transactions basis. This $6.6 billion eligible for debt and debt
service reduction represents only 24? of Philippine debt. This contrasts for
instance with Mexico, where the corresponding amount of $52.7 billion accounts
for 52? of the total debt.
18.      For all intents, this $6.6 billion public medium and long-term debt
is the only amount suitable for debt and debt service reduction based on a
general agreement between the Philippine government and its commercial banks.
19.      Moreover, there is heavy concentration of public medium and long-term
debt, as well as other debt, on a core group of banks. Ranking the 300 banks
with public MLT debt according to exposure, the first 20 banks hold 52? of
this debt; the first 50 hold 80?. At the other end, the smallest 100 banks
hold only 3.5X of this debt.
20.      This structure of the Philippine commercial bank debt, namely (i) a
narrow base of debt which can be subject to debt or debt service reduction;
and (ii) the high concentration of debt on a few banks and minimal exposure of
a large number of banks sets the parameters for the Philippine debt package.
Considerations that Shaped the Financing Package
21.      To meet the financing objectives of the program (i.e., to close the
1989-90 financing gap), it was essential to have a substantial new money
component in the package. The $1.4 billion financing target could not be met
by debt reduction alone, even in the extreme and unrealistic case of wholesale
forgiveness of total public MLT debt, which at $6.6 billion, would result in
an immediate cash f1ow effect of less than $1.0 billion.
22.      It was considered feasible to secure this new money on a largely
voluntary basis from the relatively small zore group of banks who have a long-
term interest in the Philippines. At the same time, maintaining relationships
with such core group of banks best enhanced prospects of renewed access of the
Philippines to the international credit market.
23.      From the Philippine perspective, this also meant that the debt
reduction and debt service reduction component of the package had to:



- 11 -
(a) limit the erosion of such core group of banks; and (b) permit the large
number of banks with small exposures, potential free-riders, to exit
voluntarily and cleanly while bearing their share of the burden.
24.      This pointed to debt buybacks at the prevailing secondary market
price as the appropriate instrument. Through deeper discounts on a smaller
part of the debt, buybacks can deliver equivalent present value reduction in
debt as debt swaps without eroding the needed new money base. Moreover,
because it is simple, certain (both in financial terms and accounting
treatment) and allows banks to clean their balance sheets, buybacks target
small exposure banks better than any debt swap.
25.      It was determined on the basis of a pre-marketing survey that there
was sufficient interest from the universe of banks to meet the Philippine
financing needs from a package with two options--new money bonds and buybacks
at the secondary discount rate.
26.      On October 11, 1989 the Philippine authorities distributed the final
term sheet for the country's 1989-90 commercial bank financing and debt
reduction package. It included two principal features:
(a) New moneX, in the form of either bonds or loans, with a 15 year final
maturity, including eight years of grace, and a spread of 13116 of lZ
over LIBOR. While commercial bank participation in new money is
voluntary, the Philippine authorities had indicated that $1 billion
over two years was desirable. This would have represented a 20Z
increase in exposure for the banks holding the balance of the
principal after debt buyback. Indications so far are that at least
$600 million has been secured, and the authorities expect further
commitments up to the date of signature of the agreement.
(b) Buybacks. In conjunction with this operation, the Central Bank of
the Philippines has offered to purchase for cash, up to $1.3 billion
of certain categories of commercial debt at 502 of its face value.
As of November 10, 1989, offers for $1.8 billion of buybacks had been
received. The purchase is scheduled to take place on January 3,
1990.
27.      In addition, the term sheet indicates that the existing agreements
between the Philippines and the commercial banks will be amended to permlt the
Philippines to use up to $1.5 billion directly and indirectly derived from
official sources for cash buybacks or for credit support of debt exchanges for
discount or par bonds. The Philippines would also be permitted to use up to
$300 million a year from any source for such purposes, in certain
circumstances. This allows the Philippines to undertake additional debt and
debt service reduction operations in the future. In addition, the Philippines
would be permitted to use up to $200 million a year of assets, revenues, or
receivables for credit support for new money borrowings.



- 12 -
28.      Other components and features of the package are:
(i)   a restructuring of the debt covered by the 1985 New Money Agreement
on the same terms as the 1989 bonds. As of March 31, 1989 this
amounted to $780 million, $200 million of which matures in 1990;
(ii)   amendments to each Public Sector Restructuring Agreement which, among
other things, reduce the interest spread on these loans from 14/16th
to 13/16th over LIBOR to conform to the 1989 New Money Bonds and
Loans; and
(iii)   up to 202 of a bank's new money contr4bution can take the form of a
relending facility. Half of such relending can go to the private
sector, and half to the public sector.
Benefits of the Financing Package for the Philippines
29.      The debt buyback is part of an integrated financing package and hence
the benefits to the Philippines must be evaluated in the context of the entire
package. While there are tangible benefits for the Philippines from the
improvement in terms on rescheduled debt, from the voluntary new money made
available as well as from the debt reduction component itself, the larger
benefit to the country stems from the improved environment which the proposed
financing package will help bring about.
30.      The financing package scenario, along with continuation of the
package of adjustment programs and their deepening, would allow the economy to
achieve a GDP growth of over 6?, consistent with its own aspirations. It
would also permit a modest growth in per capita consumption; investment, both
private and public, would continue to riae and hopefully achieve a level of
24? of GDP and permit the Philippines to achieve general market
creditworthiness (as measured by commonly used indicators such as debt service
to exports of below 20Z) by the end of the period.  The share of commercial
creditors in the overall debt portfolio is expected to rise to a point where
net transfers would be largely neutral and the share of the official sector
would remain at about current levels.
31.      The impact on private domestic investment would be quite significant.
The conclusion of the agreement and the confidence with which the Government
could address the task of sustaining development would clearly buttress the
high level of confidence already exhibited in the last two years. Direct
foreign investment, which has also recorded a significant surge in the past
two years, would be expected to pick up further momentum in this atmosphere of
confidence and would contribute significantly to enhancing market accesb and
export competitiveness. Finally, the reduction in the debt service burden,
the improvement in the financing terms, and the rescheduling together with the
adjustment program, should help reduce the pressure on the budget and hence
its impact on domestic interest rates and its crowding out effects.
32.      The successful conclusion of the proposed financing package with the
commercial banks would essentially eliminate the financing gap in 1990, reduce
it to an average of less than $400 million per year in 1991 and 1992 (see
Table 5), and make the financing of the gap for later years more manageable



- 13 -
through some combination of official rescheduling, second-stage debt
operation, and continued amounts of new money. While the operation neither
relieves the Philippines of its overall debt problem, nor assures it of
automatic financing, it is a very large first-step affecting its immediate
financing requirements and its medium-term prospects.
33.      The debt buyback permits the Philippines to retire $1.3 billion worth
of public and publicly-guaranteed long-term debt held by commercial banks (20%
of the total of such debt) at a substantial discount of 502, which is slightly
better than the prevailing market discount. The economic rate of return on
this operation is estimated to be 23Z, based on the discounted net cash flow
generated by this operation. Even this narrow and static view of the debt
reduction operation indicates the return to be comparable or greater than the
returns the Government would obtain if the resources devoted to the debt
buyback were invested in the economy, or for that matter, in risk free
investments of its reserves in the international market.
34.      However, as stated earlier, the debt buyback is part of an integrated
financing package and hence the benefits to the Philippines must be evaluated
in the context of the entire package.   This raises a sensitive issue.  The
entire debt management package has been under discussion with commercial banks
for a considerable period of time, has been widely publicized, raised high
expectations, and is seen as symbolic of the harmonious relations between the
country and its commercial financiers. A failure of the deal to materialize
at this late stage would thus signal a serious rupture in these relations and
create a crisis of confidence. In other words, the financing environment in
which the debt management package is aborted is likely to be very different
from one in which the deal goes through. The former would be reflected in a
drying-up of future commercial flows, a lower rate of direct investment, and
very probably lower official lending as well, because these sources would
hardly welcome the role of continuously being providers of large net inflows
when the commercial banks were responsible for a substantial net outflow. The
reduction in financing from all these sources would lead to a significant fall
in the investment rate and the growth of production and exports. The shortage
of foreign exchange can also be expected to adversely affect the growth of
imports, resulting in a less efficient use of fixed capital.
35.      The implications of such an adverse environment have been simulated,
but given that many different assumptions could be made about how the
disruption in confidence would likely affect the ultimate outcome, such
scenarios can only be illustrative. The overriding feature of a negative
qutcome on the debt financing package is an anticipated loss in confidence
leading to a much lower growth rate over the 1990-94 period. Given the nature
of the recent debate in Philippines, and the sharp cut back in living
standards experienced by the country over the past six years, it is very
unlikely that, from a socio-political perspective, an outcome in which per
capita consumption stagnates is tenable. It is more likely that the
Government under legislation passed by the Congress would put a cap on debt
servicing which would give rise to arrears on commercial and official lending,
create a sharp and immediate loss of confidence by private investors, both
domestic and foreign, and fuel a resumption of capital flight. This would, in
turn, lead to imposition of controls and restriction on imports and
essentially disrupt the momentum the economy has gathered in recent years.



- 14 -
For this reason, the first-stage debt reduction operation combined with the
resumption of new money flows is a critical first-step in the Philippines
medium-strategy to rebuild creditor confidence and set the country on a higher
growth path based on enhanced investment prospects.
36.      To summarize, the financing package proposed to the commercial banks,
if successfully completed, will have a major Impact on Philippines' growth
prospects by providing the resources necessary foi the growth in private
investment, both domestic and foreign, creating a mJ3re positive domestic
environment in which to continue servicing its deb., establishing a path
towards full resumption of voluntary lending, and fostering measures which
will help improve the efficiency of investment.
III. BANK STRATEGY AND OPERATIONAL PLANS
37.      The decision of Bank management to support the Government in its debt
reduction program should be viewed against the backdrop of overall Bank
involvement in the Philippines as well as the specifics of the operation. The
Bank has taken the lead role in coordinating flows of official assistance to
the Philippines, including recent actions under the Multilateral Assistance
Initiative. Moreover, the Bank has shifted its emphasis from stabilization
efforts and macroeconomic adjustment to sector-specific operations as part of
a deliberate strategy. The highlights of that strategy are described below.
Bank Strategy
38.      The basic thrust of Bank strategy is to focus on four broad areas:
(i) the continuation of economic policy reform to deepen the adjustment
process and enhance the efficiency of resource allocation; (ii) the
improvement of absorptive capacity through orderly investment planning and
more effective implementation; (iii) assistance in meeting the country's
critical needs in infrastructure, social services, and natural re;ource
management; and (iv) cooperative efforts to address poverty alleviation issues
tnrough effective policies and policy interventions.
39.      In implementing this strategy, the Bank, working closely with the
Fund, has over the past four years assieted the Philippines in the formulation
and subsequent implementation of major policy actions. The gains made by the
Philippines since 1987 are to a large extent the result of freeing the economy
from the significant distortions built up during the previous decade.
Nevertheless, further actions are needed to continue and deepen the adjustment
process, to generate higher growth on a sustainable basis, and to bring about
more widely distributed benefits from such growth.
40.      The Bank's strategy has been to identify issues which need to be
tackled through its economic and sector work. This has been done in a wide
array of sectors including education, transport, environment, energy and
agrarian reform. Further, work is either under way or planned in health,
family planning, telecommunications, rural electrification, rural banking, and
local government finance and administration. Sustainable growth in the
Philippines requires that the private sector not only face a conducive



- 15 -
enabling environment in terms of incentives, but that it also be fully
supported by appropriate sectoral policies and investments in infrastructure,
including energy, transport, and human resource development, complemented by
an effective family planning program.
41.      This strategy yields a sectorally focussed lending program as the
core activities of the Bank in the Philippines at this time. Amongst the
operations expected to be presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal
year is a major energy sector operation which, in a sense, is the first in a
series of what is hoped will be sectoral programs with strong sector specific
policy underpinnings, incorporating rigorous review of sectoral plans and
investments. It will also be a vehicle for attracting cofinancing from
official sources as well as encouraging private sector involvement. Similar
sectoral operations are under preparation in the fields of education,
transport, telecommunications and natural resource management. Such
operations will provide not only suitable vehicles for an intensive dialogue
with the Government leading to an agreement on specific policy and
institutional aspects, but will also ensure that the funding from the Bank and
other official sources is directed at supporting specific high priority
programs and investments. Therefore, the sectoral investment approach with
requisite policy underpinnings which forms the core of the Bank's lending
strategy seeks to (i) rebuild real assets in the economy; (ii) provide
vehicles which significantly add to the country's absorptive capacity; and
(iii) lead to early commitment of funds from interested donors who draw some
comfort from the Bank's involvement and appraisal of the program. While there
will be occasions both from a balance of payments perspective as well as
financing ease that may favor a hybrid lending approach in some of these
activities, the thrust and direction agreed with the Government is clearly to
shift the balance towards investment lending.
Proposed Bank Support
42.      Within the context of the Bank's strategy towards the Philippines,
management believes that its support for the debt reduction plan agreed to by
the Government of the Philippines and its commercial creditors furthers the
interest of the Philippines. The Bank support sought by the Government for
its debt reduction program and proposed herein is in strict compliance with
the Operational Guidelines and Procedures for Use of IBRD Resources to Support
Debt and Debt Service Reductions (R89-104 of May 22, 1989) as approved by the
Executive Directors.
flelineation of the Set-Aside
43.      As described in the previous section, it is a matter of deliberate
Bank strategy to bring about a shift in emphasis towards supporting specific
sectoral policy and investment programs, largely through investment and, in
some cases, hybrid operations.   The debt support issue arises at the end of a
series of adjustment activities successfully undertaken in the Philippines,
and there are no new adjustment operations at an advanced state of
preparation. Therefore, in accordance with the guidelines, the set-aside
amount was established equal to ten percent of the three year lending program
FY90-92.



- 16 -
44.      As agreed with the Philippine authorities and as indicated at the
special Consultative Group Meeting in support of the Multilateral Aid
Initiative, the Bank is actively working on a series of operations which would
permit it to commit an amount of $2.1 billion during this period. Total
adjustment lending during that same period was not programmed to exceed
roughly $350 million either in the form of a full adjustment operation or a
number of hybrid activities. Ten percent of the aggregate lending program
yields the set-aside of $200 million as proposed. What this means is that by
virtue of the proposed debt reduction support operation, the Bank will reduce
its lending program in the remaining two years, so that the total for the
three years FY90-92 will not exceed $2.1 billion. This will be accomplished
either by dropping specific operations, or, more desirably, by reducing the
Bank's share in future lending activities through enhanced cofir,ancing.
The Choice of Vehicle
45.      The vehicle proposed (i.e., a stand-alone debt reduction operation)
is in keeping with the guidelines as they apply to specific country cases. By
design, the "stand-alone" operation is entirely and specifically targeted to
yield resources to assist the debt reduction activity and its conditionality
is specifically germane to the sets of issues which must be addressed if the
ability of the country to effectively utilize the additional financing is to
be ensured and accomplishment of the ultimate objective of any debt reduction
exercise--a return of general creditworthiness--is to be furthered.
46.      Management has carefully examined the option of delivering the set-
aside through advancing tranches under ongoing adjustment operations. There
are two operations, the Public Corporate Reform Program (third tranche, $50
million) and the Financial Sector Adjustment Program (second tranche, $150
million) totalling $200 million which could technically have been advanced.
However, it is Management's view that the substantial conditions associated
with those tranches were far from being complied with, and in the Financial
Sector Adjustment Operation in particular, legislative action which is time
consuming but critical, has yet to be completed. It was therefore felt that
advancing those tranches to allow delivery of the set-aside would have
vitiated the tranche release conditions so critical to the successful outcome
of those operations. The possibility of bringing forward a hybrid operation
associated with a recently negotiated energy sector loan was also examined.
While there are multiple sectoral policy underpinnings in that operation, it
was considered ill-advised to associate a debt reduction operation with it.
The reason quite simply was that the associated conditions, while very
relevant for addressing issues in the energy sector, did not provide the
overall umbrella for ensuring adequacy and efficiency of investment growth,
both public and private, critical to the final outcome of the debt reduction
plan.
Conditionality
47.      The proposed stand-alone operation to provide a debt management loan
of $200 million focusses attention on continued macroeconomic performance, the
adequacy and efficiency of public and private investment, and the maintenance
of public assets. These are areas which the Bank and the Fund have addressed
over the past three years through multiple activities, and in which



- 17 -
significant and discernible progress has been achieved. However, reforms in
these central areas need to be sustained and deepened, if the additional
financing made available by official and commercial sources is to yield
maximum benefits for the economy. For this reason, the Government is
committed to a series of actions aimed at strengthening macroeconomic
performance and improving the quality and level of investment.
Macroeconomic Policies
48.      The Government of the Philippines has agreed to pursue macroeconomic
policies consistent with the attainment of real annual growth of over 62,
single digit inflation, and an improved balance of payments. The 1989
objectives of the program sustained by the ERL and by the IMF Extended
Arrangement have been broadly attained. However, monetary targets for base
and broad money have been exceeded and inflation has been higher than
projected. While this is largely the consequence of one time events, such as
the minimum wage increase, Government recognizes that macroeconomic policies
need to be strengthened. Therefore, agreement has been reached with the Fund
on a program to bring about significant improvements in the public sector
deficit, the current account, and inflation. Underpinning these objectives
are explicit new revenue generation measures and public expenditure targets as
well as performance criteria with respect to (a) public sector borrowing
requirements, (b) ceilings on base money, (c) a floor for net international
reserves, and (d) limits on both total and short-term foreign borrowing. The
Government has also committed itself to maintaining a competitive exchange
rate.
49.      The Bank has made adherence to a strong program of macroeconomic
management a condition for the debt management loan. In pursuance of this
aim, Government is increasing the wholesale domestic price of petroleum,
extending the program of monthly tariff increases by the National Power
Corporation, and raising water tariff charges in line with inflation. A
package of new revenue generation measures has been submitted to the Congress.
This operation is being brought forward in tandem with the Fund's set-aside
operation, which is proceeding in light of the Fund's view that the
macroeconomic environment is suitable. A program of continued macroeconomic
strengthening, as seen in improvements in the consolidated public sector and
current account positions, as well as continued adherence to monetary targets
consistent with those of the Fund's Extended Arrangement are conditions for
second tranche release.
Public Investment
50.      The conditionality existing under the Economic Recovery Loan which
requires maintenance of an adequate level of investment expenditures will be
continued. In the context of "adequacy," the Philippine authorities had at
the time indicated that they would aim for a target of 5 percent of GNP.
Experience to date would indicate that while investment expenditures have
picked up momentum, they have not yet reached that level. Bank and Fund data
would indicate an average of 4.0 percent of GNP during the past year with a
particularly sharp upturn in the first quarter of 1989. We believe a target
of 5 percent is still appropriate and hence should be retained, recognizing
that under Bank and Fund forecasts, given the overall resource picture, a



- 18 -
level of 4.5-4.7 percent is more likely in the next year. Maintenance of an
adequate level of investment is a condition for second tranche release.
51.      Two significant reasons, which have contributed to a slower than
anticipated build-up in investment levels, have been the paucity of well-
prepared projects ready for commitment, and implementation delays, largely
generated by administrative procedures. This is the primary area on which new
conditionality will focus. Specific undertakings by the Government include
actions to:
(i)   improve efficiency of procurement practices by amending the present
directive which mandates negotiations with the lowest evaluated
bidder where bid price exceeds agency estimates; while this
provision has been removed in its application to international
competitive bidding and removed in a limited fashion for local
competitive bidding funded by official sources, it has created
considerable confusion and delays, both amongst bidders as well as
implementing agencies. Issuance of revised Implementing Rules and
ReRulations or a new order from the Office of the President to
effect this change is a first tranche condition:
(ii)   streamline overall procurement processes by greater delegation to
and within implementing agencies, and introduce specific standards
to shorten the elapsed time from bid opening to award to conform to
standard bid validity periods (90 days). This should exert a major
impact on the speed of implementation, as current experience would
indicate that elapsed times in excess of one year are not uncommon.
Completion of administrative action required to give effect to
streamlininR is a second tranche condition:
(iii)   establish revised guidelines for retention of consultants which
clarifies criteria for obtaining specialists and firms, delegates
substantial authority to implementing agencies, and establishes
specific time standards for the review process to ensure that
selection and award of consulting contracts can be completed within
60 days. Completion of administrative action required to give
effect to these changes is a second tranche condition;
(iv)   review control processes with the aim of reducing ex ante control
and establishing ex post accountability; in particular, the scope
and responsibility for the ongoing internal audits of agencies,
annual audit of accounts, as well as a management audit, needs to be
reviewed and clear demarkation lines established.l/ A detailed
delineation of scope and responsibility for actions developed in
1/   In particular, the management audit function which is carried out on a
transactional basis in conjunction with the internal audit function needs
to be more programmatic. Transaction-by-transaction management audit
dilutes managerial authority as well as accountability and is a major
cause of delays when management judgment on design standards, technical
specification and advisory needs are questioned.



- 19 -
consultation with the Bank is a condition for second tranche
release:
(v)   ensure timely and dependable release of allocated budgetary funds
for public expenditures by simplifying administrative procedures; in
particular given the growing scope of the investment program,
specific provision needs to be nade to ensure the timeliness of
decisions. A specific action plan is to be developed in
consultation with the Bank to be implemented prior to second tranche
release:
(vi)   update the Medium-Term Public Investment Program (MTPIP), and
integrate that with the Medium-Term Technical Assistance Program
(MTPAP) to ensure consistency and to direct technical assistance
adequately towards specific project preparation activities. The
provision of an updated and integrated MTPIP is a second tranche
condition:
(vii)   establish: (a) a monitoring unit within the Committee on Official
Development Assistance (CODA) and (b) a project preparation facility
with simplified rules for agencies to seek project preparation
funding for projects included in the MTPIP. The establishment of
the monitoring unit is a first tranche condition. The establishment
of the proiect preparation facility is a second tranche condition;
and
(viii)   develop an overall financing plan consistent with the MTPIP to
ensure coordination between project agencies and official donors on
project preparation which in turn would facilitate timely commitment
of funds and subsequent implementation.
Operation and Maintenance of Public Investment
52.      The ongoing Economic Recovery Loan had provided that Operations and
Maintenance (O&M) expenditures would be maintained in real terms, at 1982
levels. This provision has been adhered to, and will be maintained in the
proposed operation. In order to establish a maintenance regimen in the
Philippines, there is need for developing a more systematic approach based on
engineering and economic criteria. To do so, particularly for the major
elements of public investment, specific agencies have been identified which
account for well over 60 percent of the stock of public investment, with the
view to undertake a comprehensive study (based on generally established
engineering and economic criteria) to define the appropriate cycles and
intensity of maintenance effort. This will lead to the improvement or
preparation of maintenance manuals, adherence to which will provide for
greater confidence in maintenance efforts as opposed to the current reliance
on an aggregate level of O&M expenditures. The completion of the study and
adoption of requisite maintenance manuals is a second tranche release
condition. Furthermore, to overcome capacity limitations and improve
efficiency, the Government will initiate a program for awarding O&M work to
private contractors, as condition for first tranche release.



- 20 -
Private Investment
53.      In :he area of private investment, a number of policy actions which
pertain to creating the appropriate 'enabling environment" for efficient
allocation of private investment have already been established through:
-   the liberalization of the trade regime achieved through the Bank's
ERL and now continued under the three year IMF EFF Program;
-   the efforts to open up the financial markets undertaken in the past
and the specific measures for enhancing banking competition and
reducing intermediation costs as provided in the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan;
-   the competitiveness of the exchange rate, being actively addressed
and monitored by the Fund under its Extended Arrangement; and
-   the continued privatization efforts, supported by the Reform Program
for Government Corporations.
54.      While the Government is committed to continue to adhere to the
respective provisions of these operations with the Bank and Fund, two specific
areas will be addressed under this activity:
-   resumption of the debt-equity conversion program, under clear and
transparent rules; and
-   a study of impediments to acceleration of private investment, both
domestic and foreign, focussing in particular on the following
issues:
(a) Foreign Investment: (i) review proposals to liberalize and
increase transparency of equity requirements of foreign
investments; and (ii) review competitiveness of the
Philippines from the perspective of labor costs, infrastructure
adequacy and general environment rather than specific
investment incentives alone.
(b) Fiscal Incentives: review incentives provided under Omnibus
Investment Code with a view to: (i) make eligibility less
discretionary, and (ii) reflect a revised structure and level
of incentives which are more cost effective from fiscal and
corporate points of view; such review to investigate, inter
alia, the benefits of loss carryover and income averaging
facilities as compared to those of the present system of income
tax holidays.
(c) Regulatory Framework: (i) streamline registration procedures
including strengthening the staffing and authority of the "one-
stop-shop"; (ii) simplify and shorten the procedures for
availment of incentives, particularly access to capital goods
inputs; (iii) develop options for restructuring BOI to stress
its promotional rather than discretionary role; (iv) review the



- 21 -
current capacity restrictions in various industries; and
(v) develop appropriate guidelines based on the aforementioned
analysis.
(d)  Technology Transfer Arrangements:  provide greater flexibility
in setting royalty rates for technology transfer; transform
the Technology Transfer Registry from a regulatory to a
technical assistance and advisory unit.
Resumption of the debt-equitX conversion Program, completion of the study and
discussion of the recommendations with the Bank are second tranche conditions.
Disbursement
55.      It is proposed that the loan be available in two tranches.  The first
amounting to $150 million to be available upon effectiveness of the loan,
would requires
(a) promulgation of a revised directive on procurement referred to in
para. 51(i) above;
(b) creation of the monitoring unit referred to in para. 51(vii) above;
(c) initiation of programs for awarding O&M work to private contractors,
referred to in para. 52 above; and
(d) submission of terms of reference regarding the studies referred to in
paras. 52 and 54 above.
56.      The second tranche of $50 million would be released when the specific
actions in paras. 50 to 54 above are substantially carried out to satisfy the
Bank regarding progress in two major areas:
(a) maintenance of the levels of public investments and O&M expenditures
at agreed levels and adoption of measures to improve their
implementation; and
(b) improvement in the "enabling enviL  -.ent" for private investm.lAt,
both domestic and foreign.
The second tranche will also be subject to Government's adherence to the
macroeconomic program detailed in paras. 48 and 49. While work on a number of
areas incorporated in the conditionality has been started, it is management's
expectation that compliance will take approximately 9-10 months.
57.      Since the primary purpose of the loan is to finance the debt buyback,
funds will be disbursed against evidence of being utilized for this specific
purpose.
Justification for Bank Support
58.      As detailed in paras. 29-36 above, the benefits of the debt reduction
component by itself, and more importantly the integrated financing package for



- 22 -
the Philippines, are very significant. In terms of ensuring growth in public
investment, enhancing prospects for enlarged private investment, domestic and
foreign, ensuring support for maintaining the track record for diligent debt
servicing, and by contributing to growth of incomes and exports, the operation
will promote the return to general market creditworthiness.
59.      The Ba,,  participation in the financing of the debt reduction
component. is justified on several scores:
(a) The Bank's financina is regarded as critical foc Philippines to be
able to undertake the debt reduction component and, hence the entire
financing package. The commercial bank agreement clearly provides
for the debt reduction component to precede new money and states that
the financing must come directly or indirectly from official sources.
The actions of the Fund and Bank, along with bilateral donors, will
be critical in providing the US$650 million needed to repurchase the
anticipated $1.3 billion of debt.
(b) The Bank's involvement in this operation reinforces policy and
institutional reform in relation to public and private investment,
which is critical not only to ensure that the resources released by
the operation are used effectively, but also that the quality of
investment overall is enhanced.
(c) The Bank's role in this endeavor is seen by the Government as
essential support for actions aimed at the restoration of
creditworthiness. The return to creditworthiness and the increasing
share of commercial lenders serves to enhance the quality of the
Bank's Philippine portfolio.
(d) Bank support for this operation reinforces the close cooperation and
the scope and depth of the Bank's dialogue with the Philippines.
Risks
60.      The primary risk is that the anticipated improvements in investment
efficiency do not materialize, either because the macroeconomic environment
deteriorates or because the proposed measures are ineffective in raising the
quality of investments. By linking both first and second tranche releases to
macroeconomic policies mirrored in the Fund's EFF, and given the authorities'
commitment to macroeconomic stability, it is thought that these risks are
acceptable. At the same time, the proposed measures to improve the quality of
investment are quite specific and tailored to the economy's absorptive
capacity. Recent policy initiatives, such as the establishment of the Project
Facilitation Committee and the Committee on Official Development Assistance,
are concrete expressions of the Government's resolve to improve the management
of official assistance used for public investment. Similar reforms can be
expected in regard to private investment once the required studies are
completed. While the risk still exists that political developments in the
Philippines could hamper policy implementation, the coordinated approach of
the Bank and Fund and the donors reduces this risk.



- 23 -
IV. COORDINATION WITH TH' IMF
61.      The Government's program also continues to receive the financial
support of the IMF. An initial Standby Agreement in 1985 was agreed in order
to provide the basis of the stabilization program. After the change in
Government in 1986, a new agreement was drawn up, superseding the prior
agreement. and establishing new targets for monetary growth, fiscal and
external balances. In addition, both the 1985 and 1986 agreements were
closely coordinated with the World Bank, and supported reform programs in
public corporations, agriculture, public investment and trade liberalization.
In 1989, with the successful completion of the 1986 Standby, the Government
reached agreement with the IMF on a new program. This program includes a $400
million Contingency Financing arrangement and a $900 million Extended Fund
Facility, to be drawn over three years through 1991. The EFF program supports
on-going reforms of public sector privatization, financial sector reforms, and
extension of further trade liberalization.
62.      In approving the EFF Program, the Fund Board approved a set aside
equivalent of $210 million. The Fund management is concurrently putting
forward proposals to its Board to advance the calendar 1990 tranche set aside
to yield a total set-aside amount of $120 million to assist the Philippine in
financing the debt buyback.
63.      Bank-Fund Cooperation.  There has been extensive cooperation between
the Bank and the Fund at various stages, both in the development of the policy
program, and in discussions on the current debt package. Various Fund
agreements have supported programs initiated by the Bank, including reforms in
the public corporate and financial sectors, and improvements in public
investment and expenditure allocations. Likewise, Bank operations have
supported reforms which have been primarily under the guidance of the Fund,
including tax reform and the exchange rate. Some issues, such as trade
liberalization and the removal of marketing monopolies in agriculture, have
been jointly developed and supported. Bank staff participated in the Extended
Fund Facility mission in February, 1989, and Fund staff participated in the
Bank's Financial Sector Report mission in 1988, which developed the policy
package for the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. In addition, joint
discussions were held between the Bank and Fund staffs, and the staffs of the
Central Bank and Department of Finance in July, 1989, concerning the possible
modalities of debt relief, and the support likely to be forthcoming from the
multilateral organizations.
V. RECOMMENDATION
64.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreements of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
November 30, 1989
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 8
PHILIPPINES
DEBT MANJAGEMENT PROGRAM
Mr. Barber Conable
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Conable:
Re: Debt Management Program
1.     The Government of the Republic of the Philippines is requesting
assistance from the World Bank in connection with its 1989-90 financing
package with the commercial banks. The Philippines continues to be heavily
burdened by an external debt currently totalling US$27.2 billion of which
US$13.2 billion is owed to commercial banks. The servicing of this debt
burden and constraints on access to voluntary credits from commercial sources
have been a major drag on the Philippine economy that threatens to undermine
the successful stabilization and adjustment efforts undertaken in recent
years.
2.     The financial package presented to the commercial banks on October 11,
1989 aims to raise new money from these banks on a quasi voluntary basis and
to obtain debt reduction through buy back operations at a sizeable discount.
This package is designed to cover the financing needs of the Philippine
economy, an essential ingredient for sustaining growth in the coming years.
3.     The funds being sought from the World Bank will form, along with funds
mdde available by the IMF and certain bilateral sources, a pool which will be
used to finance the debt buy-back portion of the financing package. These
buy-backs are part of a deliberate debt strategy designed by the Government in
conjunction with commercial lenders to reduce the stock of outstanding debt,
by allowing the Philippines to avail itself of the large discount for its debt
seen in secondary markets, while at the same time fostering a flow of new
funds to the country.
4.     The Philippines has emerged from a period of stabilization and
adjustment with three years of strong growth. Indeed, its performance among
the group of highly indebted countries has been remarkably strong. Growth has
averaged 6Z and inflation has been contained. Significant improvements in tax
collections have been made during the course of the last year. The exchange



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 8
rate continues to be determined by market forces. Macroeconomic fundamentals
remain sound and consistent with the economic policies supported by the IMF
under the Extended Arrangement. The Government is committed to continue its
prudent economic management of the economy in order to provide a stable
environment in which investment can be increased, growth accelerated, and the
repayment of external debt made more manageable.
5.     It is clear that the size of the debt burden and the annual interest
payments which the Philippines has diligently paid, have had significant
fiscal and monetary repercussions on the economy. In particular, the
Government has had to resort to a much higher level of domestic borrowing,
which has had the effect of crowding out private sector investment due to the
ensuing high levels of interest rates. At the same time the Philippines has
been running a large net negative transfer of funds position, in particular
vis-a-vis commercial lenders, a situation which the Government hopes
eventually to reverse. Therefore, the debt reduction proposal in combination
with the resumption of new commercial lending to the Philippines are critical
to the country's medium-term growth and development strategy.
6.     The Government is confident that with continued strong economic
management it will be able to capitalize on the major structural reforms that
have been put in place in the course of the last few years in collaboration
with the World Bank. Major policy advances have been made with respect to
trade liberalization, financial reform, privatization of public institutions,
tax reform, and agrarian reform. While these policy reforms are beginning to
bear fruit, with gradual recovery in per capita income towards the level of
the early 1980s, the nature and extent of the poverty problem facing the
country remains serious, particularly in terms of the number of people below
the poverty line. It is, therefore, imperative that the Philippines continue
to address its structural problems which have prevented it from joining the
ranks of other East Asian countries exhibiting rapid export growth and large
gains in income. In this context the Government reaffirms its commitment to
continue to implement the policy reforms embedded in sector adjustment
operations with the World Bank and those policies inherent in its program
supported by the IMF.
The Debt Strategy with Regard to Commercial Banks
7.     The total external debt of the Philippines has marginally declined from
US$28.6 billion in 1987 to US$27.2 billion, as of June 30, 1989, or around 70
percent of GNP. Of this total, about US$13.2 billion remains outstanding with
commercial banks, of which US$6.6 billion is medium and long term debt owed by
public or publicly guaranteed obligors to over 300 creditor banks, with 80
percent held by 50 banks. The cumulative negative net resource transfers to
commercial banks totalled US$3.1 billion over the period from 1986 to 1988.
The Government devised a strategy with respect to its commercial bank debt
which addresses two categories of commercial creditors. The strategy
features: (a) an exit option for the large number of banks with small
exposures; and (b) a new money participation option aimed at a core group of
banks that hold the bulk of outstanding debt and that have long term interest
in the Philippines. The exit option would apply to public and publicly



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 8
guaranteed debt: with respect to unguaranteed private obligors, flexibility
is provided them to work out arrangements appropriate to their circumstances.
8.     The basic strategy of providing an exit vehicle for low exposure banks,
while at the same time encouraging new flows, will not in and of itself
appreciably reduce the absolute stock of debt. The inmediate benefits,
however, are to be derived from (a) the improvement in repricing of
restructured debts, (b) the creation of a more positive domestic environment
for servicing the debt, and (c) the enhancement of investors confidence that
will contribute to the restoratien of creditworthiness. At the same time,
measures which can help improve the efficiency of investment will be
implemented so that the debt service burden will eventually be reduced. The
long-term objective is to reduce debt service to a more manageable level from
the current 31 percent to about 26 percent of total exports of goods and
services by 1992 and lower thereafter, in keeping with improved export
performance that will strengthen our capacity to service debt and allow us to
regain access to voluntary lending.
9.     On October 11, 1989, the Philippine authorities distributed the final
term sheet for the country's commercial bank financing and debt-reduction
program. It indicates that the Philippine Government intends to raise new
money in the form of bonds and loans. New money will have a 15 year tenor,
eight years of grace, and a spread of 13/16 of 1 percent over LIBOR. While
commercial bank participation in the provision of new money is voluntary, the
Philippine authorities have indicated that a substantial amount of new money
will be necessary for the successful conclusion of the deal. The term sheet
also indicates that existing agreements between the Philippines and commercial
banks will be amended to grant waivers that permit the Philippines to use over
time up to US$1.5 billion derived directly and indirectly from official
sources for debt or debt service reduction operations. The commercial banks
will also give waivers that permit the Philippines, after the first buy-back,
to use up to US$300 million a year from any source for such purposes, in
certain circumstances. In conjunction with the current financing package, the
Central Bank of the Philippines has offered to purchase, for cash, up to
US$1.3 billion of certain categories of commercial debt at 50 percent of its
face value. Such a purchase would generate a total cash requirement of up to
US$650 million. The purchase is scheduled to take place on January 3, 1990.
10.    In order to enhance business confidence and bolster the objective of
attracting investments while providing for another opportunity to reduce the
foreign debt stock and associated financing costs, the Government will
reactivate the debt-equity conversion program. This program will be operated
under a revised set of clear guidelines, while remaining consistent with the
country's monetary and fiscal objectives.



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 8
Benefits to the Philippines
11.    The immediate benefits to the Philippines of this operation include the
closing of the unfilled financing gap and the provision of an exit vehicle for
those commercial banks with no Interest in furtlher lending. Prospects for
achieving a target of over 6% gro-rth for the first half of the decade are
based on the availability of financing from official and commercial sources
and from accompanying improvements in the efficiency of capital. A Project
Facilitation Committee to increase the effective absorption of foreign capital
has been 'n place since 1988, assisted more recently by a major reform in the
administrative apparatus for foreign assistance management. The creation of
the Committee On Development Assistance (CODA) shall provide more effective
planning and programming of aid flows, through improved coordination with the
central policy bodies and implementing agencies. Over time, increased growth
will enhance our capacity to service debt and the prospect of regained
creditworthiness.
12.    The Government is aware that major improvements in the efficient use of
capital, both public and ptivate, are necessary to realize those benefits.
For this reason the Government commits itself to the following series of
actions aimed at strengthening the macroeconomic performance and improving the
quality and level of investment.
Macroeconomic Policies
13.    The Government will pursue macroeconomic policies consistent with the
attainment of real annual growth of over 6 percent, single digit inflation,
and an improved balance of payments. The macroeconomic framework in place
represents the policy objectives of the Government and is supported by the IMF
under the Extended Arrangement. It is understood that adherence to a strong
program of macroeconomic management, such as that underpinning the Extended
Arrangement, is necessary for all releases made under the proposed Debt
Management Loan. In this context, it is understood that particular attention
will be paid to the following policy variables: (a) fiscal revenue and
expenditures, with the aim of ensuring that the current consolidated public
sector deficit for 1990 expressed as a percentage of GNP is lower than its
1989 level; (b) monetary policies, consistent with growth and anti-inflation
objectives as reflected in the performance criteria of the Extended Agreement;
(c) a competitive exchange rate and external policies, with the aim of
reducing the current account deficit for 1990 expressed as a percentage of GNP
below its 1989 level.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 8
Public Investment
14.    In order to address some of the key infrastructural bottlenecks which
have lowered the growth potential of the Philippine economy, the Government
intends to retain the target of public investment at 5Z of GNP over the course
of the projection period. Recognizing the need to improve the quality an'id
quantity of projects in the pipeline, the Government commits itself to the
following specific undertakings:
(i)   to issue a revision to the Implementing Rules and Regulations for PD
1594, or an order from the Office of the President, to waive the
mandatory provision for negotiations with the lowest evaluated
bidder, for projects supported, in whole or part, by foreign
assistance.
(ii)   to take administrative action to streamline and accelerate
procurement procedures through, amongst other measures. (a) greater
delegation of authority to implementing agencies, and, as
appropriate, within agencies to lower levels of authority; and (b)
devising and applying specific standards which would shorten the
elapsed time from bid opening to award in conformity with standard
bid validity periods;
(iii)   to revise guidelines for the retention of consultants, delegating
substantial authority to implementing agencies and establishing
specific time standards for review processes, with the aim of
awarding contracts within 60 days;
(iv)   to delineate the scope and responsibility for internal audits, with
the aim of reducing ex-ante control and establishing ex-post
accountability; a specific and detailed plan of action will be
developed and implemented;
(v)   to develop and implement an action plan, consistent with the
principles of prudent budget management, to simplify administrative
procedures and ensure the more timely release of allocated budgetary
funds;
(vi)   to update the Medium-Term Public Investment Program (MTPIP) and to
integrate it with the Medium-Term Technical Assistance Program
(MTTAP) to ensure consistency and to direct such technical assistance
towards specific project preparation activities;
(vii)   (a) to establish a monitoring system within the Committee on Official
Development Assistance (CODA) and (b) create a project preparation
facility, within CODA, with clear and simple rules for agencies to
seek project preparation funds for projects included in the MTPIP;



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 8
(viii)   to develop an overall financing plan in support of, and consistent
with the MTPIP, to ensure coordination between project agencies and
official donors on project preparation activities.
15.   With respect to the timing of these aforementioned undertakings, the
Government expresses its intention to issue a revised directives, per para. 15
(item (i)), and to establish the monitcring system, as per para. 15 (item
(vii)(a)), before drawing the initial proceeds of the loan. All actions and
undertakings referred to above, includisig agreements and revised guidelines
and procedures, will have been implemented or in the process of implementation
prior to drawing of the remaining loan proceeds.
Operation and Maintenance of Public Investment
16.   The Government realizes the importance of providing for the adequate
maintenance of the capital stock and the development of a more systematic
approach to operation and maintenance (O & M), based on engineering standards
and economic criteria. 0 & M expenditures will be maintained at the 1982
levels in real terms for the program period. In order to upgrade 0 & M, the
Government (a) will initiate a program for awarding 0 & M to private
contractors where appropriate, prior to initial withdrawal from the loan, and
(b) prior to withdrawing the balance of the loan funds (i) will undertake a
comprehensive study to define the appropriate timing and intensity of
maintenance efforts for the major sectors, and (ii) will improve, update and
when necessary develop and adopt maintenance manuals for these sectors. The
Government will ensure the attainment of an adequate level of 0 & M
expenditures within the framework of a progressively declining consolidated
public sector deficit, expressed as a percentage of GNP.
Private Investment
17.   In the area of private investment the government has already taken a
number of policy actions to create and maintain an appropriate environment for
the efficient use of resources. These actions includes (i) the
liberalization of the trade regime which was begun under the auspices of the
Bank's Economic Recovery Loan and is now being continued under the program
supported by IMF; (ii) and privatization efforts which were begun under the
Government Corporations Reform Loan and are being continued; (iii) efforts to
open up the financial sector to foster greater competition and to strengthen
supervision and regulatory activities as provided in the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan.   While the Government restates its commitment to adhere to
the respective provisions of these operations, there are specific actions
which the Government will take under the proposed Debt Management Loan.
18.   Consistent with its debt strategy, the Government expects to reactivate
the debt-equity conversion program in the first quarter of 1990. The
operation of this program will be appropriately regulated, in a manner



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 8
consistent with monetary and fiscal objectives, in order to ensure that it
enhances business confidence and bolsters the objective of attracting
investment.
19.   The Government will undertake a comprehensive study of the environment
for private investment which will include:
(a)   a review of policies affecting foreign investment with the aim of
increasing the transparency of equity requirements and liberalizing
the rules affecting foreign investment;
(b)   a review of incentives provided under the Omnibus Investment Code
with a view towards making eligibility less discretionary and
revising the structure and level of incentives;
(c)   further streamlining of registration procedures for investors, and
simplifying and shortening of procedures for the availment of
incentives;
(d)   review of possible changes in BOI to stress its promotional rather
than regulatory role with the objective of increasing private
investment, both domestic and foreign, which is in the national
interest and which will promote growth and employment;
(e)   a review of royalty rates for technology transfer and other reforms
of the technology transfer registry system to increase the transfer
of technology.
The Government will submit the draft TOR for the study prior to initial
drawing on the loan. The Government would like to request assistance from the
Bank to undertake this study. Completion of the study according to agreed TOR
and discussion of its recommendations with the Bank will be completed prior to.
withdrawal of the balance of the loan.
Conclusion
20.   In the light of the Government's strong commitment to macroeconomic
stability, its significant undertakings in the areas of structural reform, and
its commitment to increase the quality and the level of investment in the
Philippines, and in the light of the importance of the debt buy-back componnat
of the debt financing plan for the Philippines, the Government would
.ippreciate that favorable consideration be given to its request for a US$200
million Debt Management Loan to be made available in timely fashion. The
Government of the Philippines will continue its close consultations with the
World Bank throughout the program and will implement to the best of its
ability the measures indicated in this letter. The Government expresses
appreciation to the World Bank for its continued support of the country's
reform program and for its critical role in the debt reduction operation
currently under way with the commercial banks.



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 8
21.   We believe that the debt reduction operation will contribute
substantially to our continued efforts to bring about material improvements in
the economic conditions of the Philippines and the living standards of its
people.
Yours sincerely,
Vicente Jayme,                            Jose B. Fernandez, Jr.
Secretary, Department of Finance    Governor, Central Bank of the Philippines



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
POLICY MATRIX
Actions Required for                         Actions Required for
Objectives                                    First Tranche                                 Second Tranche
I. APPROPRIATE MACROECONOMIC
POLICIES
(a)  Reduce size of                                                                Reduction of 1990 consolidated
consolidated public sector                                                    public sector deficit, as a fraction
deficit                                                                       of GNP, below its 1989 level
(b)  Maintain monetary policies                                                    Contirsued adherence to base money
consistent with growth and                                                    ceilings
inflation targets
(c)  Reduce size of current                                                        Reduction of 1990 current account
account deficit                                                               deficit, as a fraction of GNP, below
its 1989 level
II. IMPROVE PUBLIC INVESTMENT
EFFICIENCY
(a)  Improve efficiency of             Issuance of revised Implementing
procurement practices by          Rules and Regulations for PD 1594 or
amending bid procedures           order from the Office of the
President



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
Actions Required for                         Actions Required for
Objectives                                   First Tranche                                Second Tranche
(b)  Speed procurement process                                                    Completion of administrative action
by establishing standard
bid-to-award time limits
(c) Revise guidelines to speed                                                    Completion of administrative action
consultant hiring
(d)  Delineate scope and                                                          Completion of policy action in
responsibility for                                                           consultation with the Bank
internal audits
(e)  Simplify procedures to                                                       Specific Action Plan developed in
speed the release of                                                         consultation with the Bank
allocated budgetary funds
(f)  Update Medium-Term Public                                                    Completion of improved MTPIP
Investment Plan (MTPIP)
and integrate with Medium-
Term Technical Assistance
Program (MTTAP)
(g)  Improve monitoring of ODA-       Establish monitoring unit within
assisted projects                Committee on Official Development
Assistance (CODA)
(h)  Improve project                                                             Creation of Project Preparation
preparation capacity                                                         Facility within CODA
(i)  Integrate MTPIP with                                                        Development of overall financing
available donor financing                                                    plan for MTPIP



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Actions Required for                        Actions Required for
Objectives                                   First Tranche                                Second Tranche
III. ADEOUACY OF PUBLIC INVESTMENT
(a)  Maintain adequate level of                                                   Retain target of public investment
public investment                                                            at 5Z of GNP
IV. OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE OF
PUBLIC INVESTMENT
(a)  Maintain sufficient level                                                    Retain O&M expenditure at 1982
of O&M expenditure                                                           levels in real terms
(b)  Increase private sector          Initiate a program for awarding of
participation in O&M             O&M works to private contractors
activities
(c)  Institute a systematic           Agreement on scope of comprehensive         Completion of study according to
approach to O&M in line          O&M study                                   agreed TOR and adoption of requisite
agencies                                                                    maintenance manuals
V. PRIVATE INVESTMENT
(a)  Operate debt-equity                                                          Implement debt-equity conversion
conversion program under                                                     program
clear and transparent
rules
(b)  Enhance environment for          Submission of TOR for study to             Completion of study and discussion
private investment               include:  (i) foreign investment            of recommendations with the Bank
regime; (ii) fiscal incentives under
Omnibus Investment Code; (iii)
regulatory framework, including
options for the restructuring of
BOI; and (iv) technology transfer
arrangements



ANNEX III
35                                          Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENY OF SANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
September a0, 1989
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                                                      Amount (loe cancellotions)
Number       Year             Borrower                         Purpose                  Oink       IDA     undisbursod
Eighty-six loins and oix credita fully disbursed                                      ,s,SO.ss   106.19          -
1809        1960    Rep. of the Philippines    Medlur-Scale Irrigation                   82.98                  4.08
2040        1982    Rep. of the Philippines    Agrlc. Support Service.                   22.00                  4.48
2165        1092    Rep. of the Philippine.    National Fisheries Development             2.10                  0.27
217Z        1992    Rep. of the Phillppinso   Co_unal Irrigatlon                         61.00                 28.88
220         1968    Rep, of the Phillppines    Education VIII                            16.40                  6.20
2206        1968    Rep. of the Philippines    Water Supply and Sonitatlon               29.00                  4.78
2267        1983    Rep, of the Phillppines    Regiohal Citle, Development               47.00                 28.79
2360        1994    Rep. of the Phillppine.   Central Visayos Reglonal Development    24.97                    xl.6a
2418        1964    Rep. of the Philippines    Highways V                               102.00                 76.e0
2486        1994    Rep. of the Phillppine.    Municipol Development                     40.00                 81.06
2496        1986    Rep. of the Philippines    Telecom. Tech. Assistance                  4.00                  0.96
2570        1986    Central Bank of tho Phil.  Agrlcultural Credit                      100.00                  9.71
2676        1966    Rep. of the Phillppinos    Manila Water Distribution                 88.00                 20.90
2716        1988    Rep. of the Phillppines    Rural Roads II                            82.00                 76.81
2767        1967    Rep. of the Philippine.    Economic Recovery Loan                   800.00                100.00
282a        1987    Rep. of the Philippines    Provincial Ports                          82.00                 20.16
2948        1966    Rep. of the Philippines    Irrigation Operations Support             28.60                 20.31
2958        1986   Reap  of the Philippines    Progrom for Government Reform            200.00                125.00
26619       1969    Phillppine Nat'l  ill Co.    acon-Manito Geothermal Power            41.00                 38.36
2969-1      1966    Phil. Nat'l Power Corp.    Bacon-Manito Geothermal Power             59.00                 69.00
2974        1966    Rep. of the Philippines    Housing Sector                           160.00                 71.89
8086        1969    Rep. of the Philippines    SMI IV                                    60.00                 6e.00
8049        1969    Rep. of the Philippine.    Financial Sector                         800.00                250.00
8084        1969    Dev. Bank of the Phil.      Manilo Power Distribution                66.50                 65.60
3099        1969    Rep. of the Phillippines    Health Development                       70.10                 70.10
Totai                                                                     5,068.83   106.18    1,169.76
Of which has been repald                                               1,269.69     2.68
Total Now Outstanding                                                     8,768.69   102.66
Leeos   Amount sold                 81.85                                      -        -
Of which has been repaid    81.85                                       -        -
Total Now Held by Bank and IDA
8,788.69   106.49
Total Undisbureed                                                         1,169.75      -      1,169.76
/a The status of the projecto listed In Part A Is described in o seperate report on oll Sank/IDA-financed projecte
in execution, which Is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 80 and
October 81.



- 36 -                                         ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
F. STATEMENT OF IFC  NUSTMENTS
(A5 of 5eptme5r 50, Inv)
Investnpent   Fiscal                                                                     Loan    EquIty   Total
number      year                   ObiIgor                    Typ, of buolno           ---- (US2 millon) ---
67/283     1963/1973  Private Dov. Corp. of the Philppinp   s  Oevelopmnt finance         16.0     4.4    19.4
118/1098    19607/1989  Moraleo Socuritles Corporatlon          Utilltloe                  880.     4.0    40.8
157/899/1091  1970      Phil. Long Distance Tlephol   Co.       Utilitles                  C7.7     0.8   6586
158/218    1970/1972  Marlwass Manufacturing,o Inc             Cemnt a constr. mt.         0.8     0.4     1.2
186        1970     Paper Industries Corp. of the Phil.    Pulp a paper products          -      2.2     2.2
188/389    1971/1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation          Chmiclels A petroche.    8.2       2.1     0.3
207        1972      Marinduque Mlning & Industrial Corp.   Mining                      16.0      -     16.0
241        1978      Victoria* Chemical Corporation          Choicalo  A petrochem.    1.9       0.8     2.2
267        1974    FPilpinao Synthetic Flbor Corp.           textilas & fibers           1.6      -      1.6
272/464    1974/1979  Marie Christina Chm. Ind. Inc.            Iron & steel               1.6     0.6     2.2
283        1974     Republic Flour Mills Corp. (RFM)         Food a food procesting    1.2        -      1.2
800        1976     Phillppine Polynmids Industrial Corp.  Textiles A fiber              7.0      -      7.0
329      1978/1980  Philagro Edible Oils, tnc.               Coconut oIl A copra         2.6     0.2     2.8
379/768    1977/19U  Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                 Mining                     2.5     1.2     8.7
374        1977     Sormiento Industries, Inc.               Plywood                     .sS      -      386
423        1978      Cebu Shipyard A Eng. Works, Inc.        Ship r  a lring             2.1      -      2.1
489        1979      Oon*ral Milling Corporstlon             Food   food processing    4.0       1.1     6.1
481/886/   180/88/   PIS0 Leasing Corp. (All Asia capital)  Money A capital mrehot   11.1          0.5    11.6
1148        86/89
480        1980      Ventures In Industry & Susines          Mony & capital msrket        -      0.8     0.8
Enterprises, Inc.
519        1980      Consolidated Industrial Oases, Inc.    Cheiolale A ptroehem.    4.8          -      4.5
682        1961      Loons to Seven Corp. for S!SE           Money & capital market   16.6       0.6    19.1
553        1981     Phil. Assoc. Smelting A Refin. Corp.   Mining                         -      6.0     5.0
672        1961     Davao Union Cemsnt Corp.                 Comnt A comstr. met.    16.0         -     16.0
827        1982      NDC-Guthrie Plantations                 Pals oil                   11.0      -     11.0
841        1986     Pure Foods                               Food & food procesing        -      1.4     1.4
946        1988     Opt Agricultural Development Bank        Development finance          -      1.0     1.0
1051        1986     Philifund                                Money & capital mark e       -      4.2     4.2
1126        1969     Hmbrect and quiet                        Money & capital markets    -        2.4     2.4
Total Oross Comitmonts                                           220.0    82.7   252.7
Lose cancellations, terminations,                              118.7    16.8  185.6
repayments and *s l
Total CoU ltunts ed(  Hn ld by arc                                101pt    16n9   117 2
Total Undisburs d (Including p rtClep nCt  portion)                e9.a     2.4   e88 7



ANNEX IV
~EIPPIP~ - KEY ~t%CR0~CIO4ZC XPOICATOE~                                    Page  1  of  5
Actual                    Pr lii  Prel;                                 Projections
Key Indicators                1983      1984    1985    1986      1987     1988    1989      1990    1991      1992    1993    1994       1995    1996    1997    1998
COP C outa Rate                    1.0    -6.1    -4.3       1.4      4.7      6.4      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5       5       .6      6.6
GW Growth Rate                     1.2    -7.2    -4.1        1.9     5.9      6.8      7.0      7.0      6.4      6.1      6.7      6.7      6.7      6.6     f.6      6.7
W/Capita GCoth Rote              -1.3    -9.4    -t. 4      -0.5      3.6      4.5      4.S      6.2      3.9      3.7      4.2      4.2      4.2      4.1      4.2     4.3
Consumptin/Capita Crowtl  Rate     1.5    -3.1    -6.9    -2.4        5.4      4.5      0.6      3.8      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.1     4.1
Total DM l1/ (in US)            24294   24745   26396   28331    30052   29448   30t80   31932   33785    36206   37747   39466   41272   42936   45CSW    47733
DDl/fS2/                           214     256      317      350      295      249   214.5   199.5   185.3   173.4   160.4   148.4   137.1   126.2   :;--    109.5
\DID/QDP                           70       76       s0       92       87       75    66.5    61.3    56.5    53.0    48.3    44.2    40.5    36.8    -z.e             31.3
bt Service (in USS)              3019      2687    2571     3027    3624      aS5?    3795    3864    4094    4459    85o3    6490    6096    6349    66f              6754
d<%t Service/IQS                 26.6    27.8    30.9    37.4    35.6    30.0    26.8    24.1    22.1    21.4    24.9    24.4    20.2    18.7    17.2    15.5
Deb\ Service/CDP                  8.7       8.3     7.8      9.8    10.5       9.1      8.3      7.4      6.7      6.5      7.5      7.3      6.0      5.4      5.0     4.4
In tAb   115                      17.9    19.9    21.1    19.9    18.4    17.3    16.4    14.2    13.6    13.7    12.3    11.1                9.9      9.1     8.4      7.6
Interset/WP                       5.1      5.6      5.4      4.9      6.1      6.0      5.1      4.4      4.2      4.2      3.7      3.3      2.9      2.7     2.4      2.2
Cross InXwstaent/QDP             25.0    15.1    12.4    11.1    13.8         15.7    22.1    24.3    24.4    24.3    24.3    24.3    24.3    24.4    24 4    24.4
Domestic Lovinga/WDP              19.4    15.0    15.0    16.9    14.6    16.9    19.7    21.5    21.6    21.7    21.7    21.9    21.9    21.9    21.9    21.9
Mational Sa'ings/CDP              18.7    12.9    13.2    15.8    14.8    17.8    19.2    21.3    21.2    20.9    21.1    21.4    21.6    21.6    21.6    21.8
Marginal Nletonal Savings Rate  -95.9    93.1        6.7   154.8    -5.1    61.4    61.0    51.6    20.9    17.1    24.3    25.6    25.1    21.8    22.3    23.6
ICOR _3/                                                    -1.5    -1.2    -1.3    -1.3    -5.8          4.8      2.8      2.9      3.0      3.7      3.7     3.7      3.7
Government Reven*e/QDP            11.9    10.5    11.3    12.6    14.3    13.6    16.6    16.7    16.7    16.6    16.6    16.5    16.4    16.3   1.2    16.2
Governmnt Expend tures/GDP        13.8    12.4    13.1    17.5    17.1    16.4    19.5    16.6    18.1    17.6    17.6    17.7    17.2    17.2    17.2    17.3
Deficit (-) or Surlua (+)/CDP    -1.9    -1.8    -1.8    -4.9    -2.8    -2.8    -2.9    -2.0    -1.5    -1.0    -1.1    -1.2    -0.8    -0.9    -1.0    -1.1
Export Growth Rate                9.0       8.5    -7.4    21.8    -1.3    15.9    10.8    10.3    10.0            9.9      9.8    10.0    10.2    10.0    10.1    10.3
Expors/WDP                       19.3    22.3    22.5    25.8    24.3    26.5    25.2    26.1    26.9    27.6    28.6    29.6    30.6    31.6    32.6    33.8
Import Crowth Rate               11.8   -16.5   -23.1       12.9    26.5    28.5    20.2    12.8          9.7      9.5      9.5      9.6      9.7      9.7     9.8      9.9
IS.ore/WP                        21.8    19.4    15.5       17.3    20.9    25.3    27.3    28.9    29.7    30.6    31.4    32.3    33.3    34.3    35.3    36.5
Current Account (in US6)        -2748   -1268       -18      971    -498    -406   -1256    -1408    -1635   -2000   -2069    -2130   -2153    -2424    -2694    -2887                       1
Current AccountfaWP              -8.0    -3.9    -0.1        3.2    -1.4    -1.0    -2.8    -2.7    -2.7    -2.9    -2.6    -2.4    -2.1    -2.1    -::                -i.;
Term of Trade Index                       144.6   125.2   135.8   132.5   155.6    98.6    99.8   100.1   100.4   100.7   101.0   101.2   101.0   100.7   100.4
.1/ Debt outrtxnding and disburoed.
_2/ Iport. of goods and serviacA.
_3/ Five-yar averase, one year log.



PHILIPPINES - BALNCE OF PAY01S
(LIS11 milI ion  at Current Pr,ces)                                ANNEX  IV
Page 2 of 5
Actual            Prof im  Prolim.                                   Projections
1981     1984     19S5     1986     1987     1988     1989     1990     1991    1992      1993     1994     1995     1996      :997     1998
A.  Exports af Goods A NS         7513     7033    6864      7702     8065     9486    10507    12071    13937    16076    13512    21868    24688    28162    32178    36824
1. Merchandise (FOB)            5722     5391     4629     4842     5720     7074     7960      9328    10981    12B92    16081    17663   20707    23922    27663    32015
2. Non-Factor Serv ces          1791     1642    2235    2860       2345     2422     2546      2743     2956    8184      3430     3695    3981      4240     4516     4809
B.  Ioports of Goods A NS         9554     7222     5944    58S6      7861     9478    11543    13394    15367    17612    20172    2313V    26583    30328    34634    39593
1. Merchandise (FOB)            7946     6070    5111      5044     6737     8159    1ooo0    11573    13224   15064    17184    19615    22394    25405    28843    32771
2. Non-Factor Services          1606     1142      833      824     1124      1319     1538     1821     2144     2528     2988     3524     4189     4923     5792     6822
C.  Resource Balance             -2041     -179      920     1834      204        8    -1086   -1328   -1430   -1537    -1660   -1781   -1895   -2165   -2456    -2768
D.   Net Factor Income            -527    -1475   -1317    -1804    -221    -1208   -1086    -1020   -1216   -1560   -1603   -1650   -1677    -1811    -1936   -1981
1. Factor Receipts              1070      984     1058      931     1109     1194    1536       1595    1647    1711       1754     1798     1846     1889     1948    2014
2. Factor Pay_ente              1597     2459     2370    2235      2330    2397      2622      2615    2863    3271       3356     3446    3523      3700     3885     3994
(interest pay_mnts)          2186     1927     1755     1615     1873     2192    2317      2267     2480    2851      2900      2951    2982      3112     3244     3297
E.  NMt Current Transfers          825      118      172      285      822      789      866       985     1011    1097      1194     1301     1420     1551     1698     1862
1. Current Recipts               828      119      181      239      324      791      870       940     1016    1102      1199     1506     1425     1556     1703     1867
a. workers' remittances       284       59      111      163      211      388      435      490       8S0     619       699      789      890     1003     1130     1273
b. other current tras.         74       60       70       76      113      403      435      450       463     488       499      517      535      554      573      593
2. Current Paymnts                 a        1        9        4        2        2        4         5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5        S
F.  Curret Account Balance    -2061    -1268         -18      971    -496       -406   -1266    -1408   -1l85   -2000   -2069    -2130   -2153    -2424   -2694    -2887
0.  Lang-Term Capital Inflow      lS03      S80    3094      182       612      804      1571     2275    2804    2312       2402     2688    3068      2654     3017     3663
1. Direct Investment             172        9       12      127      807      986      757      891      10      1077      118l    1321      1421     1321     1424     1556
2. Official Capital Grant.                                                      0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
8. Net LT Loens (8  data)       1494      994    1014       402      -61       64      814      1384    1738    1I38       1269     1367     1647     1338     1593    2107
a. Diburemnta                2212  1613    1689    1511          iN       1372     2115     2664       6      2g2      4165      4812    4636      4434    4856      5428
b. Repa_ mentc                718      818      l26     1110     1401     1808    1301      1280      11 i     1467    2896      8446    2989    3101       3264     3321
4. Other LT Icie (net)          -168     -495    2068    8e8         a86     -246        0        0         a       0         0        0        0        0        0        0
08



IILIPPD    - 8ALAUCE OF PAYMB4TS (cnt'd)                            ANNEX  IV
(USI millions at Current Pries)                                    Page  3  of  5
Actual           Prelim  Prelim.                                   Proe;ctions
1981    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990           991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
H.  .Total Other Item  (net)      226     1144   -3824   -1172    -382    -196         1E8     192    -U2        482      a86      300      89      887      936      628
1. Not Short Term Capital       718     1105   -3867   -1163    -283    -205         22       o6       70      148      162      188     236      304      364      444
2. Capital Flew. N.E.I.           0        0        0       0        0    -479       161      136    -190      259      224      145    -147      583      572      184
8. Error. and Omissi.e         -487       39      643      -9      -99      488       0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0
I.  Chang" in Not  eserves        332    -184       148   -2481      268    -202    -498   -1059   -1048    -713    -719    -858   -1005   -1116   -1259   -1403
1. NHt Credit from the Df       105    -185      279      137       21    -102       128    -187      -98      -50      -S8     -93    -125    -136    -136    -136
2. Other Reserve Change         227        1    -131   -1288       247    -100    -621    -922    -955    -663    -661    -765    -880    -980   -1123   -1267
(- indicates inereme)
Shares of CDP (Current 153):
1. Reource Balanc                -5.3    -0.6      2.8      6.0      0.6      0.0    -2.3    -2.5    -2.4    -2.2    -2.1    -2.0    -1.9    -1.9    -1.8    -1.8
2. Total Interest Paymnto                                                     4.2      4.1      3.5      3.5     3.6      3.2      2.8     2.5      2.3      2.1      1.9
8. Curre-4 Acoc-- t Bblance      -5.3    -3.9    -0.1        3.2    -1.4    -1.0    -2.8    -2.7    -2.7    -2.9    -2.6    -2.4    -2.1    -2.1    -2.0    -1.9
4. LT Capital Inflow (line 0)     3.9      1.0      9.4     4.3      1.8      2.1      3.4      4.4      4.7     3.4      3.1      3.0     3.0      2.3      2.3      2.4
S. Nat Credit from the DF         0.8    -0.6       0 8     0.4      0.1    -0.3       0.8    -0.S    -0.2    -0.1    -0.1    -0.1    -0.1    -0.1    -0.1    -0.1
Memorandum Item:
CDP (Hi ll. of Current US3I)    88646   39883   34S63   32367   32928   39228   45654   52084   59766   68316   78075   39248  102002  116604   133325  152478
Foreign Exchunge Rerves:
1. Int'l. Reserves (IFS l1d)     2066      602      615    1728      968    1003       --                                                           ---D8--            --
2. Cold (end yr Landon price)     659      242      438     883    1344    1166        -
8. Cros Reserves inel. Cold      2725      844    1098    2611    2312    2169         -
4. Croo Res. in Months, Lort        3        1        2       4        3        2      -
Exchane Rates  LU/1.111):
1. Nam. Off. X-Rte (IFS rh)         8       17       19      20       21       21      -                                                                     ---      ---       _     _ 
2. Ra I Eff. X-Rate  n 198D      10        69       98      76       70       68      -       ----                                                                   --                  0
S. X-te for GW  Conversion          8       17       19      20       21       21                                -                                  ---      ---      -



PHLIPPIIES - PRFJOT    FOREIGN DOWKF R           _iT                            A     EX   IV
(USS millions at. Current Prices)                                    Page  4  of  5
18-87       198890      1991-93
Crem  Disbursesents
M'ulti lateral                           1137        25B9        3170
ef which: mmR                           714        1732        1622
Bi lateral                               1422        3047        8408
Privote                                  1467        -246         176
IMF Purchases                             751         574         270
Financing Cap                               0         760        1176
Total a                             4776        6725       10200
Not Disbursemnts
Mtulti lateral                            516        l514        1910
of wh i ch: IBM                         216         858         670
Bilateral                                 775        3008        4210
Privant8 32                                         -2695       -2642
DF Purchases                              -91        -116        -201
Financing Cap                               0         760        1176
Total a                             12         2472        448A
a Total excludes private non-guaranteed LT and not short-term capital.
0



- i-5w tg5
Di laftrev: 6d.eduted                        68?    1919
Projected                          39    1197
Pei _t:   sceduled                          fl       a
Projected                        9889    1107
Totai   Sded led                         SW       7339
Project"                         356      27
in"erStPsasfito a
lti lateral                                 1263    170?
of adi: DD                                  912    112
I la"ral                                     is15    1079
Pri wat.                                    8681     4076
Total                                    S047    6661
1968    1989    1990      191    1992    199        1 1994    19S
WAYRti;e                                            -
Interewt/XCS                       0.14    0.15      0.1S     0.13    0.13    0.12      0.11     0.10
PMRD/)=S                            8.47     3.16    2.88     2.64    2.46    2.20       1."9    1.81
Net Di-bur-eeunte/Inter-ut          0.02    0.683    1.05     1.01     0.63    0.65     0.67     0.75
Hot Traneferf/MP                   -0.04   -0.01     0.00     0.00   -0.01   -0.01    -0.01    -0.01
* Excluding private non-guaranteed lona term debt and short-ter, capital.
me After rescheduling.



