Dom
The Wo
FOR OFF&CL
Psaort No. 9941
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1379-NEP)
OCTOBER 3, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Name of Currency:        Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Rate of Exchange:        Signing (1983) US$1.00 = Rs. 14.9
Completion year US$1.00 = Rs. 34.8
GLOSSARY
DCA        -   Development Credit Agreement
HMGN       -   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
IDA        -   International Development Association
MOF        -   Ministry of Finance
PCR        -   Project Completion Report
TA         -   Technical Assistance
UNDP       -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID      -   United States Agency for International Development
NEPAL FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operatons Evaluation
October 3, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nepal - Second
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1379-NEP)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Nepal - Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1379-NEP)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thb docomen hs a restricted dLstrtbutfou and may be used by recipients oy In the perfonnace of their oMcal duties.
contentsmay not otherwbe be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1379-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pase No.
PREFACE ......................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................                                              iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE ...............
Project Identity .............................................
Background ................................................1
Project Objectives and Description ...........................                                                  2
Project Design ...............................................                                                  2
Institutional Arrangements ...................................                                                  3
Overall Implementation .......................................                                                  3
Project Results ..............................................                                                  4
Compliance with Legal Undertakings ...........................                                                  5
Project Sustainability .......................................                                                  7
IDA's Performance ............................................                                                  7
Borrower Performance .........................................                                                  8
Project Relationship .........................................                                                  8
Consulting Services ...........................................                                                 8
Project Documentation and Data .                                                                                8
Lessons Learned ..............................................                                                  8
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE....                                                  11
Introduction .................................................                                                11
Report .......................................................                                                11
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...........................                                                13
3.1  Related IDA Credits .....................................                                                13
3.2  Project Timetable .......................................                                                13
3.3  Credit Disbursements ....................................                                                14
3.4  Project Costs and Financing .............................                                                15
3.5  Project Resulta .........................................                                                16
3.6  Status of Covenants .....................................                                                17
3.7  Use of IDA Resources ....................................                                                17
ANNEXES
1:  Description of Subprojects and the Results ...............                                                19
2:  Subprojects Financed by Eligible Category ................                                                27
3:  Follow-up Investment and Investment Support ..............                                                29
4:  Subprojects Financed by Sector ...........................                                                31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1379-NEP)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) is for the Second Technical
Assistance Project in Nepal for which a Credit in the amount of US$6.0
million (SDR 5.6 million) was approved on June 2, 1983. The original
closing date was December 31, 1987, but was extended three times. The
Credit closed on December 31, 1990, and the last disbursement was made on
April 4, 1991.
Preparation of this PCR was coordinated by the Technical Assistance
Unit of the Asia Technical Department on behalf of the Infrastructure
Operations Division, Country Department I. Part IL ;f the PCR was prepared
by the Borrower after receiving Parts I and III.
Preliminary work on the PCR commenced during an IDA mission to Nepal
in October 1988 and was followed up by a PCR mission in April 1991. The
Report is based inter alia on the President's Report (which includes a
technical annex in lieu of a Staff Appraisal Report); Development Credit
Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower;
internal memoranda and interviews with individual Task Managers.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1379-NEP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.          The immediate objective of the Second Technical Assistance
Project was to assist His Majesty's Government of Nepal in the identifica-
tion, preparation and implementation of high priority projects suitable for
IDA or other external financing. Its long-term objective was to contribute
to a strengthening of the capacity and capability of participating institu-
tions to implement the Government's development program (paras 1.4 and 1.6).
The Credit was designed to provide an overall amount of financing agreed to
between the Government and IDA for a number of subprojects with flexibility
to delete and substitute subprojects at the "working level" as the need
arose.
Implementation Experience
2.          The project provided financing for the implementation of 15
discrete subprojects which supported feasibility studies and other allied
activities necessary for the preparation of projects suitable for external
financing. It also financed staff training programs and other forms of
technical assistance designed to strengthen institutions responsible for
project planning and implementation. The closing date was delayed three
years.  Once approved, subprojects were implemented more efficiently than
under the first Technical Assistance (TA) Project (Credit 659-NEP); however,
delays occurred in identifying subprojects for financing. The most impor-
tant reason was the availability of UNDP grant funding as a preferred
alternative source of TA financing. There were also delays (a) in identi-
fying and agreeing on the list of priority studies to be financed under the
Credit; (b) because of the general lack of awareness by line ministries on
how to access a Credit handled by the Ministry of Finance; and (c) in the
negotiations wiih consultants for subproject implementation (para 1.12).
However, all subprojects were satisfactorily completed by the extended
closing date of December 31, 1990.
Results
3.          The project generated approximately US$369 million of follow-up
investments. In particular, it provided substantial support to activities
associat3d with the development of Nepal's hvdropower subsector based on the
Master Plan -udy for the utilization of the water resources of the Kosi
River Basin, thus facilitating the identification and implementation of the
Arun III Hydroelectric Power Project (para 1.15). It had a similar impact
on Nepal's water supply sector through the financing of two significant
studies. The first, for the West and Central Regions of the country, has



- iv -
provided data for the formulation of 65 new rural water supply schemes. The
second resulted in the formulation of a Urban Drainage Master Plan for
Greater Kathmandu. These studies are expected to generate significant
investments (paras 1.16-1.17). Additionally, the project assisted in
strengthening capacity by promoting the development of a standardized
contract for the hiring of consultants which has helped to speed up the
approval and implementation of consultancy services contracts (para 1.20).
Pre-investment activities were heavily favored over institutional develop-
ment by 92% to 8%. The infrastructure sector received 62% of the Credit.
Agriculture received 19% and energy received 16%. The energy sector was
also supported by many of the infrastructure subprojects. Population and
human resources received only 3% of the Credit's resources.
Sustainability
4.          The benefits realized from the subprojects financed under the
Credit are manifested through follow-up investments which are making a
substaniial contribution to Nepal's economic development. Of particular
significance is the project's contribution to the development of the coun-
try's hydropower subsector and the potential benefits expected from future
investments in its water supply and sewerage sector.
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.          There are a number of important lessons to be learned as a
result of the implementation of this project. Once identified, subprojects
have experienced speedier implementation as compared to the first TA Credit;
however, the second Credit faced delays in subproiect identification. In
this regard, attention in the design of future TA credits should be focused
on responding to the Government's demand for the type of TA appropriate
under reimbursable credits (para 1.33) and building in regular reporting to
line ministries about the status and availability of TA funds (para 1.38).
Secondly, implementation delays experienced while the Government searched
for alternative sources of TA funding on a grant basis suggests that the
Bank Group might consider providing grant funding for certain kinds of TA as
an additional tool in its country lending strategy (para 1.33). There also
appears to be a need for IDA to focus on the value it attaches to Borrowers
meeting their obligations under dated covenants as well as the appropriate-
ness of the covenants themselves.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REPORT
(CREDIT 1379-NEP)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name                  : Second Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number         : 1379 - NEP
RVP Unit              : Asia Region
Country               : Kingdom of Nepal
Sector                : Technical Assistance
Background
1.1        Nepal has been the recipient of considerable bilateral and
multilateral technical assistance (TA) from a number of sources including
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United States Agency
for International Development, Canada, Germany and IDA. TA commitments to
the country, which amounted to approximately US$66 million in 1975/76, rose
substantially to nearly US$120 million in 1981. Approximately half of the
TA commitments to Nepal were channeled into agriculture and ns' ral re-
sources.  Significant commitments were also made to general development
planning, health and population.
1.2        In 1976, IDA approved a Credit of US$3.0 million for the first
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 659-NEP) to assist His Majesty's
Government of Nepal (HMGN) through tne provision of financing for the
preparation of feasibility studies as well as for design and engineering
work for future projects. This assistance was directed towards helping HMGN
develop a pipeline of high priority projects in the agriculture, agro-
industry and industrial sectors which were essential prerequisites in the
country's development program and suitable for international financing. The
objective of IDA's assistance was to help the HMGN fully utilize the aid
available to it through bilateral and multilateral sources. The Credit also
supported the strengthening of institutions responsible for project prepara-
tion and implementation through the provision of consultant services and
training.
1.3        The Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first free-standing TA
to Nepal' reported that the Credit generated a healthy project pipeline
resulting in around US$100 million of follow-up IDA investment while sup-
porting a further US$50 million of such IDA investment. Less success was
reported in the development of local institutional capacity because, among
other reasons, the terms of reference for expatriate consultants emphasized
1/ Report No. 5935 dated November 25, 1985.



completion of a particular assignment (e.g., feasibility studies) instead.
After full commitment of funds under Credit 659-NEP in early 1982, the
Government requested IDA assistance in the preparation of a follow-up TA
credit on the grounds that TA grant funding from traditional sources such as
UNDP had been greatly reduced. However, shortly after Credit 1379-NEP was
approved, UNDP's financ!al picture brightened and more grant funding became
available (para 1.12).
Prolect Objectives and Description
1.4        Proiect Objectives:  Credit 1379-NEP was timed as a logical
follow-up to Credit 659-NEP, serving a similar purpose. Its immediate
objective was to assist HMGN in the identification, preparation and imple-
mentation of high priority projects for international financing. A longer
term objective remained to strengthen the capacity and capability of par-
ticipating institutions to implement the Government's development program.
1.5        Project Description:  The project provided HMGN with an assured
flexible source of TA financing whenever grant financing was not readily
available. In this context, a recourse to IDA firancing permitted more
expeditious action. The multi-sectoral project comprised the following 15
subprojects (Annex 1 provides a detailed description).
1. Design of Karnali Bridge
2. Water Resources Adviser (Legal Services)
3. Panel of Experts for Hydroelectric Projects
4. Population Project Preparation
5. Population Studies
6. Terai Agricultural Development Project Study
7. Administration and Management Study of the Institute of
Agricultural and Animal Sciences, Rampur
8. Arun III Access Road Survey (Dhankuta-Khandbari)
9. Least Cost Energy Generation Expansion
Plan (1986-2000)
10. Detail Design for Stage II of Sunsari
Morang Irrigation Project
11. Establishment of Computer Training Facility at The Tribhuvan
University Institute of Engineering
12. Arun III Access Road Detailed Engineering
13. West and Central Development Regions Water
Supply Study
14. Greater Kathmandu Water Drainage Master Plan Study
15. Predesign Investigation for Arun III
Hydropower Project
Proiect Design
1.6        Like its predecessor (Credit 659-NEP), Credit 1379-NEP was
primarily intended to help HMGN to continue developing a pipeline of
projects suitable for IDA or other external financing through the prepara-
tion of feasibility studies, detailed design and engineering work. As such,
it provided a line of credit which permitted HMGN to request IDA t.llocations
for specific studies or subprojects on an as needed basis if they met
certain mutually agreed criteria. Accordingly, a subproject was eligible



- 3 -
for financing provided it was of high priority in the Borrower's development
plans aud belonged to one of the following categories:
(a) a feasibility study or other investigation required for
preparing projects suitable for financing by IDA or
other external financing agencies (with priority given
to project rzat1d studies believed likely to be suit-
able for consi -ation for financing by IDA);
(b) technical assistance or staff training programs de-
signed to strengthen institutions in Nepal responsible
for project planning and implementation; or
(c) a study to provide information required for the selec-
tion of specific projects for implementation, or for
improvement of overall economic planning.
1.7        It was also a requirement that a subproject should have no equally
suitable grant financing available from UNDP or other external financing
agencies. In short, Credit 1379-NEP was designed to provide flexibility and
responsiveness to meet the critical needs of HMGN. It also permitted prompt
action in collaboration with IDA to meet those needs.
Institutional Arrangements
1.8        The Ministry of Finance (MOF) was responsible for satisfying the
covenants u-ier the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), approving the
subproject requests submitted by line ministries, and for overall project
coordination. MOP appointed a Project Coordinator who monitored the 15
subprojects approved under the Credit, reported on their status, and pro-
vided executing agencies with advice on the procurement of consultant
services and related equipment as well as on disbursement procedures.
1.9        Line ministries were responsible for submitting subproject
proposals for financing to MOF who reviewed them in the context of the
Government's priorities before submitting them to IDA for final approval.
Additionally, line ministries were responsible for the selection and employ-
ment of consultants, supervision of their work and the maintenance of
subproject accounts. They were also responsible for the submission of
quarterly reports to the Project Coordinator in MOF covering disbursements
and the status of subproject execution.
Overall Implementation
1.10       Credit 1379-NEP was approved on June 2, 1983, and signed oh
September 1, 1983. The effectiveness date of November 29, 1983 was extended
to provide HMGN with more time to fulfill the requirement of appointing a
Project Coordinator and to provide a legal opinion on the validity of the
DCA. The Credit was declared effective on December 27, 1983 on the satis-
factory fulfillment of those conditions.
1.11       Although implementation of individual subprojects proceeded
relatively efficiently after each approval, the strategy to use the Credit
as a source of last resort caused it to be extended three times (from
December 31, 1987 to December 31, 1990). At final extension of the Credit



from December 31, 1989 to December 31, 1990, five subrrojects were in their
final stages of completioa and the contract for subproject 13 (a study of
the West and Central D3velopment Regions Water Supply) had just been awarded
with its completion scheduled for the last quarter of calendar 1990.
1.12       The project suffered from implementation delays fcr a number of
reasons not anticipated at the design stage. The most important of these
was the unexpected availability of UNDP grant funding for TA financing that
had been denressed a few years before. HMGN's recourse to UNDP funds
resulted in gaps between subproject approvals under the TA Credit. Second,
it appears that rotatitng officials in line ministries were not always aware
of the Credit. Third, the recruitment of consultants, although faster than
under the first Credit, still proceeded slowly in some cases--mostly at the
negotiation stage. It should be noted tlhat unlike TA credits that support
pteparatory work arsociated with a single project, multi-sectoral technical
assistance credits necessarily take up more time for the preparation and
submission of discrete subproject proposals in line with IDA's requirements.
Future credits of this type should build in a longer implementation time to
accommodate this unique feature of the multi-sectoral credit.
1.13       It may be noted that Credit 1379-NEP achieved some success in its
objective of addressing some of the shortcomings of its predecessor. In
particular, it attempted to resolve the difficulties encountered because of
varying procurement and contracting procedures prevalent for the use of
consulting services by different. executing agencies. Towards this end, the
Government was able to draft -nd implement a standardized contract for the
hiring of consultants that has helped rationalize this procedure and is
helping speed up the approval and implementation of consultancy services
contracts.
Proiect Results
1.14       The success of the project in meeting its pre-investment objective
can be seen from the fact that eleven subprojects were approved totalling
approximately SDR 4.8 million or about 92% of available Credit funding for
the purposes of pre-investment. These subprojects are listed in Annex 2
(Items 1 through 11).
1.15       In line with the project's primary objective, project success is
measurable in terms of the investments generated by the subprojects that
were financed. It is estimated that approximately US$369 million of follow-
ap investments and US$154 million of investment support have resulted from
these subprojects representing an appreciable achievement for a free-
standing TA project (Annex 3). A sector analysis of the 15 subprojects
indicates a major concentration (62% or about SDR 3.3 million) of the
resources was associated with the development of Nepal's infrastructure of
which 84% of the infrastructure resources also supported the energy sector.
Seven subprojects were associated directly or indirectly with the energy
sector (see Annex 4: Subprojects #1, #2, #3, #8, #9, #12 and #15). Sub-
project #1 was aimed at establishing the final design specifications for the
Karnali River Bridge leading to the site for the proposed Chisapani hydro-
power project for which the feasibility study was financed under Credit
1452-NEP. Subprojects #8 and #12 facilitated the preparation of IDA invest-
ment credit (Cr. 2029-NEP) of US$32.8 million in 1989 for the construction
of the Arun III Access Road. Cost increases occurred in the implementation



- 5 -
of subproject #12 because of an underestimation of the costs of constructing
the Arun III Access Road resulting from changes made in its alignment, an
unrealistic timetable of 2-1/2 years for its completion, followed by the
invitation of bids at an inappropriate time.2  To address this problem, HMGI;
decided to combine the road project and the proposed hydro project as a
single operation. Subprojects #9 and #15 provided the rationale and pre-
design investigation for the Arun III power project itself, and Subproject
#3 provided an independent review of the feasibility of several other
hydroelectric projects.  Subproject #2 provided legal advice on water
resources.
1.16       Credit 1379-NEP has also had an impact on the water supply sector
through the financing of two significant studies. The first study for the
West and Central Development Regions of the country (Subproject #'3) pro-
vided useful data needed for the formulation of about 65 new ruraL water
supply schemes that have been identified. UNDP has in parallel financed a
study covering the rehabilitation of existing rural water schemes. It is
envisaged that both these proposals would be combined in the formulation of
an investment project in the next five year lending cycle with a likely IDA
input of about US$28 million. The second study covers the formulation of an
Urban Drainage Master Plan for Greater Kathmandu (Subproject #14) which was
completed in September 1990. It provides Kathmandu with a 15-year sectoral
development program of which the first five-year investment plan envisages
an outlay of about US$51 million.
1.17      u.,der the Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation
Project, approved in May 1991 (Credit 2239-NEP), a portion (about US$3.4
million) of the investment outlay contemplated under the first five-year
priority investment plan was earmarked for the rehabilitation of two
existing sewage treatment plants, repair of a large pumping main, rehabili-
tation of a pumping station and interception of existing combined sewers and
sewer network rehabilitation. A further US$2.7 million or so of funds from
this project would also be used to finance the construction of a major sewer
serving Kathmandu. The above mentioned investments were also identified
under the UNDP-funded and World Bank executed Service Improvement and
Management Support Project No. NEP/88/004.
1.18       Institutional development subprojects were not in demand under
this reimbursable Credit. Only about 8% (approximately SDR 450,000) of the
Credit went toward this objective (Annex 2).
Compliance with Legal Undertakings
1.19       Apart from covenants on selection criteria for subprojects and
reporting requirements, the DCA incorporated the following two undertakings:
(a) The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1984, prepare
and furnish to IDA for its review and comments, a draft
standard contract for the employment by the Borrower of
individual consultants and consulting firms, and, thereafter,
2/ Tenders were called when the Trade and Transit Treaty with India had
expired and timely access to Nepal through India was not assured.



-6-
taking into account the Association's comments, if any,
utilize such standard contract in the hiring of consultants'
services (Section 4.06 of the DCA); and
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1984, prepare
and furnish to IDA for its review and comments, a program to
strengthen the local consulting industry of Nepal, including
a survey of existing firms, development of guidelines for
selection and use of local consultants, establishment of a
consultants' registry, training, seminars and conferences,
and, thereafter, carry out such program taking into account
IDA's comments, if any (Section 4.07 of the DCA).
1.20       The objective of the first covenant was to strengthen the overall
administration of TA by HMGN based on the lessons learned in the execution
of the first TA Credit *:o Nepal (Credit 659-NEP) where different procedures
used by various agencies for procuring and contracting of consulting ser-
vices made TA administration cumbersome.  HMGN's slow compliance with this
covenant resulted from a continuous review of the draft document by dif-
ferent Government agencies. Hence these delays were largely bureaucratic
and stemmed from each agency's desire to ensure a full review of the condi-
tions of the contract ';is-a-vis their own concerns. The model contract is
now available and is being put to use whenever HMGN needs to hire consultant
services. It is an important achievement under this project.
1.21       As agreed by both HMGN and IDA, the DCA was amended to remove the
second covenant referred to above which entailed the conducting of a survey
to strengthen the local consulting industry. The reason was that the Under
Secretary's office within the MOF, serving as the Technical Assistance
Coordinator, was not experienced or set up to recruit and supervise consul-
tants. MOF did in fact make a strong effort. They advertised twice in the
local papers for firms to express interest but there were no serious re-
sponses. Another reason the covenant was eventually removed was the fear
that if MOF selected a local consulting firm to set the groundwork for
strengthening the domestic consulting industry, it may have led to the
perception by other firms of biased judgment. The experience of other
countries suggests that the strengthening of local firms must originate
within the group of consulting firms themselves who must press for aid from
the Government, especially when there may be no particular impetus in
Government to strengthen an irdependent, autonomous consulting industry.
1.22       Finally, in reviewing IDA's legal requirements prescribed for this
project, the audit covenant (Section 4.05 of the DCA) does not seem to be
suited to the needs of free-standing multi-sectoral credits. Such credits
provide for numerous individual subprojects to be implemented against
separate consulting services contracts. Payment is made directly by IDA for
services performed or goods procured under signed consultancy services
contracts against the presentation of stipulated documentation. In such a
context, the need for the Government to provide separate audits for each
subproject would seem to be redundant, and management may wish to give
consideration to redesigning this legal requirement to meet the unique
situation of such credits.



-7-
Proiect Sustainability
1.23       Overall the technical assistance provided to HMGN under the
individual subproje2ts of Credit 1379-NEP has contributed to substantial
follow-up investments amounting to about US$369 million. Particular mention
is made of the studies commissioned towards the realization of the Arun III
Hydroelectric Power Project. In addition to the detailed engineering work
for the Karnali River Bridge (Subproject #1) and studies conducted for the
construction of the Arun III Access Road (Subprojects #8 & #12), activities
which were linked to expediting the implementation of the Arun III Hydro-
power Project, Credit 1379-NEP also assisted in the predesign investigation
work associated with the hydropower project itself (Subproject #15).
Similar sustainable benefits from this project derive from subproject #14
which has provided Nepal with a Water Drainage Master Plan as a basis for
future investments in this sector. However, not all subprojects intended to
lead to IDA follow-up investment did so--notably Subprojects #4 and #5
(Population Project Preparation and Population Studies, respectively).
Although no direct IDA investments followed from these two subprojects,
Nepal was the recipient of bilateral and multilateral assistance in the
population sector from other sources to whom these studies were available.
The computer training facility set up under Subproject #11 for Tribhuvan
University Institute of Engineering is clearly providing long-term benefits
to the University.
IDA's Performance
1.24       Flexibility provided in the design of this project had many
obvious advantages. For example, it permitted HMGN to respond to new,
stringent requirements by IDA and other donors relating to environmental
issues. However, it also had some shortcomings. Because the Credit was not
tightly programmed, there were gaps between subproject approvals. The
inclusion of subprojects shortly before a closing date resulted in exten-
sions of the closing date to cover disbursements. Designers of future
credits may need to decide whether to sacrifice flexibility for a more
specific program geared to disburse within the typical time period or to
retain flexibility to finance TA as an unexpected urgent need and build in a
longer disbursement period.
1.25       IDA's  performance under the project met required standards.
Project supervision was effective, timely and carried out in a satisfactory
manner. Every effort was made to accommodate the Borrower in the selection
of subprojects as well as to provide the Borrower with assistance in meeting
contractual obligations.
1.26       In regard to Subproject #2 (Water Resources Adviser-Legal Ser-
vices), it is questionable that IDA attached a high priority to this sub-
project as no task manager or managing division was given or assumed respon-
sibility for the technical oversight of this subproject. There is no record
of any technical supervision (the overall Task Manager for the Credit in the
TA Unit did check payments against the contract and did visit the project
office to ascertain that there were no administrative problems) and no
record of an IDA counterpart assigned to follow-up the impact this sub-
pro.ect might have had, although the issue was raised.



-8
Borrower Performance
1.27       It is clear that with the UNDP resources available as grant aid
for technical assistance, the Bank Group's soft window was used as an option
of last resort. The Borrower's decision to give preference to the use of
UNDP funds over the IDA line of credit affected its performance under the
Credit and was one of the major reasons for delays between subproject
approvals. In this context, it has been suggested elsewhere in this PCR
that one of the ways by which this could be averted in the future is for IDA
to look into the feasibility of providing its own grant funding for certain
kinds of technical assistance (see paragraph 1.33).
Project Relationship
1.28       IDA's relationship with the project executing agency were excel-
lent at all times.  The good rapport the TA Unit had with the HMGN and toe
Technical Assistance Coordinator in the MOF contributed to the resolution of
a number of project related issues, thus helping to expedite project imrle-
mentation.
Consulting Services
1.29       Virtually the entire TA Credit was implemented through consulting
services contracts, both foreign and local. The consultants performed
satisfactorily and responded well to changes in direction under several of
the subprojects. The services t-re heavily output- or task-centered (see
para 1.33).
Project Documentation and Data
1.30       The DCA provided good and relevant subproject criteria eligibility
to guide HMGN. However, the covenants relating to strengthening the con-
sulting industry and developing a standard contract may have enjoyed faster
and better results if handled under different mechanisms (see paras
1.34-1.35). The covenant relating to obtaining audit certificates required
the standard IDA procedures which do not address the unique situation of a
free-standing, multi-sectoral credit with numerous, discrete subprojects
(see para 1.22).
Lessons Learned
1.3;       Consideration needs to be given to the question of project
execution delays. Two facets of this issue deserve attention. The first
concerns the time taken in subproject identification, development and
implementation which accounted for some part of the delay in project pro-
cessing. The second relates more broadly to the Government's exercising its
option to use grant funding for technical assistance instead of utilizing
the reimbursable funding available under the IDA Credit.
1.32       It is clear from the records that the Credit was conceived of as
providing a source of funding for technical assistance because of the non-
availability of UNDP grant funds at that time. It provided "an assured and
flexible source of financing for technical assistance" and was modeled on
the concept of an "umbrella" project made popular by UNDP in Burma. The
idea is that one overall funding package is approved that covers broadly



- 9 -
identified needs that may be separately identified and approved at the
working level as needed. In support of this approach, agreed eligibility
criteria were established to facilitate subproject selection. The illustra-
tive list of subprojects identified in the agricultural sector as being high
priority were not the subprojects actually financed. Priorities changed and
the project had enough flexibility to be able to finance subprojects not
initially envisaged. The implementation delays resulted partly from this
change of emphasis and were a trade off for the flexibility provided in the
selection of new subprojects. The situation might have been averted if the
subprojects to be financed had been more closely tied to the lending program
downstream. However, it is important to keep the flexibility to respond
rapidly to environmental or cultural issues, or to natural disasters.
1.33       The Bank Group might rethink the purposes of TA provided under a
loan/credit arrangement. Governments view these as investment because they
must be paid back albeit at minimal handling/interest charges. Therefore,
they expect to see a tangible rate of return--i.e., a product from their
investment. Reimbursable, multi-sectoral TA credits might be more usefully
oriented towards output-centered TA. That is, they would provide expertise
to accomplish assignments such as specific project preparation or detailed
engineering and design or master plans. It might be more realistic to
concentrate on this output although some transfer of skills would certainly
occur in the execution of the assignment. It appears that the attempt to
serve two masters (i.e., pre-investment and institutional development)
results in one overriding the other. Under these reimbursable credits, the
need to produce the product supersedes. The goals of transfer of skills,
institutional development, building capacity, policy advice, restructuring
etc., should probably be addressed separately and as a specific goal not
coupled with other goals. Also, these objectives will receive more focus
from governments if they are provided on a grant basis. In order for the
Bank Group to encourage these objectives and to demonstrate its serious
desire that governments should focus on these important "non-product" goals,
the Bank Group is justified in considering an internal grant facility. The
Bank Group needs to acknowledge that the very reasons a governmeat may need
institutional development technical assistance are the same reasons that
make it virtually impossible for a government to execute the effort.
Therefor,, it is recommended that the Bank Group execute the work initially
and follow a careful plan to turn over more and more execution to line
agencies correlated to demonstrated, increased capacity. For some large
infrastructure projects, it is also suggested that a portion of a grant
facility attached to the Bank Group be applied to project preparation. The
reason given is that the use of a reimbursable credit as a last resort
forces the government to locate other grant providers for project prepara-
tion and preparation is subsequently shaped
by the provider. This has delayed timing of IDA investment and disburse-
ment.
1.34       The Bank Group needs to be careful about the covenants included in
multi-sectoral credit/loans. We must be sure that a government has the
capacity to satisfy the covenants, and they must be meaningful within the
context of the ongoing project. For example, two important exercises did
not meet these criteria as covenants; one resulted in the DCA being amended
to remove the covenant, and the other was satisfied only after a long delay.
The covenant to strengthen the consulting industry simply was not in the
purview of the MOF to execute. Most credits are executed by line ministries



- 10 -
who have experience in recruiting and contracting consultants. Because of
the multi-sectoral nature of this Credit, the MOF was given the responsi-
bility for implementing it, and the office in MOF responsible had no con-
tracting experience. They also found it awkward to be the office respon-
sible for picking a consultant who would set the ground rules for the entire
industry. This important exercise might have been better handled by
requiring that a UNDP project document be signed undertaking this work
before the TA credit could become effective.
1.35       HMGN clearly supported and wanted to develop a stancard contract
for use in contracting consulting services. However, attempting tc develop
a contract format in the middle of executing consultant contracts ur.der the
Credit was frustrating and distracting. The Bank's Legal Department ended
up providing an inordinate amount of unreimbursed technical assistance to
this exercise. Again, this objective would have been better met before the
TA Credit came under implementation, e.g., as a condition of effectiveness.
1.36       Project reporting requirements (DCA Section 4.04 [e)) stipulated
that MOF submit quarterly reports on the progress of each subproject to IDA.
Instead, Government line agencies submitted reports of individual sub-
projects to the respective Task Managers in IDA. In the future, all with-
drawal applications should go through MOF with the requirement that a status
report be attached for MOF to pass on to the overall Task Manager in IDA.
1.37       Audit procedures might be better designed to be suitable for
multi-sectoral projects containing discrete subprojects that are virtua:ly
all consulting services contracts (para 1.22).
1.38       Some of the delays in identifying subprojects may have resulted
from a lack of awareness of rotating officials in line ministries about the
availability of the Credit. Any future credits need to have a mechanism
built in to keep all line ministries alert to the status of the TA Credits.
1.39       In conclusion, Credit 1379-NEP fully met its immediate objective.
The studies under the Credit are helping to generate US$369.0 million of
investment. Lessons learned from the previous TA credit have contributed to
the success of Credit 1379-NEP--for example, better recruiting and con-
tracting procedures. The experience under the Credit suggests that serious
consideration be given to establishing a grant facility within the Bank
Group to tackle institutional development barriers and to guide the prepara-
tion of large investment projects.



- 11 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
2.1        The Second Technical Assistance Project Credit 1379-NEP financed
15 sub-projects under six different sectors. The sectoral composition,
including individual projects, is depicted below:
(a) Power
- Water Resources Adviser (Legal Services).
- Panel of Experts for Hydroelectric Projects.
- Least Cost Enerjv Generation Expansion Plan (1986-2000).
- Predesign Investigation for Arun III Hydropower Project.
(b) Agriculture
- Terai Agricultural Development Project-Study.
- Administration and Management Study of the Institute of
Agricultural and Animal Sciences, Rampur.
- Detail Design for Stage II of Sunsari Morang Irrigation
Project.
(c) Water Supplv
- West and Central Development Regions Water Supply Study.
- Greater Kathmandu Water Drainage Master Plan Study
(d) Transport (Road)
- Design of Karnali Bridge.
- Arun III Access Road Study (Dhankuta Khandbari).
- Arun III Access Road Detailed Engineering.
(e) Health (Population)
- Population Project Preparation.
- Population Studies.
(f) Education
- Establishment of Computer Training Facility at
Tribhuvan University Institute of Engineering.
Report
2.2        The above projects were carefully chosen by His Majesty's Govern-
ment of Nepal (HMGN) and agreed with IDA. While the first TA project to
Nepal concentrated on agriculture sector development, the focus of the
second TA project was on the development of Nepal's hydropower subsector.
It provided funding to four subprojects directly associated with this
subsector along with two Arun III Road subprojects which facilitated the
preparatory work associated with the processing of the Arun III Hydropower
Project. Consequently, Credit 1379-NEP paved the way for a major investment



- 12 -
in the development of Nepal's power sector by assisting in the financing of
preparatory works required for a least cost hydropower project (viz. the
Arun III Hydropower Project). The detailed design of this project is
nearing completion, the detailed design of the Arun III Access Road has been
completed, the sensitive issue of the environmental aspect of this project
is being addressed. The project is almost ready for implementation subject
to improvement of institutional financial performance and funding arrange-
ment. This clearly demonstrates the usefulness of the resources made avail-
able under the Credit. The funding for the Legal Services subproject has
helped the Ministry of Water Resources in assessing issues with India
relating to water resources in the context of the Karnali Multipurpose
Project. The Karnali Bridge is already under construction as per the design
accomplished under the Credit which has helped to expedite the construction
of the East-West Highway, a priority project for socio-economic integration
of the natior.. The construction work of Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project
Phase II, targeted to irrigate 23,000 hectares, has also begun based on the
design completed under the captioned project. Similarly, other studic,s and
technical support projects were satisfactorily completed under t-is Credit.
2.3        The Miniotry of Finance (MOF) found the Bank very suppo..tve in
its development endeavors and helpful in identifying the sub-projects. IDA
extended its full cooperation to MOF throughout the implementation of the
project. Similarly, MOF had a good rapport with the executing agencies and
received full cooperation from them.
2.4        However, the project encountered some problems at different stages
of implementation. One of them was the delay in identification of sub-
projects and preparation of a standard contract document for consultancy
services. The basic reason for this was the involvement of so many organi-
zations/institutions in one single project, and the requirement for
obtaining the approval of all of them prior to making a final decision.
Despite MOF's efforts in undertaking a survey of local consultancy indus-
tries, responses were very slow and came only at the end of the project
period. These factors combined required the extension of the project for
three consecutive years.
2.5        Apart from these problems, HMGN MOF has some observations on the
implementation of the project. This project did not give adequate thought
to local inputs including HMGN's financial contributions. As a result,
subprojects especially with components involving heavy procurement like the
Computer-Aided Teaching Programme, faced difficulty in managing local costs.
The Arun III Access Road is a typical hilly road tailored to local geograph-
ical conditions. For such a project a consortium of foreign and local
consultants (and technical personnel) for both the feasibility study and
detail design would have been very fruitful and practical. IDA could have
been more helpful by passing on more information on complex and sophisti-
cated projects like the Karnali Bridge Design Project through its experts or
by providing manpower tr4ining to the Borrower since the Borrower's perfor-
mance in this particula. project was somewhat restricted because of its high
technology requirements. The part-time consultants under the project were
very costly. HMGN feels that other arrangements need to be made in the
future to realize the objective of providing short term consultancy services
in a more economical manner.



- 13 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
3.1 Related IDA Credits
Credit                                         Year of
Title               Purpose                    Approval   Status        Comments
1. First           Provision of assistance    1976       Closed June
Technical        in the preparation of                30, 1983.
Assistance       feasibility studies,                 PCR issued
Project         design and engineering                November, 1985
(Cr. 659-NEP)   work in order to develop
a pipeline of high priority
projects suitable for
by IDA and other external
donors.
2. Sunsari Morang  Rehabilitation and           1987     Under          The detailed
Irrigation II   improvement of existing               implementa-   design work
Project          irrigation system.                   tion           for this US$50
(Cr. 1814-NEP)                                                       million project
was executed
under Subproject
#10 of Cr. 1379-
NEP.
3. Arun III         Construction of a 192       1989     Under          The survey work
Access Road      km access road from                   implementa-   needed for this
Project         Basantpur to the site                 tion           US$32.8 million
(Cr. 2029-NEP)  of this proposed Arun                                project was done
III Power Station.                                  under Subproject
#8 of Cr. 1379-
NEP.
3.2   Prolect Timetable
Date              Date             Date
Item                       Planned            Revised         Actual
- Identification
- Preparation                    Mar-Nov 1982          --             Mar-Nov 1982
- Appraisal Mission              Not applicable.  Appraisals are not done for this
type of multi-sectoral, free-standing Credit.
- Credit Negotiations            April 15, 1983        --             April 28, 1983
- Board Approval                 May 24, 1983          --             June 2, 1983
- Credit Signature                    --               ^-             Sept 1, 1983
- Credit Effectiveness           Nov. 29, 1983         --             Dec 27, 1983
- Ccedit Closing                 Dec 31, 1987       Dec 31, 1988/    Dec 31, 1990
1989 & 1990
- Credit Cowspletion             June 30, 1987          --            April 30, 1991



- 14 _
3.3   Credit Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ Million)
FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91
Appraisal Estimate        1.0   3.0   5.0   5.4   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
Actual                 -    0.3   1.1   2.0   3.1   5.2   6.2   6.7
Actual as %
of Estimate          -    1     22    37    52    87    103   112
Date of Final Disbursement: April 4, 1991
B. Actual Disbursements in SDRs
IDA Fiscal Year
IDA FY                SDR (Mil)                Percent
1984                    --                        0
1985                   0.3                       5.1
1986                   1.0                      18.7
1987                   1.8                      31.3
1988                   2.6                      46.0
1989                   4.2                      74.7
1990                   5.0                      89.2
1991                   5.3                      95.2
(to April 4, 1991)
Comment:  SDR 5.6 million was approved for Credit 1379 and at that
time was equivalent to US Dollars 6.0 million. At
completion, SDR 300,000 was cancelled; however, because the
SDR strengthened against the US dollar, US Dollars are
disbursed over the appraisal estimate.



- 15 -
3.4   Project Costs and FinancinA
A. Proiect Costs
President's Report E,timate               Actual
(US$ Mil)                       (USS Mil)
TOTAL                   6.0                             6.7  1/
A breakdown of project costs by individual subprojects is given below:
Subproject        Subproject                                           Actual
Number              Name                                                (SDR)
1        Design of Karnali Bridge                                 1,029,047
2        Water Resources Adviser (Legal Services)                   319,472
3        Panel of Experts for Hydroelectric Projects                164,962
4        Population Project Preparation                              30,205
5        Population Studies                                           10,397
6        Tarai Agricultural Development Project Study                 17,007
7        Administration and Management Study of the
Institute of Agricultural and Animal
Sciences, Rampur                                           5,914
8        Arun III Access Road Survey
(Dhan Kuta-Khandbari)                                   305,394
9        Least Cost Energy Generation
Expansion Plan (1986-20005)                              138,870
10       Detail Design for Stage II of
Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project                        985,337
11       Establishment of Computer Training Facility
at Tribhuvan University Institute of
Engineering                                              114,391
12       Arun III Access Road Detailed Engineering                1,462,466
13       West and Central Development Regions
Water Supply                                             200,820
14       Study-Greater Kathmandu Water Drainage Master Plan         305,872
15       Study-Predesign Investigation for
Arun III Hydropower Project                              242,940
5,333,094
1/ Disbursements did not exceed the SDR allocation of SDR 5.6 million



- 16 -
B. Project Financing
Planned
Credit
Source              Agreement          Revised      Final      Comments
(US$'000)         (US$'OOO)   (US$'000)
IDA                     6.0               --           6.7   The Credit was denominated
in SDRs, which did not
change. Because of
exchange rate fluctuations
the US Dollar Amount
increased as the SDR
strengthened against the
US Dollar.
TOTAL                   6.0                 --         6.7
3.5 Proiect Results
Studies
Comment:   A major purpose of the Credit was to provide funds for pre-
investment studies, e.g.: design, detaA'id engineering and
feasibility as needed. The studies completed under the
Credit subsequertly had an impact on the following
investment proj3cts:
Subproiect No.               Proiect Name
#3                 Primary Education Project - US$ 3.5 million
#5                 Primary Education Project - US$ 3.5 million
#6                 Calcium Carbide Project - US$ 9.4 million



-  7-
3.6 Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant                 Subiect                       Compliance       Status
DCA Section 4.01(c)   Appointment of qualified and         12/22/83       Completed
experienced Project Coordinator
DCA Section 4.04(e)   Submission of Quarterly Reports    3/31/84          General Reports
submitted to
Technical Division
commencing 12/31/84
DCA Section 4.04(d)   Submission of Project Completion   4/30/91          Completed
Report (PCR) by Borrower
DCA Section 4.05(b)   Furnish subproject Accounts and        Annually    Under
Audits                                             Compliance
DCA Section 4.06       Draft Standardized Consultant         3/31/84      Completed early 1990
Contract
DCA Section 4.07       Program for strengthening local       12/31/83      Deleted in agreement
consulting industry                                 with Government in
July 1989 as similar
study undertaken by
Bank's Internal Audit
Dept.
3.7   Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of
Prolect Cycle              Planned    Revised    Final            Comments
Through Appraisal              -           -          -            No appraisal
Preparation of                 -           -        5.7
President's Report
through Board Approval
Board Approval                 -           -         1.9
Through
Effectiveness
Supervision                    -            -         19 weeks I/
1/ Staff inputs by Task Managers of individual subprojects have not been
included.



- 18 -
B. Missions
Stage of       Month/   Number of  Days       Specialization   Performance        Types
Proiect Cycle   Year       Persons    in Field  Represented    Rating Status  of problems
Through           11/82       1           7         TA                 I               0 a!
Preparation of
President's
Report
President's          -         -           -        TA                 1               0
Report through
Board Approval
Board Approval   11/83         1           7        TA                 2               0
through
Effectiveness
Supervision        1/84        1          6         TA                 1               0
7/84       1          6          TA                2                0
11/84        1         7          TA                2                0
7/85       1          7          TA                2                0
11/85       1          3          TA                2                0
5/86        1        10          TA                2                0
9/86       1          7          TA                2                0
9/87        1        14          TA                2                0
2/8,8       1        11          iA                2                0
10/88       2         15          TA                2                0
4/89       1          7          TA                2                0
9/89        1        11          TA                2                0
3/90        1         5          TA                2                0
4/91        1        12          TA                2                0
a/  0 - "Other" refers to disbursement delays.



- 19 -
Annex I
Page I of 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1379-NEP)
Description of Subprolects and The Results
1.    Design of Karnali Bridge
Executing Agency  : Department of Roads, Ministry of Works and
Transport, Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 1,029,047
Consulting engineers were selected to undertake a series of
studies leading to the establishment of the final design specifications to
be used in the construction of the Karnali River Bridge. The contract
signed on March 13, 1984 covered a 54 week assignment. It encompassed
studies on the expected forces to be applied to the proposed bridge in order
to determine the degree of stress and amount of tonnage the bridge should be
designed to withstand; soil investigations and topographical surveys at the
site area in order to pinpoint the optimum location for placing the bridge
structure, as well as preliminary cost estimates for the bridge. These
studies helped to speed up the preparatory work for the Third Highways
Project (Credit No.1515-NEP) financed by IDA in the amount of US$ 47.5
million. A related activity was the Karnali Prepa-ation Project - Phase I
(Credit No.1452-NEP for US$ 11.0 million) which generated among others, a
feasibility study of the Karnali (Chisapani) Multipurpose Project on the
Karnali River in Nepal.
2.    Water Resources Adviser (Legal Services)
Executing Agency : Ministry of Water Resources,
Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 333,900
Under this subproject, the Government signed a contract on March
13, 1984 for the services of a legal consultant to provide "opinion, conduct
research and studies, make recommendations, draft documents of varied
nature, perform and assist in negotiations or other tasks as shall be
determined by the Government on legal (municipal, or international)
institutional, financial and related issues relating to or in connection
with the exploitation and development of water resources in Nepal."



- 20 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
The assignment was primarily focused on the Government's
intention to develop the Karnali River.  Its objective %as to provide the
Government with assistance in the collection of relevant documentation on
the international theory and practice on water sharing rights and related
matters including advice on all legal matters connected with the
implementation of Nepal's Water Resources Development Plan. The latter
included the provision of legal advice on matters pertaining to negotiations
with India, including the creation of bi-national legal entities for part of
the implemtntation of the Water Resources Development Plan, as well as the
legal framework to be created for the best possible external financing of
projects.
3.    Panel of Experts for Hydroelectric Projects
Executing Agency : Nepal Electricity Authority,
Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 165,000
This subproject provided for a review of the feasibility report
for the Sapt Gandki Hydroelectric Project by a panel of four experts. The
Panel was also assigned the responsibility for supervising the undertaking
of Hydraulic Model Tests for the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Project (Credit
1478-NEP for US$107 Million) during the project preparation stage, as well
as advice on the most economical method of dealing with the cracks that had
developed in the Kulekhani Dam and the landslide near the intake under the
Kulekhani Project (Cr. 600-NEP). A subsidiary activity under this subproject
was the provision of the services of a Claims Advisor to assist the
Marsyangdi Project Authority in claim handling procedures generated by the
numerous contractors providing services to the Marsyangdi Hydroelecttic
Development Board under the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Project.
'4.    Population Project Preparation
Executing Agency : Ministry of Health,
Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 30,205
This subproject financed a consultancy assisting FP/MCH and the
Population Commission in a pre-project study of service intensification of
the FP/MCH Program and training requirements. The Study undertaken by a
Task Force of eight national technical consultants assisted by a foreign
expert was for the purpose of preparing a population project proposal for
IDA financing. There appears to have been no follow-up action on the Study
by IDA, even though a preliminary proposal for a US$11.6 million project was
developed. It is understood that this was because USAID and UNFPA continued
to provide the further assistance needed in this area eliminating the need
for IDA's intervention.



- 21 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
5.        Population Studies
Executing Agency : Ministry of Health,
Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 10,369
The subproject financed two studies. The first on Population
Research and Training Centers and the second on Vital Registration. A
project proposal was developed by IDA for a US$11.0 million investment for
the construction of permanent structures for the national training center at
Kathmandu and three regional centers. As with the previous subproject,
follow-up action was not pursued since further training activities continued
to be financed by UNFPA and USAID.
6.    Tarai Agricultural Development Proiect Study
Executing Agency : Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 17,007
This subproject pertains to the services provided by a local
consulting firm under the first technical assistance credit to Nepal (Credit
659-NEP). Under subproject #9 of this previous Credit, this 1.irm was
contracted to prepare the Tarai Agriculture Development Project for World
Bank financing in accordance with the provisions of the Aide Memoire of the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Project Identification Mission of
December 2, 1982. The work was completed between December 2, 1982 and April
27, 1983 at the cost of US$100,000. US$80,000 of the amount due to the
consultant firm was disbursed under Cr. 659-NEP. As no more funds were
available to meet the balance of US$20,000 from Credit 659, the Government
requested that this payment be made under Credit 1379-NEP. The contract
covering the balance amount due to the local firm was signed with MOA on
April 15, 19P5.
7.    Adminietration and Management Study of the Institute of Agricultural
and           Animal Sciences. Rampur
Executing Agency : Ministry of Education,
Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 5,914
This activity represents an overdue payment for work completed
under subproject 16 of the first technical assistance Credit to Nepal (CR.
659-NEP). Payment was made to a local consulting firm for a review it had
undertaken of the objectives and activities of the Institute of Agricultural



- 22 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 7
Sciences (IAAS), Rampur with specific focus on its three main functions -
instruction, research and extension. The review was carried out by a team
of three experts from this firm.
The team was required to make recommendations on measures to
strengthen and improve the administration and management of the Institute in
the context of the proposed IDA financed Agricultural Development Project
which was expected to implement those recommendations acceptable to the
Government and IDA.
8.    Arun III Access Road Survey (Dhankuta-Khandbari)
Executing Agency : Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA),
Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 305,394
This subproject was established in October 1986. Its ultimate
objective was to speed up the implementation of the Arun III - Hydroelectric
Power Project. Hence NEA assumed the role of implementing agency. The Arun
III Power Project was identified by the Master Plan Study for th2
utilization of the water resources of the Kosi River Basin as the most
promising proposal for harnessing the regions hydropower potential. However,
the road to connect the site with Dhankuta (Hile) remained a serious
bottleneck to implementing the hydropower project. The studies commissioned
under the subproject were to help to speed-up the detailed design and
construction work of the Access Road from Dhankuta (Hile). They involved:
the preparation of a topographical map of 1:5000 scale with a contour
interval of 5 km to determine the proposed road alignment, bridge
requirement and cost estimation of the Access Road from Dhankuta to the Arun
III hydroproject site; conducting a field survey covering topographical,
geo-technical and hydrological studies to identify the proposed route
alignment; carrying out a study of the road alignment to identify the most
cost-effective and technically feasible route; carrying out a route survey
in the selected alignment wherever necessary and conducting a cross-
sectional survey along the alignment. The Arun III Hydroelectric Project
will stimulate development activity in the region through the provision of a
cheap source of energy.
9.    Least Cost Energy Generation Expansion Plan
Executing Agency : Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA)
Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 140,000
This subproject (cofinanced by CIDA) helped to finance an
electric power system planning study for Nepal covering the electricity load
forecast for 1986, as a basis for the preparation of a Generation Expansion



- 23 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
Plan for the country for the period 1986 to 2005. The objective of the study
was to enable decisions to be taken on the next power generation project to
meet the long-term load demand of Nepal. As such, it contributed to the
formulation of the proposal for the Arun III Hydroelectric Project. This
subproject is consequently closely linked to subproject #8 of this Credit
which was a prerequisite for the successful implementation of the Arun III
Project.
The subproject also provided for assistance (system planning) to
enhance NEA's capacity to carry out similar studies on a regular basis in
the future. Additionally, the subproject provided funding for the Donor's
Meeting on the development of the Nepal Power Subsector which was convened
in Paris in 1988.
10.   Detail Design for Stage II of Sunseri Morang Irrigation Project
Executing Agency : Department of Irrigation,
Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 1,100,000
This subproject has helped to speed up the Bank's appraisal of
the Sunsari Morang II Irrigation Project (estimated cost US$50.0 million)
through the use of the consultancy services for the completion of baseline
and survey design work and the preparation of tender documents for the
proposed project.
Apart from improvements to the Chatra Main Canal, the project
includes improvements to Stage I of the Sunsari Morang Project, providing
irrigation to about 9,759 ha; rehabilitation and construction of surface
irrigation and drainage network on about 16,700 ha (the Stage II area); and
the construction of 1,500 tubewells and other works which would help to
increase agricultural production and farmers' incomes through the provision
of a reliable supply of water to users enabling them to optimize irrigation
benefits.
11.   Establishment of Computer Training Facility at the Tribhuvan
University          Institute of Engineering.
Executing Agency : Institute of Engineering (IOE),
University of Tribhuvan
Amount             : SDR 140,500
Under subproject 11 the services of a consultant were secured to
assist in the start-up of a new computer assisted teaching facility at the
Central Pulchowak Campus of IOE. Under the subproject IOE's Computer
Facility was provided with modern technology, software and services to



- 24 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
support and strengthen ongoing instructional programs and in particular to
provide remedial teaching in Science and Mathematics to first year students
of the Technicians Training Program.
12. Arun III Access Road Detailed Engineering
Executing Agency : Department of Roads,
Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 1,462,637
The subproject extended the assignment of the consultant firm
for design work initiated under subproject #8 to include the detailed
engineering work for the Arun III Access Road. The request followed a
suggestion in an Aide Memoire prepared by a World Bank Transport Mission to
Nepal in 1988.
13.   West and Central Development Regions Water Supply Study
Executing Agency : Department of Water Supply and
Sewerage, Governnment of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 250,000
This activity involved the assessment of 158 reports prepared by
local consultants on rural water supply projects proposed for the
development of the Western and Central Regions of Nepal. The work was
undertaken by a firm of foreign consultants working in collaboration with
national consultant firms. The objective of this exercise was to ensure that
these reports were of a quality acceptable to external donors. The
Assessment Report submitted conforms with the latest Government policy which
emphasizes community involvement in the planning, construction and
maintenance of systems by User Committees. Consequently, it gives community
involvement greater stress over strict engineering intervention in project
preparation.
The Report covered the preparation of about 65 new rural water
supply and sanitation projects estimated to cost about US$12.0 million.
Under a parallel UNDP effort, the Management Information and Technical
Support Project (NEP/88/005), about 280 existing schemes were prepared for
rehabilitation prior to their being handed over to User Committees. The two
preparatory exercises together provide a basis for a package of investments
in the rural water supply and sanitation sector by interested bilateral or
multilateral agencies. The Regional Water and Sanitation Group South Asia
(RWSGSA) has also prepared a Rural Water and Sanitation Sector Memorandum
which will serve as a 1'b%sis for a dialogue with the Government to address
the main problems in this sector.



- 25 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
14.   Greater Kathmandu Water Drainage Master Plan Study
Executing Agency : Department of Water Supply and
Sewerage, Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 354,000
Under this subproject a contract was signed on March 3, 1989
requiring the consultant to prepare a Drainage Master Plan for Greater
Kathmandu (i.e., Kathmandu-Lalitpur) along with a Five Year Investment Plan.
The Drainage Master Plan presented a broad outline of the system concept,
the technical criteria and methods appropriate to various elements of the
system, including their linkages to other aspects of urban development. It
also identified the most critical measures needing immediate attention.
The Five Year Investment Plan prepared by the Consultant
identified the more urgent works in the Master Plan. It included an
appraisal of the institutional constraints and the technical assistance
needs for the design and implementation of these works as well as their cost
implications.
The Study, completed in September 1990, envisages a long term
investment requirement of about US$320 million in 1990 prices for works
covering storm drainage, sanitary sewers and sewage treatment as well as
preliminary engineering for urgent drainage and allied works. An interim
package with a 20 year horizon costing about US$180 million in five year
time slices is also indicated. The 1991-1995 program of about US$51 million,
excluding contingencies, represents a more realistic figure covering such
urgent works as the rehabilitation of existing facilities and the
construction of new treatment plants. The Study highlights in particular the
piecemeal effort pursued in the provision of stormwater drainage and
sanitary sewerage which also function as combined sewers in the process of
operation requiring a major effort if the situation is to be turned around.
15.   PredesiRn Investigation for Arun III Hydropower Prolect
Executing Agency : Nepal Electricity Authority
Government of Nepal
Amount             : SDR 256,000
The objective of this subproject was to finance supervision by
the Panel of Experts of the detailed engineering study of the Arun III
Hydroelectric Project which was financed by KFW. This subproject represents
the logical conclusion of the activity commenced under Subprojects #1, #8,
#9 and #12.



- 27 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1379-NEP)
Subpro4ects Financed by Eligible Category
Actual            Actual
A.  Pre-Investment Studies           Allocation   Disbursements   Disbursements
(SDR)        (SDR)          (US$ equivalent)
1. Design of Karnali Bridge          1,029,047      1,029,047         1,109,114
(Subproject #1)
2. Panel of Experts for
Hydroelectric Projects             165,000        164,962           191,077
(Subproject #3)
3. Population Project Preparation       30,205         30,205            30,913
(Subproject #4)
4. Tarai Agricultural Development       17,007         17,007            20,000
Project Study (Subproject #6)
5. Arun III Access Road Survey         305,394        305,394           390,474
(Dhankuta-Khandabari)
(Subproject #8)
6. Least Cost Energy Generation
Expansion Plan (1986-2000)
(Subproject #9)                    140,000        138,870           179,797
7. Detail Design for Stage II of
Sunsari Morang Irrigation
Project (Subproject #10)         1,100,000        985,337         1,276,468
8. Arun III Access Road Detailed
Engineering (Subproject #12)   1,462,637        1,462,466         1,917,922
9. West and Central Development
Regions Water Supply Study
(Subproject #13)                   250,000        200,820           272,382
10. Greater Kathmandu Master
Plan Study
(Subproject #14)                   354,000        305,872           400,716
11. Predesign Investigation for
Arun III Hydropower Project
(Subproject #15)                   256,000        242,940           314,477



- 28 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
B. Policy Oriented and Institutional Studies
Actual          Actual
Allocation   Disbursements  Disbursements
(SDR)        (SDR)        (US$ equivalent)
1. Water Resources Adviser         333,900        319,472         387,703
(Legal Services)
(Subproject #2)
2. Population Studies
(Subproject #5)                 10,369        10,397           11,228
3. Administration and Management
Study of the Institute of
Agricultural and Animal
Sciences, Rampur
(Subproject #7)                5,914          5,914           6,729
4. Establishment of Computer
Training Facility at Tribhuvan
University Institute of
Engineering
(Subproject #11)              140,500        114,391         147,763
Total     5,600,000 1/  5,333,094 2/   6,656,763
1/ Subproject totals add up to SDR 5,599,973 due to rounding off.
2/ SDR 266,906 was cancelled as of April 4, 1991.



- 29 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1379-NEP)
Follow-up Investment and Investment Support
Subproject No.               Project           Follow-up        Support
(US$M)          (US$M)
#1.   Design of               Third Highways        -             47.5
Karnali Bridge          (Cr.1515)
#2.   Adviser on              Marsyangdi Hydro       -           107.0
Water Resources         Power (Cr.1478)
(Legal Services)
1#3.   Panel of Experts for
Hydroelectric Projects
#3.   As above                Proposed Sapt         -             Review of
Gandaki Hydro                       feasibility
Report
#8.   Arun III                Arun III             32.8*
Access Rd.              Access Rd.
survey
#12.  Arun III
Detailed Eng.
#10.  Detailed                Sunsari Morang       50.0
Design Stage II         Irrigation II
Suns6ri Morang          (Cr.1814)
#13.  West and                Projected            28.0
Central                 Investment
Development Regions
Water Supply
#14.  Greater Kathmandu       Projected            51.16
Water Drainage           Investment
Master Plan
* This investment could increase substantially to an estimated US$100 million.
See paragraph 1.15.



- 30 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Subproiect No.               Project           Follow-up        Support
#9.  Least Cost Energy       Arun III           207.2**
Generation              Hydro Power
Expansion Plan
#15. Predesign
Investigation
Arun III
Hydropower Project
Total          369.16             154.5
** Project under preparation



- 31 -
Annex 4
Page 1. of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1379-NEP)
Subproiects Financed by Sector
Actual
Disbursements
(SDR)
Infrastructure - (62%)
Design of Karnali Bridge                            1,029,047
(Subproject #1)
Arun III Access Road Survey                           305,394
(Dhankuta-Khandbari)
(Subproject #8)
Arun III Access Road                                1,462,466
Detailed Engineering
(Subproject #12)
West and Central                                      200,820
Development Regions
Water Supply Study
(Subproject #13)
Greater Kathmandu Water
Drainage Master Plan Study                            305,872
(Subproject #14)
Total    3,303,599
Population & Human Resources  - (3%)
Population Project                                     30,205
Preparation
(Subproject #4)
Population Studies                                     10,397
(Subproject #5)



- 32 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Actual Disbursements (SDR)
Adm.& Mgt.Study of                                      5,914
the Institute of
Agricultural & Animal Sciences, Rampur
(Subproject #7)
Establishment of                                      114,391
Computer Trg.Facility
at Tribhuvan University
Institute of Engineering
Total      160,907
Agriculture - (19%)
Tarai Agricultural                                     17,007
Development Project Study
(Subproject #6)
Detailed Design for Stage II
of Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project
(Subproject #10)                                      985,337
Total       1,002,344
Energy - (16%)
Water Resources                                      319,472
Adviser (Legal Services)*
(Subproject #2)
Panel of Experts for                                  164,962
Hydroelectric Projects
(Subproject #3)
Least Cost Energy                                     138,870
Generation Expansion Plan
(Subproject #9)
Predesign Investigation for                           242,940
Arun III Hydropower Project
(Subproject #15)
Total         866,244
Grand Total     5,333,094
*Served both Energy and Agriculture



