Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 25101-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR A
RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
April 4, 2003
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 4, 2003)
Currency Unit = Romanian Lei
1 Lei = US$0.000029
US$1 = 33,840 Lei
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADLIC      Computerized admission in secondary  NABE    National Assessment of Basic Education
schools
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy       NAES       National Assessment and Examination Service
CEID       Commission for Education Innovation  NED     National Education Database
and Development
CPIU       Country Project Implementation Units  NEI    National Education Indicators
E&TS       Education and Training System     NGO        Non Governmental Organization
EA         Environmental Assessment          ODL        Open and Distance Learning
EMP        Environmental Management Plan     OECD       Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
FMR       Financial Monitoring Report        OM         Operational Manual
FMS        Financial Management Specialist   PHRD       Policy and Humnan Resource Development Fund
GA         Grant Agreements                  PIRLS      Progress in Intemational Reading and Literacy Study
GDP        Gross Domestic Product            PISA       Project for International Students' Assessment
GOR        Government of Romania             PMU        Project Management Unit
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction  QER   Quality Enhancement Review
and Development
IEC        Information Education Communication  RFP     Requests for Proposal
ILO        International Labour Organization  ROL       Romanian Lei
ISE        Institute of Education Sciences   SCG        School-Community Grants
LEC        Local Education Councils          SPT        Sub-Project Teatn
MER        Ministry of Education and Research  SR       School Rehabilitation
MIS        Management Information System     TIMSS      Third Intemational Mathematics & Science Study
MRC        Mobile Resource Centers           USD        US Dollar
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:   Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:     Maureen McLaughlin
Task Team Leader:     Ana Maria Sandi



ROMANIA
RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               12
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    24
3. Benefits and target population                                                   24
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    24
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        26
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies    27
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              27
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 30
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      30
E. Summnary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         30
2. Financial                                                                        30
3. Technical                                                                        31
4. Institutional                                                                    31
5. Environmental                                                                    32
6. Social                                                                           33
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               35
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   35
2. Critical risks                                                                   36



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    37
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          37
2. Other                                                                             37
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        38
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       39
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        40
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       73
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis                                               74
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   78
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  79
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                        86
Annex 7  Project Processing Schedule                                                    92
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 93
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                95
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           97
MAP(S)
IBRD 28710R



ROMANIA
Rural Education Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: April 4, 2003                              Teani Leader: Ana Maria Sandi
Sector Manager: Maureen McLaughlin               Sector(s): Primary education (50%), Secondary education
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink              (50%)
Project lD: P073967                              Theme(s): Education for the knowledge economy (P),
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Rural services and infrastructure (P), Education for all (S)
[Project Financing Data                                         ---
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit   [ l Grant     ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 60.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:  Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 4                        Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%                          Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Borrower to Pay from Own Resources
FFinancing Plan (US$m):  - Source,    -                     Local   '    Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                     29.96           0.04         30.00
IBRD                                                         38.30      .   21.70         60.00
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING             1.00           0.00          1.00
COUNTRY
Total:                                                       69.26          21.74         91.00
Borrower: ROMANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
Address: Schitu Magureanu 1, Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Tiberiu Velter
Tel 40 1 3111358           Fax:             Email: velter@ump kappa ro
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
F^;' FY        (2004'     20(15   5. 2006' '.007         2008--     2(09-.
Annual     4.00       8.82      14.46     17.62      9.82       5.28
Cumulative     4.00     12.82      27.28     44 90      54.72     60.00
Project implementation period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2003  Expected closing date: 09/15/2009



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The overall objective of the project is to have rural schools students benefit from improved access to
quality education, as evidenced by higher achievement scores and completion and transition rates. This
objective would be achieved through: (i) professional development of teachers and principals of rural
schools; (ii) improvement of teaching conditions of rural schools both with respect to adequate
minimum facilities and provision of basic teaching- learning materials; (iii) promotion of school- based
innovation programs and community participation; and (iv) improvement of policy making capacity of
local and central education authorities/agencies. The project will support a broader community
involvement in education management, working not only with education authorities, but also with the
local councils, parents and representatives of communities. It will aim to support decentralization by
increasing the capacity of schools and local authorities to develop their own school improvement plans
and to improve school management. Thus, the project is encouraging democratic school govemance and
is strengthening school-community linkages.
Romania embarked early on, during its transition to a democratic society and a market economy, on a
comprehensive education reform. Although this is a long-term process, progress is already visible. The
Bank has and is assisting Romania in all the three major areas important to education systems: quality,
efficiency and equity through consecutive projects and sector work: the Education Reform project
(1994- 2002), the Higher Education Reform project (1997- 2002), the School Rehabilitation project
(1998- 2004), the Education Policy Note- focused on finance, management and human resources issues
(2002) and the proposed Rural Education project.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project is focusing on rural student achievements as the main measure of its success. The principal
indicators that will be used to measure and monitor long term education outcomes will be:
o   increasing rural students' achievement scores in compulsory education as evidenced by
assessments and examinations by end of school year 2008-2009;
o   reducing the gap between urban and rural achievement scores in compulsory education by
end of school year 2008-2009;
o   increasing the compulsory education completion rate in rural areas by end of school year
2008-2009;
o   reducing the gap between urban and rural completion rates in compulsory education by end
of school year 2008-2009;
o   increasing the transition rates to upper secondary and tertiary education for rural students
by school year 2008-2009;
o   reducing the gap between urban and rural transition rates to upper secondary and tertiary
education by end of school year 2008-2009.
Evidence from other projects and studies indicates that it takes time for the impact of education
interventions to have an impact on students leaming. Consequently, the project impact will not be fully
achieved during the life of the project. At least 10 years will be needed until the impact of project
interventions on student achievements will start being visible. Since the data horizon for project reporting
- 2 -



will go beyond project closure, the Bank's Quality Enhancement Review (QER) for this project suggested
that the Ministry of Education and Research (MER) should be assisted to put in place a monitoring
mechanism to keep track of education progress in schools that benefited from one or more interventions.
In this way, support will be given to MER and local decision makers to gain experience with
results-based management. Moreover, the project would support efforts to improve the completeness and
reliability of administrative data collection and reporting systems at national, county and local levels,
including the interface with local governments.
Equity issues will be given priority in monitoring implementation. Equity in this case is seen in two
dimensions. First, it is the equity that can be measured by comparison of performances of rural schools
within counties (the companson is rural against rural over time) and between counties. In this case,
equity will be enhanced, if the observable equity-related variables improve average scores over time and
reduce dispersions (standard deviation) among counties. For example, if the observable variable is
learning achievement scores in Mathematics in rural schools, the average score within all the counties
needs to increase and the standard deviation of the county average score needs to be reduced during the
life of the project. The other dimension to observe changes in equity is by comparing equity between
rural and urban schools over time in the entire country. In this case, the ratio of the observable equity-
related variables in urban schools divided by the corresponding variables in rural schools need to
decrease over time. The collection of participatory and other qualitative and contextual information
would complement the information offered by quantitative data and would also be used to check its
accuracy. During project implementation, inforrmation would be made available to the stakeholders that
participated in the design process, to enhance their ability to use information for policy dialogue and to
engage them in a learning process.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 22180-RO Date of latest CAS discussion: June 19, 2001
The CAS presents two distinct lending scenarios: (i) the high case scenario, to be adopted if Romania
sustains accelerated reforms and (ii) the low case scenario, to be adopted if Romania pursues a hesitant
pace of reforms. The Rural Education project is included in the lending program both scenarios,
although with different projected loans amounts. Inclusion in both scenarios reflects the priority
attached to the project's expected impact on poverty reduction and grass-roots capacity building.
Since December 2001, the high case scenario has been in effect. The Bank's assistance program focuses
on: (i) targeted poverty interventions; (ii) promotion of growth through pnvate sector development; and
(iii) governance and institutional reforn. The proposed Rural Education project will contribute to the
first and the last of these goals. The targeted poverty interventions include: (a) strengthening of the
social safety net; (b) improving the delivery of health services; (c) strengthening community-based
development; and (d) revitalizing the economy in rural areas. The project aims at objectives (c) and (d).
In particular, together with the Rural Finance loan, the Rural Development loan and the Irrigation
Rehabilitation loan, the project seeks to reduce poverty in rural areas among groups for which poverty is
deepest. The project will also support governance and institutional reforms by: (a) strengthening data
collection and reporting for rural education; (b) improving policy formulation, coordination and
implementation in education, especially related to basic education policy objectives such as quality,
equity and efficiency; and (c) building local governments capacity to manage the schools together with
education authorities, in a decentralized setting.
- 3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
Romania embarked on a comprehensive reformn of education immediately after it began the transition to
a pluralistic democracy and a market economy. Education reforms designed during 1993 and supported
by the Bank have registered several important successes. Education has moved from a highly centralized
system based on a standardized curriculum, single textbook per subject, state monopoly of textbooks
publishing, no national education quality monitonng, to a system with a flexible national curriculum,
alternative textbooks, a private textbooks publishing industry and a national assessment and
examination service. The education system has also progressed in reforming teacher training, education
management and school finance.
According to the education law, the compulsory cycle is free and consists of four years primary
education and four years of lower secondary education. Children may start the grade one at age 6 or 7.
In the near future it is planned to extend compulsory education by two additional years. There are three
options for post- compulsory education: upper secondary education (including academic and technical
schools), vocational schools and apprenticeship schools.
Romania has attained better access to basic education than countries in other regions at simnilar levels of
income, particularly those in Latin American Countries and Middle East and North Africa. Gross
enrollment rates are high. In year 2001, about 1,089,315 students were enrolled in primary education
(grades 1-4) and 1,320,917 in lower secondary (grades 5-8), representing 95.8% of the children 7 -14
years old (National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies, 2001). There are 12,549 schools in the
system (grades 1-8), 84.4% of them located in rural areas; 2,376,700 students are enrolled, 45.66% of
them attending rural schools. Student- teacher ratios are typical for the region averaging around 14.6.
However, public expenditure for education is low, averaging 3.2 to 3.7 percent of Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) during the second half of the 1990s. The average public expenditure in education was
5.2 percent of GDP for Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries in
2000 (OECD - Education at a Glance, 2000).
Despite universal access to schooling, a significant fraction of children are not successfully completing
basic education. High dropout rates are a serious concern since research shows that in order for children
to obtain even modest benefits from education they need a minimum of 5-6 years of schooling. Romania
has performed unexpectedly poorly in international assessments. In 1995, it ranked 25th out of 38
countries participating in the Third International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS). From a rural
vs. urban perspective, the scores were lower in rural areas: (i) scores for Sciences were 448.16 in rural
areas, as compared to 493.68 in urban areas; and (ii) scores for Mathematics, were 448.15 in rural areas,
as compared to 493.54 in urban areas.
Rural Education
According to the preliminary results of the 2002 census, 47.3% of Romanians live in rural areas. This
population resides m 2868 communes (439 of them with less than 2000 inhabitants). The communes are
made up of 10,409 small villages. Since the beginning of the transition from a centrally planned
economy to a market system, large numbers of workers from failing industries have moved back to
villages to make their living from subsistence agriculture, practiced on small pieces of land received
under the land restitution law. The proportion of the school-aged population living in rural Romania has
increased over the past decade. This has occurred because birth rates in villages and towns have been
much greater than in the cities over the past decade. The average number of births per woman has been
- 4 -



seventy percent higher in rural than urban areas. If these fertility rates were to continue and migration
between urban and rural areas were to cease completely, in only a generation, two-thirds of all children
entering school would live in rural areas. Although the country has resumed economic growth during
the last few years, migration will not be reversed soon. Therefore, government policies seek to improve
living conditions in rural areas and stabilize the rural population rather than to encourage re- migrating
to the cities. In the long run indeed, as the Romanian economy recovers and develops, with increased
productivity in agriculture, the proportion of the population that could be gainfully employed in
agriculture may fall sharply and most people now growing up in rural Romania will probably have to
move to urban areas in order to find work. Even more so, the knowledge and skills that these migrants
bring with them to larger towns and cities will largely determine their success in urban labor markets
Therefore, from this changed perspective, too, Romania must begin now to ensure that its rural schools
prepare students for employment in the future in modem, urban settings.
During the transition period, rural education deteriorated. Rural- urban discrepancies are manifested in
enrollment, participation, absenteeism, dropout, and completion rates. In 1997, the percentage of
persons with no formal education or with only primary education in rural areas was 27.6, while the
percentage in urban areas was only 2.6. In 1995, 8.2 percent of children aged 7-17 were not attending
school in rural areas, compared with 5.7 percent in urban areas. However, the gap narrowed to 3.5
percent in rural areas vs. 2.7 percent in urban areas in 1998. Only 86 percent of graduates of rural
primary schools entered lower secondary schools, while 98 percent of graduates of urban primary
schools did so. School abandonment is also higher in rural than in urban areas. Losses in lower
secondary education (grades 5-8) have been high: 10.4 percent in urban areas and 15.3 percent in rural
areas during 1995-1999 and 9.3 percent in urban areas and 14 percent in rural areas during 1996-2000
(Institute of Educational Sciences (ISE), 2002). In 2000, only 36 percent of rural students taking the
Capacitate examination at the conclusion of compulsory education (grade 8) scored "very good" on the
native language examination, compared with 71 percent of urban candidates. Rural candidates were
eight times more likely to score "unsatisfactory" on the science examination than urban candidates.
More than half of the students from rural areas received marks of less than 6 (on a I to 10 scale) on the
Capacitate, compared with less than one third in urban areas. Only 68 percent of the students from rural
areas passed that national exanmnation in 1999, as compared to 83 percent of the students in urban
areas. Although nearly half of the school aged population lives in rural areas, only 24 percent of the
students in academic upper secondary education and 37.5 percent of the students in vocational
education come from rural areas. Only one percent of students in higher education come from rural
areas.
A census of rural schools carried out by ISE (Rural Education in Romania, 2002) documents the
substandard conditions in rural basic education schools. The report also includes an analysis of the
causes of nonattendance and performance in rural basic education schools, based on three sources: a) a
2001 beneficiary assessment, including focus-group discussions with school principals and parents; b)
multi- variate regression analysis of the results of the 1996 and 1998 Integrated Household Surveys; and
c) multi- variate regression analysis of the results of the 1997, 1998, and 1999 Capacitate (grade 8)
examinations. Following are some of the many findings of this rich analysis.
*   Household income and regularity of income has a strong effect on school attendance. In particular,
children from households with no salaried employees, employers or pensioners are three times more
likely not to attend school than children from households with a regular source of income.
* Rural schools with higher proportions of unqualified teachers have lower student performance.
* Rural schools with higher proportions of teachers who live in the same community have higher
- 5-



student performance than rural schools with higher proportions of teachers who commute.
o   All rural schools have heating facilities of some kind. Ninety percent of rural schools have
wood-burning stoves; 10% have gas or oil stoves. But most heating facilities in rural schools are
inadequate, leaving classrooms very cold in the winter.
o School furniture in 13% of rural schools is completely unsatisfactory. Although many grades 1-4
schools operate with multi- grade teaching, almost none has school furmiture that permits students to
work in clusters, as effective multi- grade teaching requires.
O Only 5 % of rural schools lack electricity - typically, because they are in villages, which lack
electricity. But many rural schools have insufficient lighting for effective education during the
winter months when natural light is inadequate.
O Most rural schools, and especially the grade 1-4 schools, have virtually no educational materials
such as maps, dictionaries and other reference books, teachers' guides, reading books, or science
materials.
o   Schools in communities, which participated in various activities of the school, have higher
performance than schools, which lack community participation.
O   In rural areas, 31% of kindergartens, 28% of grade 14 schools, and 17% of grade 1-8 schools lack
any supply of water in the school. Where schools are equipped with a water supply, very rarely is it
connected to toilet facilities. Although most rural schools have toilets or latrines of some kind, only
5% have toilet facilities with running water.
Studies conducted in preparation of the project, using Policy and Human Resource Development
(PHRD) funds, executed by the MER, identified both supply and demand related factors that explain
discrepancies. On the supply side the main factors are the lack of qualified teachers and the long time
under- investment in rural schools. On the demand side the main factor is the relative poverty of rural
areas. In addition, other factors identified were: weak school-community linkages, low capacity to
collect education data and information and to use it for policy making.
Supply factors
On the supply side the following categories of factors have been identified (Rural Education in
Romania, 2002; Barzea, 2002; Crisan 2002): human resources, infrastructure and teaching matenals,
finance and management (including school-community relationships). -
Human resources. First, rural teachers benefited less than their urban colleagues from ongoing teacher
training opportunities since these did not take into account their specific situation. Traditional
approaches to teacher training are not well suited to rural areas because of: isolation, distance to
training centers; lack of transportation; cost in relation to income; lack of cover for a teacher during
training; higher proportion of non- certified teachers; difficulty in reaching teachers through usual
communication channels (phone, fax).
As a result, the great majority of rural teachers have not been exposed to training on the new elements
in the curriculum and to changes in the assessment system. They have not therefore been brought into
contact with the new teaching skills related to these developments. Rural schools often have only
limited teaching and learning resources and the home circumstances of the students are such that there
- 6 -



are few learning opportunities out of school. Moreover, in most cases there is limitcd liaison and
cooperation between a school and its local community. However, training activities developed in the
pilot rural education component of the Education Reform project demonstrated the interest of teachers
in new approaches to learning and teaching (e g. active teaching methods and greater use of learning
materials). Directors who benefited from education management courses also expressed satisfaction.
Second, the percentage of teachers in rural areas who are fully, but not appropriately qualified and/or
are non- qualified is high. Although Romania has an excess of teachers in urban areas in certain
specializations, rural areas are faced with a chronic lack of "qualified" teachers. "Qualified" teachers in
Romania are those who have completed an accredited higher education program, which includes
pedagogic training in the subject(s) they teach. Teaching positions are filled following a competition.
Teachers with a teaching position must pass, within a few years of teaching, the Definitivat examination
which certifies them as teachers, after which they can pursue "degree 2" and "degree 1" levels as higher
degrees of professional recognition. Presently, the group of "unqualified" teachers includes: (i) teachers
without a regular teaching license, namely graduates of higher education (engineers, agricultural
specialists, lawyers) and graduates of secondary education; and (ii) teachers with a regular teaching
license, but with "out of the field" assignments. In addition, rural teachers lack access to accredited
programs that will improve their skills and their credentials. Updated data on "unqualified" teachers
should be available by appraisal.
The government has devised policies intended to attract well- qualified teachers to rural schools.
Secondary school graduates have been offered scholarships to enable them to attend university; in
exchange, the prospective students have been required to make a commitment to teach for an agreed
penod in their communities of ongin. Teachers have been provided bonuses of 5-80 percent of their
salaries for accepting appointment to a rural school. However, the impact of these measures has been
modest, so far. Of the 105,000 rural primary and secondary school teachers in Romania in 2000/2001,
about 17,000 (16%) have not completed training for accreditation. About 5,700 of these rural
unqualified teachers are already in training courses, leaving about 11,000 who have not yet pursued
further education for becoming fully qualified. This situation reflects the limited career pathways that
exist to acquire qualification.
In 2002, the MER adopted an emergency decision aimed at eliminating "unqualified" teachers from the
system. All positions previously filled in by "unqualified" teachers were offered to retired teachers
and/or to regular teachers, in the form of "additional norms". This is a temporary solution that doesn't
solve actually the "qualification" issue. "Additional norms" are appealing to regular teachers since they
are a way to increase salaries. But, they also mean less time for lessons preparation. However, the most
serious problem is that "additional norms" mean usually, in rural areas, "out-of the field" teaching (i.e. a
teacher of biology teaching English). In addition, to clarify issues related to qualification, MER will
issue a ministerial order in the next few months that will define "the special abilities and competences
most likely to define teaching as a profession" (Paun, 2002).
Basic education conditions, both in terms of facilities and teaching- learning materials, are not met by
many rural schools. Substandard conditions of facilities in rural primary schools create health nsks,
contribute to problems of incomplete school attendance and degrade teaching effectiveness and learning
achievement. They also contribute to low motivation on the part of students and teachers.
The government has made a substantial effort to rehabilitate schools. Under the School Rehabilitation
project (co- financed by the Bank and the Council of Europe Development Bank), 850 schools have
been rehabilitated thus far; about 75% of them in rural areas. 350 more schools will be rehabilitated by
the project closure. These were schools that were not safe, endangering students' lives In addition, as
-7 -



already mentioned, a significant number of rural schools lack minimum utilities water, sanitation,
heating, and lighting. This is a situation that represents a high risk for students' health and has a negative
impact on school attendance.
Schools in rural areas suffer from a chronic lack of teaching and learning materials. The shortages in
learning materials started being addressed in a pilot activity under the Education Reform project. 2,039
rural schools in eight counties received basic teaching materials (benefiting about 210,000 students), as
well as training for teachers on how to develop their own teaching materials
Education Finance. Budgetary constraints were extremely tight during the education reform period. The
level of public expenditure on education (relative to GDP) in the period 1995-2000 was 3.3 percent, the
lowest in the region, as compared with 6.8 percent in Estonia, 6.5 percent in Latvia, 5.7 percent in
Lithuania, 5.6 percent in Poland, 5.6 percent in Slovenia, 4.8 percent in Hungary, 4.6 percent in Czech
Republic, 4.2 percent in Slovak Republic and 4.0 percent in Bulgaria. Expenditures started increasing in
2001, aiming at reaching at least the minimum level of 4 percent stated in the Education Law.
The fiscal decentralization and local government reform program may put further at disadvantage rural
schools. Fiscal decentralization and capitation-based financing were conceived as means to promote
greater efficiency in the use of resources. However, special provisions for small rural schools in poor
villages were not taken yet. As the Bank Education Policy Note (2002) has documented, govemance
arrangements have not been reformed to ensure the allocation of adequate funds, or accountability for
school performance.
Fiscal decentralization seems to have been motivated more by reducing the national education budget by
transferring costs and responsibilities to local authorities, rather than by the goal of ensuring access to
quality education. The Education Reform project included a major component (Finance and
Management) to support decentralization; additional funding has been provided through a UK
Department for Intemational Development (DFID) grant. However, preparation for decentralization was
delayed for a long period of time due to lack of will across the political spectrum. In addition,
successful decentralization required the collaboration of many sectors of the govermment, but efforts to
establish cross-ministerial working groups failed. There is a wide variation in local capacity to
implement such services as education. Starting with existing inequities, they have a challenge to reach
consistent level of quality services across the country. Parents' influence of educational decisions at
local level is minimal, although they are represented on School Councils. Dunng recent years, schools
in poor rural communes have not had many opportunities for experience in negotiating with local
authorities for support. Communes lack the organizational structures and skills needed to enable broad
participation of the community, professionals and laity, in discussing and debating local education
issues. Local authorities often do not have the information or statements of broad public opinion needed
to prioritize education needs or to devise ways to get the community to support schools.
Local budgets are often too small to allow for expenditures on schools beyond earmarked funds for
salaries, textbooks, and scholarships. This problem will be compounded in the near future, when
responsibility for many services, including education, will be decentralized. If schools in poor
communities are to fulfill their mandate to educate children, they will have to take the initiative to
address their own education problems and to obtain resources locally.
Demandfactors
Demand for education is usually lower in rural areas than in urban areas. The main reason is the fact
that demand is income elastic. That is, demand rises or falls as direct and indirect costs of education nse
- 8 -



or fall relative to a family's income level. Families make choices and set priorities Demand-side
analysis through beneficiary assessment identified problems that impede school attendance of rural
students, low-income students and other marginalized or disadvantaged groups. In 1998, 40 5 percent of
persons from rural areas were living below the poverty line, while only 27.6 percentage of persons
living in urban areas were living below the poverty line (World Bank and National Commission for
Statistics, 1999). Empincal evidence shows that there are household constraints on schooling; children
participation in the subsistence agriculture as "non- remunerated family workers" represents the main
cause of the increased dropout rates in rural areas, especially at lower secondary level. 64 percent of the
dropouts are leaving school before graduating compulsory education because they need to work to
supplement family incomes. The gap in enrollment and in educational progress widened between the
non- poor and the poor, between urban and rural areas and between various socioeconomic groups.
Declining income and employment opportunities influence the decisions, including education decisions,
of poor families. Covering indirect costs of schooling by scholarships is not effective, given the low
level of available funds and tight eligibility conditions. The less visible costs to families involve: the
costs of travel to and lodging in proximity to schools and the costs of food and uniforms, or clothing.
There are also opportunity costs - namely work which children cannot perform at home when they are
at school. There is also the cash income foregone by children obtaining an education rather than
working for pay. Families need to make trade-offs with respect to the education of their children and
parents cannot afford to pay for one or more secondary school students.
The goveinment is implementing a school "Bread and Milk" program that is addressed to all pupils in
pre-pnmary and primary education. Provision of this nutritional supplement is a very positive initiative,
which is expected to contribute to better school attendance and performance, but it could also
accentuate health nsks unless the sanitary conditions in schools are improved.
School- Community Links
There is strong awareness that central authorities are limited in their ability to address local needs and
to use local capacity to meet those needs. Recently, Romania adopted policies to transfer decision
making from central to local authorities. However, communities' involvement in school management
and resource mobilization is still quite low. Consequently, schools are still very much organized around
bureaucratic efficiency. County inspectorates do not strive for educational efficiency for all, they strive
to legitimate their actions through conformance to institutional ruled. The value of small schools to the
community and children is disregarded in the face of efficiency standards. Small schools, unable to
provide quality instruction are automatically considered backward and old-fashioned. An alternative
approach, in which improved instruction is best accomplished with strong local knowledge of
individuals and community is still to be developed. Mechanisms to increase community's participation
in the school life need to be identified, as well as ways to encourage parents to become involved in
everyday life of schools. At present parents are contributing to schools through cash or in-kind, but the
goal should be to involve them more in the process of the education of their children.
Education Data, Information and Policy Making
Through studies intended to evaluate the education system, and rural education in particular, a series of
difficulties related to education data and information were identified: the lack of basic data which could
allow the indicators for quality, efficiency and outcomes of the education system to be calculated; the
insufficient accuracy of certain data, as a consequence of deficiencies in information gathering and in
staff training; and the incompatibility between the way in which certain indicators are calculated in
Romania and the way in which they are calculated by international organizations (OECD, EUROSTAT
-9-



etc.). Reliable data is not always available and incentives to provide good data do not help rural schools.
The education management information system is not well developed to monitor quality and equity in
education. It does not help MER to make fully informed decisions and formulate sound policies. There
are few instruments to do systematic and comprehensive monitoring, both for inputs (curriculum,
textbooks, school buildings, equipment), for processes (teaching, school and class organization, school
planning), and for outputs. Despite progress in school information systems through previous World
Bank support, the design of data collection needs to be improved and the system of national indicators
for education has to be changed to be in line with the intemational indicators. In Romania, both the
MER and the National Institute of Statistics collect and process educational statistics. However, the
availability of the data is limited, and some educators feel that the MER's data is not very reliable. At
the county level and below, the availability of these statistics is particularly limited, and inspectors,
school principals, and communities do not use it much for understanding local needs. At the same time,
the present National Education Database (NED) is composed of various data, collected differently by
different agencies, stored in various formats, and distnbuted among many locations and owners. Data
collection is often redundant among different units in the educational system. At present, the
INTERNET does not support communication between different levels of the educational hierarchy.
Consequently, the upper levels of the hierarchy only have access to outdated data, and MER only has
access to aggregated data, not school-level data. Developing a new report or an analysis requires weekcs
of communication and data processing across the education hierarchy.
Second, public education is often biased against the poor and the situation is only partially revealed by
official data. The education system has inherited a tradition of reliance on formal administrative records
that often do not reflect the situation on the ground. There is substantial information on enrollment
rates, but little on actual school attendance, or school completion rates, despite increasing evidence that
in certain areas school attendance is sporadic and dropouts have increased sharply. Teachers, principals
and school inspectors have all the incentives not to report and even to hide this type of data that would
reflect badly on their activity. Instead of honestly recognizing the situation and seeking support to solve
problems, realities are "covered". Likewise, repetition rates are low (on average 3.9 percent in rural
areas), due to the inherited policy of automatic promotion in order to hide failures and avoid
overspending.
Thirdly, although the national assessment capacity for implementing sample-based studies of student
learning and national examinations is considerable, Romania is not fully using the results. The country
is involved in international assessments - TIMSS, PISA (Project for International Students'
Assessment), and PIRLS (Progress in International Reading and Literacy Study) - and has conducted its
own grade four assessment in 1998 and 2000. Additional studies in all four programs are planned during
the next three years. However, national funding for continuing participation in these studies is not yet
secured, and to date Romania has not been able to undertake any secondary analyses of the rich
databases that past studies provided, particularly with respect to the differences between urban and rural
students. Other Government-sponsored research on primary and secondary education has been limited
to studies sponsored by one institution, the Institute of Education Sciences (IES), and universities
throughout the country do not have a tradition of studying educational issues. Some private institutions
are partially filling this lack with studies sponsored by nongovernmental sources. In general, there is no
national network of researchers studying the problems of rural primary and secondary education,
reflecting on the findings, and sharing these findings with policy-makers.
The mentioned deficiencies generate the risk of incomplete evaluations and even of distorting the
reality, with negative effects on education policies. The lack of empirical information about the
- 10-



problems of rural education in Romania and the lack of a strong community of educators to reflect on
problems are reinforced by the extent to which factors outside the education sector may influence
decisions about education. The urgency of political pressure to solve immediate problems, of decisions
on decentralization and community development priorities, and of international demands for
information or program involvement tend to crowd out deliberate, careful analysis for decision-making.
Also, at the county level and below, managers do not have the information, skills, or experience to use
objective empirical data (from statistics and research) in making decisions. As the management of
education is becoming more decentralized, local decisions on allocations of resources for primary and
secondary education are demonstrating the importance of more objective analyses and understanding at
local levels.
Not only are there problems of information availability and of the skills and will to use it. At the
moment there does not appear to be any institution in Romania that has an overview of the sector and
that could provide an effective coordinating link among the sources of information and between those
who study and report on the system and decision-makers. More specifically, at both the national and
local levels in Romania, empirical information - statistics, assessment results, and other research results
- are not used effectively to understand the problems of rural education and to help identify possible
solutions to those problems. If the improvements in rural education that are sought with current
investments are to be sustained over the longer term, the capacity to understand the problems
objectively, to assess their impact on students, and to inform decision-makers needs to be strengthened
now.
Central and local authority's leadership
MER identified the urgent need to address equity issues, and took a series of consistent measures. In
1999, a Program for Educational Development in Rural Areas was initiated. A National Council for
Development of Education in Rural Areas was established in September 2000. In 2000, the ISE
developed a comprehensive study of rural schools: "Rural Education in Romania: Conditions, Issues
and Development Strategies". In 2000, the government and the Bank agreed to re-allocate $11.5 million
from an ongoing Education Reform project for a Rural Education pilot component, in view of learning
lessons useful for a future project. Under this new component, basic teaching materials and teacher
training were provided to rural schools in eight counties. Beneficiaries were 208,107 students from
2039 schools An impact study has been prepared that identified initial effects and summed up relevant
experience (Impact Assessment, 2002). In April 2000, the Romanian government asked the Bank's
support for obtaining a grant for the identification and preparation of the Rural Education project. The
Anti-Poverty, Promotion and Social Inclusion Commission has included rural education in its Poverty
Alleviation Strategy. The main problems dealt with are: access to education, abandonment, unqualified
teachers, lack of professional counseling, and low value of education.
In 2001, MER started implementing a school consolidation and busing program. So far 200 rural
schools have been consolidated, 195 school buses have been purchased to serve 5,600 students from
rural areas where a village school has been closed and children have been transferred to a larger center
(180 such centers are currently operating). In 2002, the school consolidation process continues and
another 195 mini buses are being procured and distributed to schools. Starting with 2001, the
Government initiated a program that provides standard packages of student supplies to students from
poor families. In 2002, the program "Bread and Milk" for pnmary students started throughout the
country. In 2003 the program was extended to cover also preschoolers.
- 11 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address three main issues:
(i) The much larger proportion of students performning poorly in rural as compared with urban areas, as
evidenced by assessments and examinations results.
(ii) The lower attendance, promotion, completion, transition rates in rural areas as compared with urban
areas.
(iii) The weakness of institutional structures in identifying equity issues in education and developing
adequate strategies to confront it.
These issues would be addressed by:
a. Improving the teaching and learning process in rural areas. The project would: (i) provide school-
based professional development for teachers; (ii) support the career development of rural teachers; and
(iii) ensure that minimum standards are met for school utilities, furniture and basic teaching materials.
b. Strengthening linkages between schools and communities. The project would increase local
participation in addressing problems of school quality through a school-community grants (SCG)
program.
c. Strengthening the capacity of MER and local authorities to monitor equity issues in education,
disseminate information on the perfornance of schools, and formulate strategies and policies to improve
leaming.
Teaching and learning in rural schools. The project will improve teaching and learning in rural schools
by improving teachers' skills and qualifications and by providing the basic facilities and materials
required for efficient instruction. The project will seek to stimulate rural teachers to be active in finding
better ways to meet the needs of their students and show them how to implement a number of the more
innovative features of the new curricula. Teachers will not only need to master the subject matter being
taught, but also will need to deepen their understanding of student needs and of the learning process
itself. The number of "unqualified" teachers in rural areas is high. This is partly due to the lack of interest
of qualified teachers to work in rural schools; at present about 25,000 posts in the system are not filled by
a tenured teacher. Approximately 20 percent of rural schools employ commuting teachers. The
commitment and professionalism of these teachers are more likely to erode over time if they do not
develop close links with the communities they serve.
In order to continuously increase their effectiveness, teachers must learn from their own experiences and
the experiences of others, through on-going inquiry and reflection. This process can be facilitated
through the development of "communities of practice" in which teachers discuss their work and the work
of colleagues in a systematic way.
The project will improve basic conditions in rural primary schools. It is expected that better school
conditions will contribute to solving problems of school attendance and will increase teaching
effectiveness and learning achievement by motivating students and teachers. The project will support
investments both in center commune schools (usually grade 1-8) and in smaller schools in nearby villages
(usually grade 14). Allocation of the funds will be made so as to maintain an appropriate balance
between project investments in center commune schools and investments in smaller village schools.
Linkages between schools and communities. The project will promote a participatory approach
recognizing the importance of traditional and nontraditional partners in changing both the demand for
and the supply of education in rural areas. The project will help to develop a collaborative local
environment that helps make schools accountable to communities for the education services they provide.
- 12 -



Engaging all stakeholders in support of rural education will "democratize" the civic, social and economic
opportunities for students in each community. The approach has already been tried in Romania and
proved to be successful. Education pilot projects financed by NGOs and other donors encouraged
community participation. Community based initiatives assisted through the Bank supported Social
Development Fund program have lead to increased social capital as a result of the learning by doing
process. Solutions and projects will be locally designed. Capacity building (leadership, technical and
operational) will be strengthened, assisting local institutions in their new role of supporting education
Monitoring and evaluation capacLty. A well-organized educational system includes a monitoring system
for measuring the results in terms of the learning process, channels through which the information may
travel throughout the system and databases, meant both to facilitate better decisions on the part of the
education managers and to serve the public at large. In this context, strengthening monitoring, evaluation
and policy- making capacity at the local, county and central level is a necessity. This will improve the
capacity for management for results, based upon data and information on educational outcomes that is
continuously collected and analyzed and a range of policies and decisions that ensure quality education,
equity and efficiency. Also, improving the monitoring, evaluation and policy-making system must lead to
greater transparency and publicity, so that the public should be constantly informed about the
performances and problems of the education system. These performances and results will be for
everybody to see, that is for parents, teachers, students, managers, researchers, civilians, a fact which will
improve the quality of public professional and scientific discussions on education problems and will
provide the basis for developing educational policies in keeping with the society's needs, with the new
requirements resulted from the social progress in a democratic society based on a free market.
The desired situation assumes: data is available instantly at any level in the educational hierarchical
structure; all data is centralized in a unified database - this makes all data available at national level;
therefore data is available all over the country; part of data is distributed in county educational databases
- this makes for redundancy and data is more secure, and for easier access from county educational
structures; updates to the database are automated and use INTERNET as a communication root; powerful
analysis tools applied to this complete set of primary data are available to support decision makers at all
levels; collection of raw-data from the educational system; all data is centralized in the form in which it
is collected and primary, non- interpreted data is stored in educational databases; this allows for statistics
to be created on-demand at any level; collection of raw data requires that each school report all the
information required; the update needs to be automated.
MER and local authorities' policy- making capacity. The project will support steps to enhance the use of
quantitative information in diagnostic studies and policy analyses as well as for impact assessments.
Databases will focus on outcomes, rather than inputs or processes. Deficiencies in data, policy
frameworks, institutional capacity and financial resources in addressing equity issues will be identified.
The capacity for institutional evaluation, as well as for evaluation of specific programs and policies will
be increased. Professionalism and management capacity of MER and local authorities for conscious
policy-making will be strengthened; the capacity of the counties to identify and assist poorly performing
schools and formulate strategies and policies to improve learning will be increased. Engagement at the
local level will be ensured through Local Education Committees set up at the communes level; the
communes will define education problems and priority needs. National, county and local level decision
makers will be supported to acquire analysis and planning skills. Research and analytic capacities in
national institutions and among educators will be improved.
- 13-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
It is envisaged that the project objective of making rural schools students benefit from improved access to
quality education will be achieved through four components:
Component 1: Improve teaching and learning in rural schools.
Component 2: Improve school- community partnerships.
Component 3: Strengthen monitoring, evaluation and policy- making capacity.
Component 4: Strengthen project management capacity.
Component 1: Improve Teaching and Learning in Rural Schools ($67.91 million)
The objective of this component is to develop the professional competences of rural teachers and to
improve basic education conditions in schools. Since education inputs have a significant effect on
students' achievements, this component will focus on teachers, teaching/learning materials and school
utilities. Under this component, the following sub-components will be implemented: (1.1.) school-based
teachers' professional development; (1.2.) career development opportunities for teachers; (1.3.) basic
education conditions in schools; (1.4) teaching- learning materials.
Sub- component 1.1: School- Based Teachers Professional Development ($12.08 million)
The objective of this sub- component is to support a conceptual and practical change in teaching that is
critical to the improvement of student learning. Rural schools will have better access to methods,
materials and opportunities for school-based professional development of their teachers. The sub-
component will: (i) expose teachers to new ideas on how to improve learning; (ii) provide teachers and
schools with learning resources for use in increasing knowledge of classroom management, instructional
strategies, teaching methods and student assessment; and (iii) support teachers to design, implement and
evaluate experiments in improving teaching. Special attention will be given to the idea that all children
can learn and that the task of the teacher is to identify learning experiences that motivate the student and
accommodate his or her learning needs. The project will also encourage the active involvement and
support of school principals and other staff and seek to secure the support of their local communities for
the change taking place in schools.
Although the necessity of strengthening the teaching profession is system-wide, this program will only
address needs in rural areas. Since teachers cannot easily attend traditional in-service teacher training
programs due to distance, lack of transportation means and of funds to cover high attendance costs,
training will come to teachers instead of teachers traveling to training. The school-based teacher
professional development will foster greater relevance of teacher training to school and students needs,
will stress teamwork, systematic evaluation of results and sharing of experiences. It will also aim at
expanding knowledge of alternative teaching methods, particularly those that emphasize student centered
teaching, individualization, teaching for understanding and development of critical thinking skills.
School-based training will also encourage teachers and principals to improve the general educational
"climate" of the school, through learning and knowledge sharing. The criteria to be used in evaluating
innovations will include not only academic performance, but also objective measurements of student and
community satisfaction with the schooling experience.
Under the sub- component, schools in a commune will be grouped in a cluster and training will be
offered to all teachers in the cluster, including those who are non-qualified or do not have appropriate
- 14 -



qualification. School-based activities will normally be conducted in the main school of the commune and
may, where appropriate, be conducted in any of the other schools of the commune. The project will
provide Mobile Resource Centers (MRC) with basic equipment and instructional materials. The MRCs
will allow mentors to visit schools and facilitate training. The outreach concept is essential both to send a
message of care, enabling the participation of those teachers who would otherwise be unable to attend
training courses. The training will bring to such teachers stimulation to innovate, plus direct support for
what they attempt in the classroom. Fixed site resource centers will be supported only in the case of
coordinating schools resulting from school consolidation to enable outreach mentors and class teachers to
be better assisted. In this case, basic equipment will be provided to the coordinating school.
The approach to professional development will emphasize guided activity by the teachers, who will
actively seek solutions to problems. This will increase their sense of ownership of the new approaches to
learning and teaching and extend their professional skills. The work will focus on needs as perceived by
the teachers and will use teamwork and discussion among the teachers wherever appropriate. The
mentors will assist teachers to identify their needs; plan how they will address them; be a resource to
solve implementation problems; and ensure continuity of development. There will therefore be regular
visits from the mentors to monitor progress and implementation; assist in the solution of problems; and
assist the teachers to plan the next stage of development, with the intention that the cluster meetings
should become a valuable resource.
The pnmary focus for professional development is the development in the schools of interactive,
student-centered teachiig; continuous assessment in the classroom; and adaption of the curriculum to the
rural environment. A secondary but important focus will be to assist with problems that are frequently
found in rural schools, such as multi-grade teaching, learning support and Romanian as a second
language. Other modules concerned with such topics as learning about students' backgrounds, using
computers to learn and teach and school management may be also included, as the need may arise.
Training modules and materials will be devised to address these needs in a teacher-centered way. The
precise mode of application of the modules will however depend on the circumstances of the cluster.
Incentives for teachers to participate in traimng have been developed. Experience with NGO projects
suggests that rural teachers will welcome the chance to participate in quality trainings, but it will be
important to gain their sustained comnumtment to the substantial effort that will be required of them in
changing their teaching practices. Thus, the planned training modules and, more particularly, how they
will be delivered (recognition to the development work, often in teams, that teachers will undertake; the
processes of self-evaluation and reflection that they will implement, and the tnal that they will undertake
in the classroom) will get accreditation from the National Center for Teacher Training. The guiding
pnnciples and speed of expansion of the school- based professional development in rural schools will be
reviewed and agreed after the initial phase is completed.
This approach to training is based on a body of mentors whose skills and approach have been adapted to
a teacher-centered, school-based mode of professional development. Suitable teachers and other
educators will be recruited to become mentors. Mentors will benefit from relevant incentives that will
enable them to effectively undertake their tasks and stay in their mentoring jobs, such as attractive
salaries and allowances and reserved jobs with secondments. Mentors will be able to call on the
assistance of expert subject teachers where they judge that to be needed. Such teachers will be released
by their schools to undertake this work on an ad hoc basis.
The proposed methodology of professional development will require that teachers are free to meet with
the mentor and are able to engage in teamwork and reflection without the pressures of keeping classes in
operation. Schools will use the facility granted to them by the MER to designate methodological days
- 15-



that can be used for training purposes.
The mentors, the principal and inspectors will assess teachers participating in the program. Following
positive results in assessments, teachers will receive transferable professional credits that will account for
the in-service training that all teachers are supposed to undertake periodically (every 5 years), according
to the law
Early in project implementation a suitable contractor will be selected to: (i) recruit and manage the
mentors, (ii) develop training modules and materials; (iii) arrange and monitor the fieldwork; and (iv)
ensure suitable feedback to MER. Since it is important to ensure that inspectors are familiar with the new
school based support, inspectors will join school cluster meetings and classrooms visits whenever
possible.
School-based professional development is new to Romania and in its initial stages there will be a need to
refine the plans in light of experience in the schools. Thus, the initial number of schools involved will be
sufficient to prove the approach in a variety of settings, but small enough to allow close attention to
experience with a view to perfecting the techniques and materials in the actual Romanian rural schools.
The contractor will monitor the process and will prepare a report with recommendations after sufficient
experience had been gained; feedback from the first wave of schools on their experience; and
independent evaluation of the process will be built in from the outset. The guiding principles and speed
of expansion of the school- based professional development in rural schools will be reviewed and agreed
after the initial phase is completed. The aim will be to improve the training progressively, so that during
the life of the project quality opportunities for professional development had been offered to all teachers
in rural schools in Romania.
After mentors have worked with a cluster for a complete school session, the inspectorate will encourage
continuing activity by the teachers in the cluster. Mentors also will visit the cluster, but on a much less
frequent basis, to help sustain their work.
Mentors will hold regular workshops for sharing experience and coordinating activities. In order to
influence the inclusion of the new interactive methodologies in pre- service teachers training, the
workshops will be held in universities with university staff participating in discussions and in evaluations
of new activities taking place in schools.
The sub-component will be implemented by the mentors, in cooperation with the selected contractor,
under the coordination of the PMU.
Sub- component 1.2: Career Development Opportunities for Teachers ($3.41 million)
The objective of the sub-component is to assist rural teachers to obtain formal qualifications as teachers
for compulsory education through an Open Distance Learning (ODL) program. The target group: (i)
subject teachers graduates from university who are also teaching subjects outside their subject area; (ii)
graduates of higher education from non- teaching streams, who have some subject knowledge, but did
not have pedagogical training (e.g. engineers, agricultural and administration specialists); (iii) graduates
of upper secondary education who do not have training for teaching in primary schools (grades I-IV).
These teachers usually live in the community or nearby and are not likely to leave the place once they get
qualification. Qualification of this staff is not only going to increase the quality of instruction, but will
also encourage the long-term commitment to the community and teaching profession, since at present,
teachers from the last two categories may only be hired on a year to year basis, to fill staffing gaps.
- 16-



The program to improve teacher's skills through training for qualifications will serve primary and
secondary school teachers who satisfy the following critena. having taught for a minimum of two out of
the last three years in a rural school; having been offered a contract with a rural school that gives him/her
a position as a teacher in the school, as long as the teacher successfully completes the program. In return,
the applicant will commit to complete the program and to teach in schools in the commune for at least 4
years after receiving a diploma.
The qualification process will result not only in more qualified teachers, but also in a higher retention
rate for effective teachers in rural schools. Presently, unqualified teachers are those more likely to accept
living in rural community. Often these people were bom and have families and houses in the community.
Some are professionals that became unemployed in cities and moved back to communities of origin.
More non- commuting teachers will mean a greater chance for the school to develop the education
climate that requires more time from teachers than the time spent during class teaching. The qualification
process may also lead to a reduction of teaching positions, qualified teachers being able to assume more
responsibilities.
The program implementation will include two activities: (i) program design to be undertaken by
professors from universities/institutions with ODL programs and to be further adopted by universities
interested in provision of training; and (ii) provision of tuition fees to participants to pay for the course,
materials and for taking examinations. The activities to be implemented in the first area will be
undertaken by professors from universities/institutions selected as consultants. They will develop a
national curriculum framework for training practicing teachers and will design matenals and software.
Training will include along with more traditional syllabi, modules specific to teaching in rural areas, such
as teaching multi- grade classrooms, community-based approaches in teaching reading and writing etc.
Universities with ODL programs interested in delivenng the training will adopt the curriculum and will
get accreditation for the program. The MER will administer the tuition fees program. Links with
sub-component 1. 1 will be established by involving, as much as possible, mentors in guidance and
monitoring activities.
The envisaged outcomes are: (i) a national ODL program for teachers that will be available through a
web-based program of learning modules, and also in print and recorded media (diskettes and/or tapes),
for rural teachers without access to the INTERNET; (ii) the successful completion of the program by up
to 4000 practicing teachers from the above mentioned three categories; and (iii) strengthened capacities
for training teachers through ODL in the universities that get accreditation to deliver the program.
This sub- component will be implemented by the selected consultants and by universities, under the
coordination of the PMU.
Sub- component 1.3: Basic Education Conditions in Schools ($34.42 million)
The objective of this sub- component is to upgrade education conditions in the most deprived rural
schools to a minimum functioning standard. The MER has made an inventory of rural school and
prepared a list of schools that do not meet minimum standards for sanitation, water, lighting or heating,
or for provision of the most basic school furniture. National education standards clearly state minimum
requirements, but until now few rural schools could comply with them, given shortages of funds and the
general poor state of utilities in rural areas. Many schools were not able to get the hygiene permit to
function and have only a temporary approval.
- 17 -



Resources under this sub-component are focused on the most urgent needs and schools to be upgraded
are to be selected under an objective and transparent process MER has prepared an initial list of about
1,500 schools that are proposed to be upgraded under the project. Schools were selected and pnoritized
according to three cnteria: (i) the severity of the school deprivation; and (ii) the number of students
enrolled; and (iii) the poverty of the community. Prior to Board submission, using PHRD grant funds, an
independent evaluation of the schools from the list will be conducted, for identification of inclusion and
exclusion errors. A sample of schools from the list and outside the list will be used. If the level of errors
identified is significant, MER will have to revise the list and resubmit it to the Bank. In this case, a new
independent evaluation will be conducted, using project funds. Disbursements under this sub-component
will be subject to no objection from the Bank to the list of schools to be upgraded. The exact number of
schools to be upgraded under this sub- component will depend on the actual costs of upgrading selected
schools. These costs will not be known before the preparation of detailed plans for upgrading. Once the
prioritization of schools is agreed, rehabilitation will be carried out starting with the highest pnority
needs, until the funds allocated to this sub-component are exhausted.
The project will support rehabilitation of selected rural schools in four priority areas: (i) upgraded water
and toilet facilities; (ii) upgraded heating facilities; (iii) improved lighting; and (iv) improved school
furniture (benches, chairs and blackboards). The specific rehabilitation tasks to be carried out in each
school are to be developed in the detailed plans, which consultants are to prepare for each school. MER
has already adopted professional design standards for each aspect of school construction and
rehabilitation. These standards, which provide for the technical soundness and safety of structures, were
used in the School Rehabilitation Project. In order to promote cost effective solutions that comply with
mandatory design standards, but reduce costs without in any way compromising the functionality of the
facilities, MER commissioned the preparation of a Manual on Appropriate Solutions for Upgrading
Schools. The Manual will be used to help guide the preparation of cost-effective upgrading plans for
schools. The Manual is to provide recommendations based on the lessons learned under the School
Rehabilitation project, and is to suggest the simplest solutions that are responsive to the needs in the
selected schools. It will, for example, provide guidance on when installation of heating systems may be
justified in preference to repair or replacement of individual stoves, and when repair of windows may be
appropriate in order to retain heat in the classroom. A separate Handbook on maintenance will be
developed under the project to include guidelines and norms for communities on maintenance and
management of school utilities. The Manual will be published under the project and disseminated to all
interested design companies. The Handbook will be published and distributed to schools and local
authorities. Actual solutions to be used in individual schools will be discussed with teachers, parents and
local authorities. After designs are prepared, stakeholders will again be consulted to make sure that
designs are responding to needs and are correlated with resources available within communities.
This sub- component will be implemented by the PMU of the School Rehabilitation project and its
regional and county level structures.
Sub-component 1.4: Teaching-Learning Materials ($18.01 million)
The objective of this component is to ensure access of rural students to basic teaching- leaming
materials.
Under the subcomponent, all schools participating in the School-Based Professional Development
program will receive teaching-learning materials, to be used in classrooms (e.g. booklets, posters, maps)
and by the school (books, science equipment, sports materials). Approximately 8,000 primary schools
and 4,000 secondary schools will be able to reach a minimum standard regarding teaching-learning
materials. These are schools that had not already benefited from the provision of materials from the
- 18 -



Rural Pilot component of the Education Reformn project Schools will choose educational materials
relevant to the new curricula from a select catalog, prepared by MER. Orders will be collected by
mentors and centralized by the PMU that will do the procurement. Distribution will be performed using
MER's textbooks warehouses.
In addition, under this sub-component, the efficiency of the activity of textbooks and teaching- learning
materials warehouses will be increased. Basic equipment (computers, printers and copiers) will be
provided to warehouses in each county, thus improving the registration and monitoring system for
textbooks and materials.
This sub-component will be implemented by the mentors and the PMU.
Component 2: Improve School- Community Partnerships ($11.93 million)
The objective of this component is to empower rural schools and communities in order to develop a
broad collaborative environment supportive of education. The component will both improve the
governance of schools and increase the contribution of schools to communities by encouraging and
enabling schools and local authorities to work together to identify pnornties, to diagnose problems and to
formulate and implement solutions. Local Education Councils (LECs) will be set up at the level of each
commune, involving the mayor and representatives of: (i) the School Management Council (SMC) of all
the schools from the commune cluster; (ii) the local council; and (iii) the local firms and other local
organizations. This component will include an outreach and behavior change, communication and
sensitization activity through which schools and communities will be assisted by facilitators in discussing
education needs and in preparing their own school improvement plans, as well as school improvement
projects. School improvement projects will be financed through competitive grants. The LECs will be
involved in managing planned activities including mobilizing community resources.
A School- Community Grants Program (SCG) will offer support to teachers, students, parents and the
community at large for implementing local initiatives. The SCG will promote a "learning by doing
approach" and will empower various stakeholders through greater access to information, broader
participation in decision making, increased accountability to clients and increased local capacity to
govern and manage schools.
Three categories of sub- projects will be supported: (i) sub- projects promoting students participation and
providing support to disadvantaged students; (ii) sub- projects supporting the improvement of teachers'
performance; and (iii) sub- projects strengthening partnerships, opening the school to the community and
providing small repairs.
For example, sub- projects in the first category will include activities that develop critical thinking,
support student group projects, and offer mentoring to disadvantaged students. Sub-projects in the
second category will include activities to support collaboration between teachers, innovation in teaching
strategies, development of educational materials, participation in cluster training. Sub-projects in the
third category will include the use of school facilities to promote relationships between the school and
the community, small school repairs, extracurricular activities supported by parents, cultural and social-
educational activities.
The SMC will define, in consultation with the LEC, the sub- project objective(s) and will designate the
Sub-Project Team (SPT). The SPT will have at least three members, including the school principal, a
teacher and a representative of the community (possibly a parent).
- 19-



Grants will be awarded in all counties, although the amount available to each county will be related to
the county index (detailed in Annex 2 and the Operational Manual) and, starting with the second year of
financing, related also to the evidence of county councils allocation of an increasing agreed percentage of
non- project related funds to contribute to the long-term financial sustainability of the program. Grants
will be available to all rural schools in a county, although competition will be tougher for low risk
schools (access to 20 percent of funds) and medium risk schools (access to 30 percent of funds), while
high risk schools will have access to 50 percent of funds. The school risk index is detailed in Annex 2
and in the Operational Manual. Grants will be awarded on a matching basis, applicants being asked to
contribute, in kind or financially, at least 10 percent of the total sub-project cost. The average grants
value is US$4,000 and the ceiling of the grant value is US$7,000. Since the sub-project costs may vary
significantly, the number of grants to be awarded cannot be predicted. However, it is estimated that at
least 2,500 grants will be awarded dunng the life of the project.
The evaluation of proposals at the county level will be performed by the county Commission for
Education Innovation and Development (CEIDs) to include members of the existing County Comnuission
for Establishing the Annual Average Education Costs. The CEID should include the chief inspector (or
the deputy) of the school inspectorate and the president (or the deputy) of the county councils and to be
in charge in the future with the education development and innovation budgets. The CEID plays the role
of a decentralized steering committee for this project component. It is expected that after the closing of
the project, the CEIDs will have the responsibility of organizing and monitoring the competitions for
grants in their jurisdiction.
The promotion of the competitions will be done through a series of county level seminars involving all
principals of rural schools. In addition, facilitators that will train LECs and SPTs will use promotion
materials. The eligibility and selection criteria for sub-projects are detailed in Annex 2 and in the
Operational Manual.
At each round of competition, sub-project proposals cleared by LECs are sent by SPTs to the PMU. The
PMU will: (i) group proposals by county; (ii) encode proposals; and assign appraisers from a different
county than the county of origin. After receiving back the recommendations for financing, the PMU will
un-code proposals and send them back to the county of origin. CEIDs will analyze the recommendations
and approve them in special meeting. Minutes of the meeting and the final list of approved sub-projects
will be sent to the PMU. The PMU will get the MER's minister decision and will conclude the Grant
Agreements (GA). The PMU and the receiving SPT represented by the school pricipal, as well as the
appropriate financial legal authority of the school will sign the GA. The GA specifies the disbursement
tranches. The supervision of sub-project will be conducted by the county project implementation unit
(CPRJ); based on the CPIU supervision report that certifies fulfillment of conditions, the PMU will
release subsequent tranches of financing.
The Bank will do ex-ante reviews of the criteria and procedures as applied in the competitions by each
CEID. A sample of accepted and rejected grant proposals will be reviewed during the first two rounds of
competitions organized by all CEIDs.
The outputs sought through the implementation of the component are: greater community participation in
rural education; tested models for the local distribution and allocation of resources for education;
improved quality of educational delivery (improved teacher and student attendance, more time spent on
tasks, a ncher array of local resources in schools etc.); experience at local level in expressing own needs
and in project preparation and implementation.
This component will be schools and communities, under the coordination of the CEIDs, the PMU and its
- 20 -



CPIUs and School Inspectorates.
Component 3: Strengthen Monitoring, Evaluation and Policy Making Capacity ($3.34 million)
The overall objective of this component is to ensure the sustainability of educational reforms by
strengthening the MER's analytical capacity at national and local levels for policy analysis and
formulation, as well as for planning and evaluation. These objectives will be achieved through
establishing the National Education Indicators Set, improving the National Education Data Base, and
prepanng a National Assessment of Basic Education.
Establishing the National Education Indicators Set (NEI). The objective of establishing the NEI is to
select and define an agreed-upon set of education indicators for monitoring and tracking the performance
of the Romanian education system, including indicators that allow comparisons between urban and rural
education. The outcomes will be: (i) a booklet descnbing the indicators and their use, distributed and
explained to education policy-makers, administrative staff, and teachers; (ii) a network of experts in the
system, led by a coordinating unit in the MER, who understand and are able to use the indicators to
assess system performance at all levels and to compare the performance of rural education with the rest
of the system; and (iii) basic computer skills certified for all involved personnel.
The MER will establish a full-time working group of at least three persons reporting to the Minister to
lead all the activities under Component 3. The unit will work with MER's specialized departments, the
National Institute of Statistics (NIS), the ISE, and others to carry out the work on education indicators.
Tasks identified include studying indicators in other countries in the European Community, assessing the
adequacy and accuracy of current education data in Romania, defining the indicators with the raw data
that will be needed to calculate them, reviewing and revising the indicators with comments from
throughout the education system, revising data collection formats and procedures as needed, and
prepanng and sharing a booklet that explains the indicators and their use.
Irmproving the National Education Database (NED). The National Education Database will improve the
existing NED to reflect the new indicators that will be established and to make it accessible to
stakeholders throughout the country. The outcomes sought are a revised national computerized education
database; procedures, rules and regulations on accessing the NED; and open access to the database for
MER officials, other central managers and policy-makers, county inspectorates, and local school and
administrative officials. The database will contain raw data on the education system, at least for
compulsory education; processed educational indicators in easily read formats, broken down at least by
county and by rural/urban areas; results of national students' assessments, evaluations and examinations
with similar breakdowns; and an electronic library of research results on education in Romania.
The shift from a traditional database of education statistics to one based on indicators and accessible to
large numbers of people will require significant improvements over the current improved system. The
pnmary system for data collection (formats, transmission, processing) will need to be reviewed and
redesigned to meet the new needs. Communications systems using the INTERNET and the MER's
platform RoEduNet (Romania Education Network) will need to be strengthened and designed to allow
participation by most rural schools which may not have access to the INTERNET. Computing skills and
analytic capacities of all personnel in the system, particularly at the county level and below, will need to
be strengthened, and publications on-line and in print must be made succinct enough and simple enough
for everyone to use. The central coordinating unit will oversee this work, much of it to be done by staff
elsewhere in MER; and it will rely locally on a professional who will be selected in each county to help
implement the activities during the design and trial phase and then provide coordination for access and
- 21 -



dissemination once the system is in place. In order to be able to participate fully, all the administrative
staff at both the local and central levels will be trained to obtain the European Computer Driving License
(ECDL).
Preparing a National Assessment of Basic Education. The MER has decided to undertake an overall
assessment of Basic Education (grades 1-10) using information on indicators from the NED, student
assessment results on national examinations and in the international student achievement studies in
which Romania is participating, and commissioned studies of specific issues. The objectives of preparing
a National Assessment of Basic Education (NABE) are twofold: (i) to provide the opportunity for a
national public dialogue on the Romanian Education system after 10 years of reform; and (ii) to provide
an empirical analysis of the performance of the Basic Education system upon which to plan further
improvements in Romanian Basic Education, particularly for the rural population. The project will
support activities related to carrying out this assessment. It is planned that the following activities will be
initiated, coordinated, and used by the national coordination team to prepare a published report that can
be discussed and disseminated in 2008: the existing teams working on the PISA, TIMSS, and PIRLS
international student assessment programs will complete Romania's participation in these studies; MER
will conduct a national assessment of student achievement in grade 4 in 2003 and 2006, as it did in 1998;
and it will sponsor a national school effectiveness study using existing student achievement data from
Romania's own and the international achievement studies. The results of all these studies will be used to
analyze progress on educational reforms and their impact on rural areas. Also, as the student achievement
studies progress, MER will prepare and sponsor related studies that will explore locally issues identified
by these studies, including a multi-year school-based longitudinal study on this project's interventions
using baseline information to be collected durng the next school year (2003/2004). Starting in 2006
MER will publish an annual national synthetic report on the system using the indicators and national
database that will be established by then. The national annual report will draw on county reports that will
also be the basis for each county preparing an annual plan based on system performance.
The national coordinating unit will be responsible for planning and overseeing the details of the work to
be undertaken in support of the National Assessment. The research studies will be contracted to
Romanian institutions such as the National Assessment and Examination Service, the ISE,
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), and/or institutions of higher education. Technical assistance,
both local and international, will be needed for some of the studies and has been budgeted. As this work
progresses, the national coordinating unit will conduct seminars and workshops that will discuss the
implications of all studies, national and local, in order to frame the content of, prepare, and disseminate
the planned report that will report conclusions on the performance of Basic Education (the National
Assessment) and recommend policies and programs for continuing the reform movement in Basic
Education. Dissemination will include regional seminars, a national conference, and wide availability to
the public of the written report.
The products of this sub-component on assessing the system are expected to include the published
results of the PISA, TIMSS, PIRLS and 4th grade assessment studies; published studies on school
effectiveness, on project influence on school performance, and other local studies that explore questions
raised by the assessment test results and the other studies; a report of the National Assessment of Basic
Education; published annual and semester reports on the education and training system from each county;
and a methodology and experience for annual education planning at county school inspectorates and
schools.
Component 4: Strengthen Project Management Capacity ($6.56 million)
- 22 -



The objective of this component is to provide support to project implementation, including project
monitoring and evaluation and to ensure that all stakeholders and the public at large are informed about
the project.
Under this component: (i) implementation units will be assisted; (ii) the project monitoring and
evaluation activities will be assured; and (iii) an information, education and communication strategy for
increasing the awareness of policy and decision makers and generating stakeholders' support will be
implemented (including policy advocacy and opinion-making).
Support to implementation units. The PMUs have already been established to coordinate project
activities. During project implementation, the PMUs will ensure the general coordination between MER's
departments and various institutions involved in the project (school inspectorates, local authorities,
NGOs). The PMUs will be responsible for making sure that procurement, financing and reporting
activities are done according to Bank guidelines. Under this component, the PMU will be supported. The
School Rehabilitation PMU and its decentralized units that are implementing sub- component 1 3 will
also get assistance, as well as the CPIUs, the decentralized arms of the PMU, engaged mainly in the
implementation of component 2.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring activities will be based on the MIS already existing with
the PMU. Evaluation activities will also include commissioning beneficiary assessments, surveys and
focus groups.
Information Education Communication. The information, education and communication activities will be
based on a strategy already commissioned by MER. They will include: organizing workshops and
seminars; development, production and distribution of dissemination materials; production of TV and
radio programs etc. These activities will be coordinated by the PMU and will be implemented at national
and local levels.
This component will cover: (i) the costs of the central PMU functioning, training and technical
assistance; (ii) the costs of the School Rehabilitation PMU functioning, training and technical assistance;
(iii) the costs of the CPIUs functioning; (iv) the costs of the annual audits; (v) the costs of the monitonng
and evaluation activities; (vi) the costs of implementing the Information Education Communication
(IEC) strategy.
D X w_ t.r'ej  n-~ -~ .  .   t-^ .---e          Indicative,.   .      Bank-     % of'
-Components''   7'   .         - Costs - -;- of--of  financing  Bank-'
.|--;   - .-. S  - -.  -    ;-  -   -         -   (US$M)    -Total  ,-(US$M) `financing:
1. Improve Teaching and Learning in Rural Schools  67.91      74.6     47.25      78.8
2. Improve School Community Partnerships            11.93     13.1      8.22      13.7
3. Strengthen Monitoring, Evaluation and Policy Making  3.34   3.7      2.53       4.2
Capacity
4. Strengthen Project Management Capacity            6.56      7.2      0.74       1.2
5. Unallocated                                       1.26      1.4      1.26       2.1
Total Project Costs  91.00   100.0     60.00     100.0
Front-end fee   0.00       0.0      0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required  91.00     100.0     60.00     100.0
- 23 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project is building on the progress of the education reform carried on so far, operationalizing
changes at the school level If in its first stages the reform focused on quality related policies, during the
present stage equity related policies are pursued. The project is also in line with ongoing capacity
building efforts in support of the decentralization process and progressive delegation of decision-making
responsibility at local level
At the school/community level, the project will encourage schools to become active in improving and
developing the quality and range of educational experiences they offer to their students. Principals and
school boards will be stimulated to reduce inequities and to use all resources more effectively. Greater
community involvement in education will be promoted, as well as sensitization of schools to rural
development issues.
At the county level, the project will support decentralization efforts, while not jeopardizing equity in
education. Wide consultation between various stakeholders at local levels to reach consensus will be
promoted. Through managing the School Community Grants Program, county representatives will get
familiarized with education issues, needs and trade-offs.
At the national level, the project will support policy-making on education quality, equity and efficiency
that is based on accurate data and analyses. In addition, the project will support the creation of a
school-based professional development system, complementary to the existing in-service teacher training
system that is based on county training centers. Existing training providers that were trained during the
previous Education Reform project and are capable of delivering modem and high quality teacher
training programs will have a chance to offer services in rural areas.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main beneficiaries of the project are the students from rural areas who will no longer be faced with
big discrepancies in education opportunities, when compared with urban students. They will benefit from
access to improved schools, basic leaming materials and teachers with improved teaching practices. New
school-community linkages will also create an environment conducive to improved learning
opportunities.
In addition, teachers from rural areas will have better career development opportunities. Education policy
and decision makers at national and local levels will enhance their knowledge and skills. Independent
training providers will benefit from professional development programs that will create opportunities for
them to offer services on a competitive market. Local authorities and communities will benefit from
capacity building activities.
Since project beneficianes belong to the rural area in which poverty is much higher compared to urban
areas, the project belongs to the category of poverty- targeted interventions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over an expected period of 6 years, with most activities to be completed
during 5 years.
The MER has the overall responsibility for project implementation. However, given the decentralization
in education, county and local level authorities will be highly involved in the process.
At the national level, MER will establish a project Steering Committee, based on the core task force that
- 24 -



was created during project preparation, and enlarged with other stakeholders' representatives. The PMUs
will assume coordination responsibilities and will be accountable for procurement, financial management
and reporting, as well as for monitoring and evaluation.
At the county level, County Commissions for Education Innovation and Development (CEIDs) will be
established, chaired by the General Inspector and comprising various stakeholders and some of the
"change agents" in the county. CPIUs will be staffed with two project officers, who will report to the
Commission and will coordinate with the central PMU.
At the school/community level, LECs will be established to- (a) prepare a needs analysis and proposal for
school improvement - after training, with technical assistance, and using nationally developed guidelines
for project preparation; (b) liaise with the Mayor's office to ensure the local authorities formal support
for the proposal and a commitment of matching funds; (c) prepare and oversee the implementation of the
project when funds are awarded; and (d) provide for other community inputs and leadership to improve
the likelihood that the process begun with the school improvement project will continue afterwards.
5. Financial management:
Both the PMU and the SR PMU implementing entities are established within MER as departments, with
no legal status of their own and reporting to the MER. The main PMU, that was responsible for the
successful implementation of the Bank's Higher Education Project (closed on 30 September 2002) and
for the exenution of the preparatory grant, will be in charge with all project financial management
aspects.
With respect to component 1.3, the SR PMU, currently in charge with the implementation of the School
Rehabilitation Project (with a closing date of 31 January 2004), will be responsible for the day to day
implementation of activities under the subcomponent and will report monthly to the PMU. The SR PMU
has gained extensive expenence in the school rehabilitation activities under the successful School
Rehabilitation Project.
The PMUs will draw to the extent needed upon the experience and expertise of the MER staff (a number
of technical experts will provide technical assistance in developing the technical specifications). In each
county, there will be CPIUs (courty PIUs) established within the local MER Inspectorates, as local level
"extensions" of the main PMU.
Project funds will flow from: (i) the Bank, either through the two Special Accounts, which will be
replenished on the basis of SOEs, or by direct payment on the basis of direct payment withdrawal
applications; or (ii) the Government, via the Treasury, on the basis of payment requests prepared by the
PMUs.
The Loan Agreement will be signed between the Bank (IBRD) and the Borrower, through the MPF. The
MPF will authorize the MER, through the PMUs to handle the loan amounts. The PMU and the SR PMU
will have their own Special Accounts (SA), the PMU for all project activities except component 1.3 and
the SR PMU for activities within component 1.3 only. The SAs are to be opened at a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. The PMU will receive monthly reports from the SR PMU in view of
consolidating the project financial statements.
Counterpart contributions payments will be made from separate Treasury project sub-accounts of the
main MER budgetary account that will just be used specifically for the Romanian contributions to the
project. These contributions will be received monthly, directly through the MER budget, as part of the
statutory budgetary system.
The PMUs will have full rights to operate both the special and the project accounts. All documentation
- 25 -



pertaining to the project (relating to Loan funds, to the local contributions and other donors as
applicable) will be kept at the PMUs.
In respect of the SCG established under component 2 of the project, the CPIUs will be involved in the
collection and analysis of the grant financing requests, based on a codified matrix, so that no CPIUs
evaluates the financing requests from its home county, to avoid any conflict of interest. Once the schools
are selected and endorsed by the PMU and MER, a financing agreement is signed between the schools
and the PMU. The draft format of the financing agreement and its contents is included in the Financial
and Administration manual. The agreement confirms the responsibility of the grant recipient to maintain
appropriate books and records in respect of grant expenditures and gives the PMU or anyone authorized
by the PMU (e.g. auditor) full access to these books and records for inspection.
After the grants are awarded to the schools, the CPIUs will ensure the day-to-day supervision of the
activities by grant beneficiaries and will monitor and analyze the results of the implementation and
prepare reports that will be submitted to the PMU in view of the use of funds by each school per tranche,
mentioning whether the sub-project milestones have been met, thus justifying the release of the next
tranche of the grant.
The procedures for the SCG adopted by the project are based on the Bank's ECSSD booklet "Good
Practices in Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management for Competitive Grant Schemes in
ECA, February 2002". The PMU adopted a tranche based procedure, so that for the typical grant,
amounting to an average of $ 4,000 (out of which the Bank will finance 75% and the Government 25%),
there will be 3 stages: 30%, 60% and 10%, triggered by the achievement of various implementation
milestones. For very small grants, of less than $1,000, the PMU agreed on a simplified 2 stages model
with 90% and 10% tranches, in line with the Bank guidelines. The SA 90 days advance procedure was
adopted, whereby each tranche is advanced for a maximum period of 90 days, after which the grant
recipient must either produce evidence of a completed stage of the tranche or return the funds.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main scope of the project is to offer better chances to rural students for participation in the
socioeconomic life and for personal fulfillment. Several design options were considered, favoring a
particular implementation scheme or focusing more on certain supply or demand factors: (a) financing
only small grants for school improvement projects; (b) focusing on infrastructure needs; (c) focusing the
project mainly on demand factors. The first option was rejected given the urgent needs in reaching a
basic/minimum functioning standard and the fact that centralized implementation has the speediness
advantage. In addition, information on schools situation is already available at central level following a
rural school census.
The second option was rejected since Romania has already benefited from a significant loan from the
Bank for school rehabilitation. The outcomes of that project will be 1,200 schools rehabilitated. Most
schools are in rural areas and these were the schools identified as putting students lives at danger. In
addition, other financiers (the Council of Europe Development Bank and the European Investment Bank)
are interested in financing these types of activities. Moreover, following decentralization in education,
local authorities are in charge with school repairs and maintenance.
- 26 -



The third option was rejected since social safety nets starts being active in Romania following the
passing of the minimum income guarantee law. The school "Bread and Milk" program is in the second
year of implementation, and is improved based on the experience gained.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
,* . :  .  . - ;   -  , '   .      -    .     --Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project               . -.(PSR) Ratings
- .           - - .   --  -               .             - (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Quality reform in education       Education Reform                  S             S
Quality reform in education       Reform of Higher Education        S             S
and Research
Safe schools                      School Rehabilitation             S            HS
Poverty alleviation and increased  Social Development Fund I        S            HS
social capital
Other development agencies
Qualitv in education              Education 2000 (Soros
supporn)
Qu3lht) in education              Documentation and                .         .
information centers in rural        -
areas (French assistance)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
International best practices
Approaches to improving teaching and learning. Effective teachers are essential to quality education.
While formal qualifications do not ensure that teachers will be effective, well-targeted training is crucial.
Various models have been applied in providing additional teacher training. Brazil is nearing completion
of a program to certify all unqualified teachers by 2003 using a distance education model based on
television, videos, written materials, and local facilitation groups. Portugal has enabled early childhood
workers to pursue university degree courses through evening lessons, practical projects and a thesis.
- 27 -



More than 40 countries have used some form of distance education for teacher professional development,
in general (18 in Africa, 11 in Latin America, 8 in Asia). Models such as the "Open University" or the
university extensions have been also successfully applied. Several countries have established special,
distance education centers. The various models differ in terms of emphasis on subject matter knowledge
vs. pedagogy, and the number of media used. About half the projects combined academic training with
pedagogy, and used combination of correspondence, face-to-face training and mass media. Overall,
expenence demonstrates that the conditions for success included: the provision of high quality
instructional methods and materials, formative evaluation and participation of local groups.
Many countries relied on cascade training to quickly deliver new ideas and methods to teachers; however
this approach is most frequently limited to training courses without practice and often results in dilution
of the original message, as it is passed down. Western countries (France, UK and USA) have combined
practical work with training. This has proved far more effective since it affords opportunities to apply
immediately what has been learned. World Bank projects have also revealed that the impact of training is
increased where in-school support is combined with practice. This finding has been verified in countries
applying school- based programs, mobile teacher training, tutorial activities in cluster resource centers. In
the US, tertiary teacher training institutions cooperate with school districts in "professional development
schools", serving both degree-seeking students and teachers and practicing teachers. In such models, an
important role can be played by NGOs contracted for training services (Latin America, the Escuela
Nueva movement that started in Colombia).
Higher learning outcomes are more likely when basic education conditions are ensured. Better physical
facilities, furniture, basic learning materials, schools supplies have contributed to significant
improvements in student performance, reduced failure, repetition rates and dropouts (Brazil).
School Improvement Planning, linked to grants programs proved to be an efficient mechanism for vanous
stakeholders to share opinions and challenges and to find jointly endorsed solutions to problems (in
Chile, Honduras, Trinidad and Tobago). Many developed countries have well-established systems of
development planning by schools.
Education Reform project and its pilot component on rural education
A comprehensive education reform has been implemented in Romania starting in 1994 supported by the
World Bank Education Reform Project. This was primarily a top down intervention covering the entire
sector. However, with its pilot on the development of rural education, the project addressed capacity
building issues at grass root level. An impact study showed that excellent feedback was received from
participants on the training provided at community level with wide participation of teachers, parents,
community representatives including the local authorities, the church, local private sector etc. Such
training sessions confirmed the importance of increasing community awareness regarding school
problems and facilitated very good interactions of community and school representatives. As a result,
short and long- term plans were produced at local level reflecting proposals from all parties involved.
Based on its interviews and focus group discussions, the conclusions of the impact study support the
importance of: (i) stimulating school-community partnership through attracting parents, local authorities
and the community at large in programs aiming at improving basic education facilities and strengthening
linkages with other schools and communities; (ii) involving local authorities in supporting needy
families; (iii) involving NGOs in community- based programs; (iv) increasing teaching competences in
rural areas; (v) reducing teachers' turnover; (vi) involving both community and students in extra
cumcular activities; and (vii) training parents on changing mentalities, motivation for having educated
children and interpersonal relationships.
- 28 -



Social Development Fund project
The Social Development Fund APL has demonstrated that community dnven development is effective in
Romania. Despite initial reluctance by many authorities, the poorest communities in rural Romania
proved to have the capacity to initiate projects and implement them, as long as they responded to the
perceived needs of the community. Provision of additional support through a facilitation process not only
enabled communities with low initial social capital to achieve success, but also increased levels of social
capital.
Education studies and reviews
OECD Review. An extensive description of the development of education in Romania is given in the
series of the OECD Reviews of National Policies for Education. The report provides an analysis of the
entire education system and identifies key directions for the reinforcement of the reforms in light of the
challenges faced by officials, communities, enterprises, educators, parents and students. Extensive
reference is made to the articulation of a new "philosophy" or values in teaching and learnig promoted
by the education reform in the past several years and the shift from the "informative to the formative",
aiming at developing the learner's thinking skills for lifelong leaming. The report stresses that the
challenge is to increase understanding of this new approach to education and its implications for
classroom practice and teaching learming methodology. One of the main recomrmendations in the OECD
report refers to the need for a concentrated effort of the national and local institutions to debate the new
approach to teaching and learning and its implications for the classroom as well as for the training of
teachers, inspectors and school managers.
Education Policy Note. The Education Policy Note, recently prepared by the Bank identifies important
issues such as the qualification of unqualified teachers and the continuing professional development of
qualified teachers. It also stresses the need to develop the institutional capacity required by the recent
financial decentralization.
Consultants' Reports Financed under the PHRD Grant. During project preparation, a series of reports on
rural education in Romania were produced. These reports, most of which are written by Romanians,
present the social, demographic, and economic context of rural schools and the institutional environment
in small villages. They describe the current indicators of access and quality of rural schools in contrast to
urban schools. The reports also describe the tenuous relationship between schools and the communities
they serve. They make it clear that conditions and needs among rural schools vary according to their
geographic, economic, and social context. Nonetheless, one common feature of many rural schools is the
poor performance of many students, as revealed by grade 4 and grade 8 test scores, in contrast to the
performance of students in urban schools.
The reports summanze government and nongovernmental efforts to reach rural schools with additional
resources and to make the allocation of resources between rural and urban areas more equitable and
efficient. They describe some recent initiatives that the government is exploring to decrease rural-urban
inequities and pilot projects of nongovernmental organizations with extremely poor schools and schools
with minority ethnic populations, particularly Roma.
Two reports discuss the uses of technology (computers, radio, television) to improve instruction and
management of schools; they also discuss related projects in Romania in information technology and the
status of the Information Communication Technology (ICT) infrastructure.
- 29 -



Finally, the reports summarize recormnendations on the range of interventions the project could support
to improve rural schools in which students are not meeting the ministry's standards of academic progress.
Lessons learned especially under successful small scale interventions made by education NGOs (e.g.
Education 2000+) on strengthening community and government support of rural schools at local, county,
and national levels, were taken into consideration, as follows: (i) make schools the focal point of project
resources; focus training at the school-community level; (ii) use school-community teams to manage the
change process, starting with an analysis of needs and a prioritization of needs; (iii) encourage projects
that have school-community interaction and that have community contributions; (iv) involve county
officials in school-community level activities so that they build the capacity to support the change
process; (v) build networks among institutional partners; (vi) provide for visible results in a short period
of time; (vii) take advantage of human resource development activities taking place outside the education
sector in communities where the project is active; (viii) ensure that outcomes will be sustainable.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Romania demonstrates strong commitment to the project's objectives and the planned
approach. The Bank's assistance in efforts to reduce inequities in education was specifically requested by
the Romanian government. The situation of education in rural areas is widely recognized by the general
public, the education and the local and national level authorities. Several institutions such as MER, IES,
Education 2000+, school inspectorates have already been involved in identifying issues and defining
solutions.
The governmental organizations have already initiated actions to reduce disparities: school consolidation
and students busing, scholarships for poor rural students to support enrollment in higher education,
bonuses for rural teachers, the nationwide school "Bread and Milk" program delivered to children in
pre-primary and primary schools, provision of school supplies to needy students, provision of teacher
training and teaching materials in rural schools from eight pilot counties.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
By improving institutional capacity, the Bank's assistance would facilitate a change in behaviors. The
project will use a learning by doing approach through which investments are financed, while behaviors
are changed and institutional capacity is increased. No other donor is available to provide the financial
and technical resources needed to address education issues in rural areas at the needed scale. The Bank
brings in addition the global knowledge acquired through education projects implemented worldwide.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
Project objective and least cost solution justification
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Ainex 4)
NA
- 30 -



Fiscal Impact
NA
3. Technical:
The project design is based on the analysis of the current situation of the education system, and on the
policy priorities reflected in the Government Education Strategy (2001-2004), providing adequate
technical answers to issues of education equity. The project design was also guided by findings and
recommendations of the OECD Education Review and of the Education Policy Note (World Bank, 2002).
During project preparation, lessons learned from the implementation of other education operations in
Romania (Education Reform and School Rehabilitation projects) were taken into account, as well as the
international experience with rural education in European and Latin American countries. Technical
papers were prepared during project preparation using a PHRD grant and systematic consultations with
stakeholders and project beneficiaries were organized (MER decision makers, inspectors, principals,
teachers, parents, local authorities representatives).
The project's technical design is appropriate to Romania's needs and it conforms to various standards. For
example: (i) Teachers Standards will guide the teachers professional development sub-components 1.1
and 1.2; and (ii) utilities rehabilitation under sub- component 1.3 will be undertaken using existing
standards, as well as the recommendations of the Manual on Appropriate Solutions for Upgrading
Schools.
4. Institutional:
After implementing three education projects financed by the Bank, the MER has acquired a good
implementation expenence. However, monitoring, evaluation and policy-making capacity still needs
strengthening. Support to MER and other institutions will be provided through all components, which
include technical assistance and training. The teacher training and inspection systems are currently under
revision and the project will propose an alternative to the existing practice through component 1. County
and local authorities have no experience in education, for which they were given recently financial
responsibility The project will use a learning by doing approach to build the necessary capacity of local
authonties and rural schools, especially through the School- Community Partnership component.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The MER will implement the project through its line units, county level school inspectorates and other
agencies, such as the NAES. The central PMU has been established, with staff that was involved in
previous Bank financed projects, as well as preparatory activities financed through a PHRD grant. The
PMU will have small decentralized implementation units in each county (CPIUs) that will be involved
mainly in the implementation of component 2. The School Rehabilitation (SR) PMU, a unit experienced
in conducting similar activities under the School Rehabilitation project will implement the Basic
Education Conditions sub- component (1.3). The SR PMU will be responsible with: (i) evaluation of
investments for each school on the MER list; (ii) procurement of designs; (iii) organizing consultations
with local stakeholders on the proposed designs; (iv) procurement of works based on standard biding
documents that would include detailed designs; (v) general monitoring of progress of works; (vi)
monitoring and tracking of financial transactions.
4.2 Project management:
Project governance will be ensured by a Steering Committee in which major stakeholders will be
represented. The Steering Committee will: (i) establish procedures and regulations that guide project
implementation; (n) monitor project implementation; and (iii) stimulate public debate in important issues
that arise in the context of the project. Component Boards will be given a set of well- defined
- 31 -



responsibilities for particular policy domains and for monitoring project implementation. The
management capacity of the implementing units/agencies has already been proved during the
implementation of other projects.
4.3 Procurement issues.
The PMU will be responsible for all centralized procurements except for procurements under
sub-component 1.3 and procurement under grants in component 2. The SR PMU will be responsible for
procurements under sub- component 1.3. Procurement under grants in component 2 will be guided by
Community Participation in Procurement (paragraph 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines) and the
Operational Manual.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management arrangements of the project meet the minimum Bank financial management
requirements.
As of the date of this report, the Borrower is in compliance with its audit covenants of existing
Bank-financed projects. The PMU's and SR PMU's previous and current project financial statements and
auditing arrangements are satisfactory and it has been agreed that these will be replicated for Rural
Education Project with the needed customization and specifics for the new Project. The annual audited
project financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year
and also at the closing of the project.
The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Romania has just started with the
initial mission carried out in February 2003. When finalized, the document will detail the issues on the
financial management risks for the country and the implications for the World Bank operations.
The interim CFAA work confirms that a certain improvement is required in the management of public
expenditures, including the budget process and budget execution, as well as cash and debt management.
Thus PMUs have developed policies and procedures that operate in addition to those of the current
public expenditure management framework to minimize project financial management risks. The Bank
conducted yearly a Country Project Portfolio Review of all projects under implementation in Romania
and identified some common financial management issues; the Bank confirmed that all such issues have
been appropriately addressed in the design of the project's financial management arrangements.
The banking sector in Romania has strengthened in the past few years, with the liquidity and credit risks
reduced to moderate levels. Both the PMU and the SR PMU have been operating satisfactorily their
projects SAs in commercial banks acceptable to the Bank that have their financial status and statements
reviewed on an ongoing basis by the Bank. As these arrangements have been satisfactory, they will
remain in place during the Rural Education project implementation.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The investments to be supported under the Basic Education Conditions sub-component, mainly new and
improved water, sanitation, electncity, and heating facilities, in addition to the activities to be supported
under the School- Community Grant Program for improving school- community partnerships are
expected to be positive for the environment, since they will serve for improved public health, living
conditions and environmental conservation awareness.
- 32 -



No major environmental impacts are anticipated under the proposed project given the relatively small
size of most of the investments. Apart from the small civil works to provide schools with new and
improved water, sanitation, electricity and heating facilities, no new structures or works of significant
size are envisaged under the project. The potential negative environmental impacts are expected to be
localized or able to be mitigated during the construction stage.
The project is classified as Fl because neither the individual schools to be rehabilitated nor the small
grants have yet been identified.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) includes procedures and implementation arrangements for
ensuring full consideration of environmental safeguards The EMP is organized in five chapters and two
annexes. In the Introduction, the project components are presented. In Chapter 2 a brief summary of the
rural education conditions is made. In Chapter 3 describes the environment regulatory framework is
described. Chapter 4 refers to the Environment Management Plan for sub-component 1.3 - ensunng
basic education conditions in rural schools. In Chapter 5 the section of the Operational Manual related to
grants selection, assessment and monitoring is presented, related to component 2. Annex I presents in
detail the administrative, political and legal framework on environment and Annex 2 includes the
Guidelines of Environment Management for Civil Works.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA-
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The disclosure of the EMP included several steps: (i) an announcement published in a national
newspaper informing about the EMP's content and its availability at the PMU and county school
inspectorates, (ii) distribution of the EMP to the libraries of the county school inspectorates; (iii) posting
of the EMP on the MER web site.
Since local communities will be involved in consultation processes and project implementation, they will
be continuously informed about the project and any related civil work activity. The Operational Manual
provides for public consultations during the preparation of the downstream investments and describes
procedures to be followed when civil works imply activities with tangible potential environmental
impacts.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The central PMU and especially the SC PMU are responsible for monitoring and evaluating the impact of
the project on the environment.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The inhented tradition in Romania is to favor education elites. Since this is an equity focused project,
special outreach activities will be developed, in order to increase public awareness on who the project
beneficiaries should be and to enlist the support of various stakeholders. Interventions in center commune
schools (that usually get all the attention) will be complemented with interventions in smaller, village
- 33 -



schools.
Special attention will be given to county school inspectorates that are undergoing a role change process,
following the recent financial decentralization. Inspectors may perceive certain interventions that are
aimed at local capacity building as further diminishing their power. Consequently, under the project
inspectors will be invited to accompany the mentors' teams involved in teachers' professional
development and to play a part in monitoring the progress of the project. County inspectorates will be
involved in the evaluation process for School- Community Grants under the second component.
The project has several social development outcomes. By emphasizing education equity, the project is
expected to increase social inclusion and social equity. By using the LECs and the SMCs, the project is
strengthening the local organization capacity and is contributing to increased social capital. School-based
professional development is meant to empower teachers, but also to make them more accountable for
education outcomes.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The whole project is based on a participatory approach. Stakeholders are involved in project management
through the Steering Committee and the county level Commissions for Education Innovation and
Development. The teachers' school-based professional development is conducted in a participatory
manner. Under sub-component 1.3, consultations with parents, teachers and local authorities will be
organized for discussing upgrading solutions and the way they are implemented. Under component 2,
participation of all stakeholders is required in the School-Community Grants program. Under component
3, transparency will be promoted, as well as participation in policy making. A Participation Plan was
developed by the PMU during project preparation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
MER has already held broad consultations with NGOs on project design issues. Special workshops were
organized with NGOs and other civil society organizations working on CDD projects on education.
Information on implementation progress will be regularly disseminated through information, education
and communication activities. Under the project component 3, a special effort will be made to increase
the participation of various organizations in education research and to facilitate their access to education
data through the online access to statistical databases.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Institutional arrangements under the project are meant to create or strengthen the capacity of the
education system to function in a decentralized setting. Communities will be involved in consultation
processes and project implementation through the LECs and the school SMCs. At the county level, the
Commnission for Education Development and Innovation (CEIDs) will help county authorities to better
understand education delivery issues that get involved beyond financing.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The monitoring and evaluation system will include both quantitative and qualitative mechanisms.
Beneficiary assessments will be used for evaluation of the level of satisfaction of beneficiaries with
project outcomes. Changes in attitude of major stakeholders will be monitored through school and
classroom observations. The institutional performance in resource allocation will be monitored in several
ways: (i) the prioritized list of schools that need interventions to ensure basic teaching conditions will be
checked by an independent evaluator, in order to minimize exclusion and inclusion errors; (ii) the
allocation of funds to counties for the School-Community Grants program will be based on a County
- 34 -



Index; (iii) high nsk schools will be favored in getting grants.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the project?
. -.Policy      -    .       -    L  -    -     Triggered..---
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes (9 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  ( Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  (_) Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     (9 Yes S No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 (9 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 (U Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         (9 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             U Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  U Yes S No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       () Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental Assessment. The Environmental Management Plan and the Operational Manual include
procedures and implementation arrangements for ensuring full consideration of environmental
safeguards. The procedures developed in the OM are mandated for project implementation through
appropriate clauses in the legal document.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The long- term sustainability of the project is addressed in a special component, i.e., component 3 that
aims at increasing the equity related policy- making capacity of the authorities involved in education. At
local level, sustainability is ensured through the empowerment of schools and communities to get
involved in decisions concerning their students.
Sustainability of the School- Based Professional Development program (sub- component 1.1) will be
ensured by including the principles of the program in the revised National Teacher Training Strategy and
by encouraging each cluster of schools to continue to meet to share experience and engage in joint
planning of ways to tackle shared problems. Under sub- component 1.2: (i) new ODL programs will
continue to be offered by universities after project closure; and (ii) teachers participating in career
development programs will be asked to sign contracts in order to make sure that they will continue to
teach in their rural school for at least four more years after completion of the ODL courses. The
sustainability of sub-component 1.3 relies upon special attention being given to the maintenance of
utilities (Maintenance Handbook to be distnbuted to all beneficianes) and involvement of local
authorities in all stages of project implementation. The sustainability of the provision of learning
matenals under sub-component 1.4 is ensured through: (i) the quality of the materials selected, and (ii)
the increased efficiency of the warehouses.
Sustainability of the School-Community Grant Program beyond the project investment phase is ensured
by asking County Councils to provide evidence of their allocation of an increasing agreed percentage of
non-project related funds to contribute to the long term financial sustainability of the program starting
with its second year of implementation.
- 35 -



Since the CPIU and CEID activities are taking place at the County Council level, it is expected that the
County Council is the mainstream location that may host the day-to-day management and more strategic
thinking of this program once the project closes. Through the SCG program capacity in this host unit is
built through the involvement of CPIUs in the day-to-day management of the SCG activities and the
responsibility assigned to CEIDs for the approval of sub-project financing. This exercise is expected to
increase the involvement at local level in resolving education issues and subsequently allocating
additional resources from local budgets.
Another important sustainabihty aspect is the requirement of matching funds (in money and/or in kind) to
be allocated by the recipient of approved proposals in an agreed proportion specified in the rules of the
SCG appearing in the OM.
At the same time LECs and schools that went through the exercise of developing school improvement
plans, preparing projects and applying for funding will be better prepared to access funds allocated to
education innovation and development.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1).
.,R,-' -" Risk --              Risk Rating   .-      - Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Demand for education doesn't increase in   S        The project would promote the participation of
rural areas.                                        parents and the community in the school life
leading to a better understanding by families of
the role of education in improving prospects for
a better livelihood.
Schools and local authorities in poor      H        Improved partnerships between schools and
rural areas do not have access to funds to          communities would lead to identification of
improve education.                                  cost-effective measures to improve education.
Matching grants will ease financial constraints
and improve ownership and sustainability.
Funds are not available for data           S        The project would promote a culture of data
collection, analyses, education policies            utilization for policy formulation both at
development and results dissemination.              national and local levels that would lead to an
increased bargaining power of education
authorities for resource mobilization.
From Components to Outputs
The majority of unqualified rural          M        MER will establish clear deadlines for
teachers are not interested in                      qualification, after which unqualified teachers
qualification.                                      would not longer be accepted in the system.
The project will finance outreach activities.
The in-service teacher training system     S        Main actors of the existing in-service teacher
resists changes                                     training system will be included in the project.
There is not sufficient local expertise in  M       The project will use the cadre of experts
rural education and community                       created by previous projects and will finance
development.                                        TA and training activities, in order to increase
local expertise.
There is political interference in         S        Transparent targeting mechanisms and
sub-projects selection process.                     operational procedures will be developed.
Promotion and facilitation activities will be
- 36 -



implemented in order to involve rural schools
in project implementation
Overall Risk Rating                        S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
N/A
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement Conditions
* The Front End Fee of I percent of the loan paid by the Borrower from its own resources to the Bank.
* Disbursements under sub-component 1.3 would be conditioned by full satisfaction of the Bank with
the priontized list of schools to be upgraded.
Audits
The project financial statements, SOEs and SAs will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited statements and audit report
will be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Financial performance
First FMR furnished to the Bank no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar
quarter after the Effectiveness date; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter.
Proiect Management
* The Borrower, through MER, shall take all necessary measures to implement the Project in
accordance with the EMP.
* The PMUs will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank.
* Steering Committee responsible for overseeing the Project implementation at national level,
established by the Borrower through MER by September 1, 2003 with a composition and TORs
acceptable to the Bank.
* County Commissions for Education Innovation and Development (CEIDs) responsible for the
selection of sub-projects for financing from the proceeds of the loan, sub-projects evaluation and
approval (based on appraisal by CPIUs), established by the Borrower through MER by September
15, 2003.
* PMU maintained by the Borrower through MER during the execution of the project, with staffing
and resources adequate to enable it to effectively implement the project (except for component 1.3 -
Basic Education Conditions in Schools), responsible for financial management, procurement,
disbursement, and preparation of progress reports and annual reports.
* School Rehabilitation PMU (SR PMU) assigned by the Borrower to carry out the activities under
- 37 -



component 1.3 - Basic Education Conditions in Schools of the project, under general oversight and
supervision of the PMU.
O Borrower, through MER, to ensure that all sub-projects under the School Community Grants (SCG)
Program will be selected, approved, carried out and evaluated in accordance with the criteria and
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and will provide financing on the basis of a Grant
Agreement (agreed upon by the Bank) concluded between the PMU and each recipient.
o Prior Bank approval will be obtained for any amendments to the Operational Manual, including the
standard Grant Agreement.
o Pnor Bank approval will be obtained on a sample of accepted and rejected grant proposals during the
first two rounds of competitions organized by all CEIDs under the SCG program.
O Prior Bank approval will be obtained on the initial three contracts under the SCG program for each
type of Grants, regardless of value. The documents submitted for Bank pnor review will include,
inter alia, documents describing the scope and terms of the competition for Grants, evaluation report,
and draft Grant Agreement.
Monitoring. review, and reporting
o Adequate policies and procedures maintained by the Borrower to enable it to monitor and evaluate on
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of its objectives.
o Mid-Term Report prepared under TORs acceptable to the Bank on or about June 15, 2006 to
integrate results of the monitoring and evaluation activities and reflect the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the project by this date and set out measures recommended to ensure efficient
carrying out of the project and the achievement of objectives during the remaining period.
O Review with the Bank the Mid-Term Report by September 15, 2006 and take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the project and the achievement of the objectives based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the Report and the Bank's views.
o Semi-annual reports on the progress of project implementation submitted by the Borrower through
the PMU by February 28 and August 28 of each year including a draft annual project plan for the
following year.
o Annual assessment to monitor the impact of the project carried out by the Borrower through the
PMU.
o Management Information System (MIS) specifically designed to monitor and evaluate the progress in
carrying out the School-Community Grants Program, developed by the PMU no later than January 3,
2004.
H. Readiness for Implementation
L 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
21 1. b) Not applicable.
71 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 38 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Ana Maria Sandi                  Maureen McLaughlin               Andrew N. Vorkink
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                   Country Director
- 39 -






Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ROMANIA: Rural Education Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy-
iHierarchy of Objectives            Indicators -.                           .        Critical.Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Revitalization of Rural Areas  Higher living standards in  Country diagnostic reports  There is continuity and
and Promotion of Community rural areas                                            coherence in Romania's
Development                                                                      reform policies.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Have rural schools students  Increasing rural students'  NAES National reports    The other rural development
benefit from improved access  achievement scores in   MER reports                 strategies are pursued (rural
to quality education, as   compulsory education as    Comparative studies done at  finance, rural infrastructure
evidenced by higher        evidenced by assessments and national and regional levels  etc.).
achievement scores and     examinations, by end of    Bi-annual project progress
completion and transition  school year 2008-2009      reports
rates                      Reducing the gap between   Mid-Tenn evaluation
.Irn'lementation Completion
urban and rural achievement  Report
scores in compulsory
education by end of school
year 2008-2009.
Increasing the compulsory
education completion rate in
rural areas by end of school
year 2008-2009.
Reducing the gap between the
urban and rural completion
rates in compulsory education
by end of school year
2008-2009.
Increasing the transition rates
to upper secondary and
tertiary education for rural
students by school year
2008-2009.
Reducing the gap between the
urban and rural transition rates
to upper secondary and
tertiary education by end of
school year 2008-2009
- 40 -



Performance      - Data-Collection Strtegy     C
Hierachy   f-Objectives           Ondicators                                             As
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Students in rural areas have  I 1. About 70% rural teachers MER reports      Demand for education
access to quality education  use interactive teaching-  School Inspectorates    gradually increases in rural
learning methods and are able  evaluations           areas.
to fully comply with the   Beneficiary assessment
reformed curricula;        Research reports (including
1.2. About 4,000 teaching  classroom surveys)
staff from rural areas have  National Assessment
upgraded their qualification;
1.3. About 1,500 rural schools
have upgraded facilities;
1.4. About 80% rural students
use basic learning matenals.
2. Empowered schools and   2.1. About 2,500 communes                            Schools and local authortles
communities, active in     have active LECs.                                    in poor rural areas have access
improving education in rural  2.2. About 2,500 schools have                     to funds.
areas                     implemented sub-projects in
partnership with communities.
2.3. High grant beneficiaries'
satisfaction.
3. Capacity to monitor and  3. 1. A realistic set of                            Funds are available for
address equity issues in  indicators is developed and an                        education data collection,
education is enhanced.     effective equity monitoring                          analyses and policies
system is in place.                                   development and results
3.2. Improved standardized                            dissemination.
statistical reports are
developed for at least 2 years
on compulsory education at
national and county levels.
3.3. Reports on at least 2
years student assessment
results analyzing causal factors
and location/county disparities
are prepared.
4. Effective project       4.1. Education stakeholders
implementation             are informed and trained.
4.2. Information, education
comnmunication activities are
well targeted and financed.
4.3. Project activities are
timely implemented.
4 4. Project components are
fully implemented, with
expected outcomes.
- 41 -



- | -.  Key-Performance      - Data'Collection- Strategy -               ---  , :1
IHierarchy of Objectives j         'Indicators                         :   ,'"   '' -  '    ,- C ntica l Assumptionis
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                          Outputs)
I Improve Teaching and     1. US$67 91 million       Progress reports          The majonty of rural teachers
Learnng in Rural Schools.  (I I US$12.08 million,    Audit reports             are interested in qualification.
1.2. US$3.41 million,     Supervision reports       The existing in-service teacher
1. I School-Based Teachers  1 3 US$34.42 million,                              training system doesn't resist
Professional Development.  1 4 US$18.01 million)                               changes.
1 2 Career Development
Opportunities for Teachers
1.3. Basic Education
Conditions in Schools.
1 4. Teaching- Learning
Materials.
2 Improve School-          2. US$11.93 million                                 There is sufficient local
Community Partnerships.                                                        expertise in rural education
and community development.
There is no political
interference in the sub-projects
selection process.
3. Strengthen Monitonng,   3. US$3.34 million
Evaluation and Policy Making
Capacity.
4. Strengthen Project      4. US$6.65 million
Management Capacity
- 42 -



I



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ROMANIA: Rural Education Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$67.91 million
Improve Teaching and Learning in Rural Schools
The objective of this component is to develop the professional competences of rural teachers and to
improve the basic education conditions in schools. The component will have four sub- components 1I.1
School-Based Teachers Professional Development; 1.2 Career Development Opportunities for Teachers;
1.3. Basic Education Conditions in Schools; and 1.4 Teaching- Learning Materials.
Sub- Component 1.1: School- Based Teachers Professional Development (US$12.08 million)
Objective
The objective of this sub-component is to support a conceptual and practical change in teaching that is
critical to the improvement of student learning.
Principles
Outreach. If most rural teachers are unable to come to the training, the training must come to them.
Relevance to the local situation. The state of readiness to adopt new approaches varies from school to
school, as do the resources that can be brought to bear in effecting development. Teachers themselves
should evaluate the nature of local training needs and their pnoritization. Training would therefore be
focused on matters that the teachers perceived to be important in the real situation that they face.
Relevance to national needs. The first aim of the program would be to improve the quality of leaming of
rural students and therefore it will focus on key aspects of the education reform that encourages student
centered approaches and their implications for the development of new teaching methods and skills.
Continuity of development. Acquisition of new skills and attitudes does not happen overnight. Sustained
work to translate theory into practice is required. This cannot be achieved only by providing equipment
and documentation. What is needed is illustration of good practice and reflection by the teachers on how
they should change their practices. A preacher is not needed; rather a "mentor" who can provide
appropriate stimuli and guiide the process of reflection. Training would have input sessions of various
kinds: oral, video and demonstration, but also guided discussion in workshop mode. The emphasis would
be on helping teachers to find the best way, in the circumstances of their school, to improve the quality of
the teaching and learning that go on.
A dynamic within the school. A prerequisite for progress is active understanding and support from school
principals, so an essential stage is an awareness workshop for principals both about what is sought in the
project and the role of the principal in bringing it about. Aspects of the management of change will be
included, to reinforce the idea that change does not come by order or by wish, but by patient wrestling
with a problem. The program involves considerable effort on the part of the teachers and it will be
essential that there is leadership from within the school.
-43 -



Sustained support. Mentors would visit the school/cluster on a regular, monthly basis to support and
monitor progress. The mentors would be trained to work in the mode of facilitation of the teachers' work,
rather than in instruction about how that work is to be done. Mentors will be able to call upon trainers
qualified to provide support in the topics that the teachers choose to develop.
A progressive development. The available supply of mentors would not permit the project to reach all
rural teachers from the outset. In the first stage, a limited number of schools/clusters will be included,
based on expressions of interest and capacity evaluations made by county inspectorates and the project
Steering Committee. The program will be continuously improved in the light of experience and the
number of schools will increase year by year to cover all rural schools during the life of the project.
Main features
The main aspects of the school-based professional development program will be:
1. Plannin at national level. A contractor will be selected that would be responsible for designing the
training and specifying the materials to be used, adapting existing training courses as necessary to meet
the needs of the rural school (such as paucity of resources). The training program, based on a local
participatory approach will be accredited by the National Center for Teacher Training. Training will be
conducted during the methodological days granted to schools by MER. The guiding principles and speed
of expansion of the school- based professional development in rural schools will be reviewed and agreed
after the initial phase is completed.
2. Modular training. Modules that would be needed would be focused on improving the quality of the
mainstream teaching practice of the school. Such modules might include:
Interactive, student-centered teaching. To use methods of teaching that engage students
actively in the lesson and help them to take the lead in thinking through problems, solutions,
procedures, etc.; to manage small group work, cooperative learning, etc.; and to respond to
the different levels of student work in a way that ensures that all students make the best
possible progress.
Continuous assessment in the classroom. To use a range of tools for frequently judging how
well every student has met the lesson (curriculum) objective; to identify students who need
additional learnig support, to adjust the lesson's materials and methods when many students
are not meeting the lesson's objectives.
Adapting the curriculum to the rural environment. To develop lessons that help students
relate the information and knowledge prescribed in the national curriculum to the
environment that they know; to develop projects and courses that help students learn about
and appreciate their rural environment.
Specific modules may be devoted to problems that are frequently found in rural schools:
Multi- grade teaching. The management of classes that include two or more grade levels,
using small groups of students at the same level of mastery; peer tutoring, etc.
Learning support. To provide slow learners with suitable alternative materials and learning
approaches to help them to catch up to grade level.
Romanian as a second language. To provide students who do not speak Romanian at home
with suitable alternative materials and learning approaches that enable them to understand,
speak, read and write sufficiently to master the school curriculum.
-44 -



Another module may be Learning about Students'Backgrounds. This would use a range of tools to learn
about the individual learming styles of students in the class, their home environment, their health, and
other social, contextual factors that influence their capacity to learn in the classroom.
To the extent that rural schools have access to computers, a module on Using Computers to Learn and
Teach will be included. This would help teachers to become familiar with the utility of computers as aids
to teaching and learning and to practice using computer-based instruction in the classroom or as remedial
tools and to become familiar with the use of the Internet as an instructional tool.
3. Identification and training of mentors. Following the Education Reform project, there are qualified
trainers of trainers in each county. A significant number of trainers with useful experience were also
qualified through projects such as those developed by NGOs (Education 2000+, British Council). The
National Center for Teacher Training has undertaken a survey of existing trainers in the formal education
system and in NGOs and the pnvate sector. Trainers will be invited to a forum on the subject of the
school-based professional development of rural teachers. National TA will make inputs. Opportunities
for participants to brainstorm would be included, leading to the identification of a suitable number of
thoughtful, dynamic mentors. A development team of such people will be formed to define the content of
the training and the methods and materials to be used. The contractor mentioned above will further train
mentors and prepare a number of training modules in cooperation with appropriate authorities.
4. Dissemination. The first target audience will be the principals of rural schools. Large awareness
building seminars in selected counties will be organized. During these seminars, suitable publicity and
explanatory matenals (modest length, good graphic) will be distnbuted. At the seminar there would be
oral and other inputs of various kinds, covering such topics as: why change was needed, the meaning of
change in quality, the management of change; and the school-based professional development mechanism
proposed to assist schools to improve quality. These inputs would be from national or counties officials
who are already fully briefed about and supportive of the suggested approach, and the project's trainers.
There would then be workshop sessions in groups of about 12 - 15 responding to questions or topics
planned in advance, followed by brief feedback from the working groups. Finally there would be a
request that principals would consult their teachers and school administration council about involvement
in the project. Schools will express interest in participation by writing to the PMU a letter of intent,
assuring to make time and effort available to the project, either in the first or in subsequent phases.
5. Selection of schools to be included in the first phase of the program. On the basis of the nature of the
letters of intent, as well as objective criteria such as the availability of mentors, access issues (in
particular how mentors and teachers are to be enabled to get to the cluster focus school and back again),
and in addition subjective evaluation of the suitability of particular schools or clusters for participation, a
manageable number of schools would be selected from those expressing interest in being part of the first
phase of the program. Selection will be made by the project Steering Committee, in consultation with the
county School Inspectorates.
6. Planning at school level. In each selected school (which would normally be a local cluster with a
coordinating school) a seminar would be held for all the teachers. The purpose would be to gain the
commitment of the staff to making the effort to develop their current work, to suggest to them possible
modules of training, and to prepare the ground for them to identify what aspects of their work were most
in need of development. Mentors using materials devised for the purpose would guide the process of
self-evaluation. The objective would be to identify the perceived needs or weaknesses of the school,
measured against the demands of the new curricula. In the first instance it would be inevitable that only a
limited range of training modules would be available, and the selection within that range would need to
be negotiated with the school.
- 45 -



The provision of the school-based professional development program will thus depend on the need in the
school cluster concerned. Such training would:
o   be complementary to provision through the Teachers House.
Teachers House meets a range of needs identified as common to a significant number of
teachers or  schools, but necessarily the Teachers House courses only involve directly a
minority of teachers. School-based training identifies and addresses needs peculiar to the
school or cluster, and can involve all teachers in the school! cluster.
o   seek to energize the school/ cluster to become active in
self-evaluation
solving problems actively, rather than waiting for solutions to be provided
making best use of any resources that are available in the school / locality.
O   focus on perceived needs in the school/ cluster.
o   seek to develop a sense of teamwork among the staff so that they became a professional
community of learners.
o provide a focus for debriefing teachers who attend a course at a central location and for
considering how to make use of what they have learned.
o provide a focus for any local training, which may be offered by mobile units or other national or
regional agencies.
o   enable the schools in a cluster to cooperate in the slow and difficult process of moving from a
position of understanding what is required, to the position of having the pedagogical skills to put
the ideas into practice.
O   emphasize the school as part of the local community, making full use of such local resources as
exist and cooperating with the community to maximize the learning of students.
7. Incentives for teachers' participation. The main incentive for teachers' participation will be represented
by the quality of the program. In addition, teachers will be interested in getting credits for the training.
The mentors, the principal and inspectors will assess teachers participating in the program. Following
positive results in assessments, teachers will receive transferable professional credits that will account for
the in-service training that all teachers are supposed to undertake periodically (every 5 years), according
to the law.
8. Management of mentors. MER has defined the conditions of service of mentors, including the size and
nature of the incentives to be offered to encourage enough of them to undertake the demanding work of
school-based professional development in rural areas and arrangements agreed to secure good
management and accountability. Mentors will be selected from the best teachers trainers and appropriate
incentives will be provided to motivate them to take over a difficult and demanding job. Incentives for
mentors will include: (i) direct monetary benefits (salary, allowances, fringe benefits); and indirect
monetary benefits (professional support in the way of training, mentor guides, books, instructional
supervision; good office accommodation with facilities for reporting and communication; and personal
support such as holding of their school positions while mentors). Non- monetary benefits might include
professional status in the community; recognition and approval by significant people associated with the
mentor etc. MER will approve the secondment of mentors from their existing posts, with secunty of
tenure being assured.
Mentors will participate in the process of developing and improving the training. To facilitate this
process, mentors will meet to share and reflect upon experience gained in the schools. As part of the
project information, communication, education activities, main colleges and universities will host
mentors' meetings during which mentors will exchange experience among themselves, but also with
- 46 -



professors from the host institutions. In this way, the project will have an impact on the way pre- service
education is delivered, making it more linked to the local needs.
After mentors have worked with a cluster for a complete school session, the inspectorate will encourage
continuing activity by the teachers in the cluster and mentors will visit the cluster, but on a much less
frequent basis, to help sustain their work.
9. Monitoring and evaluation. Monitonng of the process by the contracted agency will take place from a
fairly early stage, after the initial period of initiating the task. The monitoring would be to ensure that
mentors had engaged effectively with the staff of the school, that the tasks being undertaken by the staff
were appropnate and realistic, and that the contents of the training modules were being covered in a way
that was suitable to the circumstances of the school. Monitoring of the training process by the regional
inspectorates will be encouraged and performance indicators will be agreed with them.
An independent evaluator will be contracted by the PMU after the first year of project implementation to
assess the effectiveness of the new approach to professional development, both as regards the growth in
competence of the teachers and the effect on the rural schools concerned; the economics of the provision;
and the implications for in-service training more widely. The evaluation will form part of the evidence
upon which modification and development of the approach to training would be based.
10. Reporting. The views of the school on the program will be recoi ded toward the end of the school
session. A proforma to guide their feedback will be prepared by the contractor. At the end of each year,
the PMU will summarize feedback from schools and mentors in a report that would provide further
evidence upon which to develop the professional development aspects of the project.
11. Mobile and Fixed Resource Centers
The project will set up a network of Mobile Resource Centers (MRCs) to be staffed by the mentor teams,
who take to rural schools the instructional modules developed by the project and other useful materials.
The MRCs will visit participating schools in order to share and demonstrate the instructional modules
and other methods and materials and to help teachers apply what they learn from the modules to their
teaching. The "unqualified" teachers who teach in participating schools and are enrolled in ODL courses
(Component 1.2) will also benefit from the equipment and materials provided by the MRCs.
The MRCs will be minivans equipped with video projectors, laptops, flip charts and teaching materials.
They will also function as mobile lending libraries, making available documents, brochures and other
print materials produced by MER, its agencies and school inspectorates.
2 mentors will staff each MRC. Whenever possible, an inspector and or Teachers House staff person will
accompany the MRC team and, after acquiring the needed expertise, will function as a full team member,
thus extending the team's capacity and increasing the likelihood that its expertise remains in the county
beyond the life of the project.
The project will provide 41 MRCs. In pnnciple, each county will host one MRC, providing office space
for the two team members and secure parking for the car. In some cases, depending on relative size and
the needs of the rural schools in the counties, two or more counties may share one MRC, and in other
cases the county may use more than one MRC. The MRC will travel out each day to serve one or two
cluster of schools. It will park at one of the schools in the clusters, and teachers from other schools will
travel to that school (it can go to the same or a different school on each visit, depending on needs and
convenience).
Fixed Resource Centers will be developed in the coordinating schools in which students from
- 47 -



consolidated schools are learning. Since in this case there are no other schools in the cluster, the center
will benefit from basic equipment and materials that would support its teachers.
Sub-Component 1.2. Career Development Opportunities for Teachers (US$3.41 million)
Objective
The objective of the sub-component is to assist rural teachers to obtain formal qualifications as teachers
for compulsory education through an ODL program. It is accepted intemationally that the students of
teachers who are better qualified tend to achieve higher on student assessment tests. A logical
explanation for this finding is that effective teaching requires good knowledge of content and of
theoretical foundations for teachers to be able to creatively ground the day-to-day use of their teaching
competences in the reality they find in their classrooms. Romanian studies have identified the
under-qualification of rural teachers as contributing to the difference in results between rural and urban
students. The recent public concems in Romania about unqualified teachers have been dealt with by
MER for the short-term during the 2002-2003 school year by hiring mainly retired teachers and by asking
qualified teachers to accept additional teaching norms. However, this solution does not resolve the issue
of qualifymg rural teachers, especially because the extra teaching done by many teachers is not in the
subject for which they were trained. Very few rural teachers have the means to return to full-time study
for a qualifying diploma, and time, distance, and expense make it difficult to take advantage of the
universities' existing distance leaming and open education programs that would qualify them. A
challenge in the improvement of rural education in Romania is to improve these teachers' access to
programs that will give them better professional qualifications that will produce higher learning
outcomes for rural students.
Target Population
The program to improve teacher's skills through training for qualifications will serve primary and
secondary school teachers from the following categories:
o subject teachers, graduates from university, who are also teaching subjects outside their subject area;
o graduates of higher education from non- teaching streams, who have some subject knowledge, but
did not have pedagogical training (e.g. engineers, agricultural and administration specialists); and
o graduates of upper secondary education who do not have training for teaching in primary schools
(grades I-IV).
The criteria for enrolling in the program will be:
o having taught for a minimum of two out of the last three years in a rural school;
o   having been offered a contract with a rural school that gives him/her a position as a teacher in the
school, as long as the teacher successfully completes the program.
In return, the applicant will commit to complete the program and to teach in schools in the commune for
at least 4 years after receiving the diploma they study for.
Applicants who have a higher education diploma with teaching qualifications may apply for a program of
modules that will qualify for a specialization other than the one he/she is already qualified in (a teacher
with a primary education diploma may add a subject; non- school- subject graduates may qualify in a
school subject; qualified teachers in one subject may add another subject). If the applicant is a graduate
of a general lycee he or she may apply for a program leading to a diploma that will qualify them to teach
-48 -



in the primary grades. The ODL program design will respond to the different categories of needs among
groups in the target audience, leading to: a) a diploma to teach primary grades (for general lycee
graduates), or b) a diploma that qualifies a higher education graduate to teach one or more subjects
beyond what he/she was originally trained in.
Providers
If the professional development of rural "unqualified" teachers is to be improved, many institutions and
groups must cooperate. First, MER has the responsibility for setting qualification standards with the
National Board for Teacher Training and the National Council for Evaluation and Accreditation of
Higher Education. Second, if rural teachers in the most isolated and needy communes are to be served,
full-time study is not possible; and distance and cost make regular attendance at classes impossible.
Alternative ODL mechanisms are a logical choice in response to these constraints. In this area, the
umversities' departments for ODL have a comparative advantage in being able to undertake ODL courses
to qualify teachers. They have more flexibility in course designs than other university departments; they
can reach practicing rural teachers, even in the most isolated areas; and they have already begun to offer
ODL diploma programs for practicing teachers. Finally, many institutions besides public universities and
the MER, such as: private education institutions, NGOs, and consulting organizations have experience in
training practicing teachers, particularly in helping teachers apply what they learn to their teaching.
Qualified institutions that have experience and skills to offer will be drawn upon in the design of the
ODL programs that want to improve the qualifications and performance of rural teachers. ODL prov!sion
has to be in line with the provision of the special government decision (HG 1214/2000). Practicing
teachers, current school heads, and school inspectors all have experience with real-world teaching issues
that make them essential to the design and implementation of new courses that will qualify their peers in
ways that will improve classroom performance. These groups will be consulted in the design of the
program.
Given the variety of actors and their different capabilities for contributing to qualifying teachers, a team
approach to program design and implementation will be used. Given the newness and current level of
ODL in Romania and the lack of expenence with the kind of distance teacher training program outlined
below, international technical assistance that bnngs knowledge and lessons from similar efforts in other
countries will be available.
Professors from universities/institutions already engaged in ODL programs will undertake the program
design. The professors will be selected as individual consultant and will develop a national curnculum
framework for training practicing teachers, as well as materials and software. Training will include along
with more traditional syllabi, modules specific to teaching in rural areas, such as teaching multi- grade
classrooms, community-based approaches in teaching reading and writing etc. Universities with ongoing
ODL programs will get accreditation for providing training to teachers, according to the national
curriculum framework and using the already developed materials and software.
The MER will administer the tuition fees program. Links with sub-component 1.1 will be established by
involving, as much as possible, mentors in guidance and monitoring activities.
Program Design: Principles, Delivery System, and Materials
Rural teachers find it difficult to take advantage of existing programs that will improve their
qualifications and career possibilities because of their isolation, the cost of such programs, and, for some,
the lack of courses that respond to their training needs. At the same time, during the nineties, Romanian
universities created much of the infrastructure, in the ODL Departments, upon which a program that
- 49 -



overcomes these obstacles could be built. This section outlines the structure, delivery system, and
materials that will guide the design of the program built on the existing ODL infrastructure.
Pnnciples of Program Design. First, all study programs must lead to a diploma, that will allow teachers
who participate to progress towards becoming tenured teachers. Second, if a participant's completion of a
program of study is to have acceptability nationally, the curriculum framework and delivery system's
structure should be the same throughout the country. Thus, an integrated, collaborative process of
program and course development is required. The program's design will be based on knowledge, abilities
and competences that the MER's teaching standards provide. The standards will be used to formulate the
curriculum framework of the proposed program, including explicit theoretical and practical learning
objectives. Each institution wishing to implement the framework with support from the program will
have to prepare detailed course modules that fit the framework, and they will have to seek accreditation
for each collection of modules/courses through the normal procedures for the approval of the new
programs in higher education.
It will also be necessary to ensure that course materials are provided to participants in a readily
accessible form. Therefore, since most teachers will be far from urban settings, all materials should be
available as print versions, but they may be based on information technology planning and formatting and
be delivered by the INTERNET or on diskettes or CDs for participants who have access to and know
how to use a computer. At any rate, the participants should be able to study materials, discuss them, and
complete most assignments at the school level, saving travel time and costs and encouraging direct
application of what's leamed to their teaching.
The delivery system and materials for the program to develop professional qualifications of rural teachers
will reflect these principles.
The Delivery System. Starting from the point of contact with teachers who are students, the delivery
system will have the following elements:
o   print, visual, and/or INTERNET materials in the hands of all participants;
o   regular face-to-face discussion of the materials among teachers near each other in regular
small group meetings facilitated by local teacher mentors;
o   less frequent (2-3 times per semester) larger group meetings of participants at a central place
with a higher education professor for additional information and for questions to be
answered;
o   on-demand availability by phone and/or 1NTERNET of teacher mentors and professors for
participants and of professors for the teacher mentors under their supervision;
o   a local team of ODL practitioners and teacher educators based in a higher education
institution to oversee program delivery, record student results, and provide logistical and
administrative support;
o   professors from universities/institutions to be competitively selected to coordinate course
preparations;
o   program delivery, monitonng, and student record-keeping to be done by each university;
o   a Steering Committee to provide direction and oversight to the full program.
Materials. Distance learning materials will be provided in the form of printed documents, videos,
computer diskettes, CDs and/or INTERNET sites. A mix of such materials will be needed to reach rural
teachers throughout the country. All materials will need to be in print for most teachers to use them
effectively. They will need to be deliverable by post and usable without a computer.
- 50 -



The project Operational Manual (OM) is describing the program, guiding everyone who wants to
participate. The OM includes the following
*   goals and objectives of the overall program;
*   identification of who may participate and what they may achieve as a result of participation;
*   application and selection procedures;
*   a statement of the participants' incentives (scholarships, diploma, secunty as a teacher, etc.)
and obligations (attendance, successful progress and completion, conmmitment to teacher,
etc ).
In addition, after university professors will finish their work, the PMU will prepare a booklet to be
broadly disseminated, describing:
*   the overall program design (the master curriculum and individual requirements for each type
of qualifying diploma to be offered);
*   module designs and the delivery system;
*   evaluation mechanisms for each kind of qualification offered.
In addition, universities will prepare a full range of program materials based on the materials already
designed. These materials may be organized into self-sufficient modules (or courses) that can serve as
building blocks for satisfying qualifying requirements for different qualifications For example, modules
on general classroom pedagogy, the teaching of mathematics, and the content of the mathematics
curriculum through secondary schools will qualify mathematics teachers. A teacher with strong
knowledge of mathematics through engineering study, but no teacher training, might apply to be
exempted from the mathematics content module while a graduate of a pedagogic lycee might ask to skip
the general classroom pedagogy module. Collectively, the full array of modules would provide full
coverage of the courses needed to qualify teachers according to the qualification categories that are
decided upon.
Each module's design will include the following:
*   explicit knowledge, abilities, and competences that a participant must exhibit for successful
completion of the module;
*   a pretest of the participant's position vis a vis these objectives (could be used to award
exemption);
*   the content of the module;
*   activities and assignments, written and practical as well as required and suggested for
participants to complete;
*   cases and simulations (as appropriate);
*   additional readings, either attached to the basic materials or as referrals in a bibliography;
*   auto-evaluation tests for participants (with feedback loops to the textual materials);
*   a summative evaluation mechanism for the participant to demonstrate completion of the
module (may include tests, a portfolio, a demonstration, etc., and may be used as the pretest
for exemption as well).
Administration and Financing. The MER will administer the tuition fees program. Universities will be
responsible for recording and tracking the participants' progress and performance in the program.
Unsatisfactory performance by a participant will result in the loss of subsidies and eventual expulsion
from the program.
- 51 -



The ODL units in universities will deliver courses at an average cost of US$300 per year. The MER will
provide tuition fees to teachers and will cover the travel costs and accommodation for participation in
examunations. The teachers would have to contribute by covering the costs of attending intermediary
meetings. The tuition fees will be provided each semester to registered participants upon confirmation of
successful completion of the last semester. The participant would be responsible for paying the fee
directly to the higher education institution. Nonpayment would need to be reported regularly to the unit
that distnbutes the tuition fees in order to monitor the participants' use of the funds. The tuition fees will
be paid back if the teacher will not teach in the rural school during the agreed penod of four years.
Sub- Component 1.3: Basic Education Conditions in Schools (US$34.42 million)
Objective
The objective of this sub-component is to upgrade education conditions in the most deprived rural
schools to a minimum functioning standard. More specifically, through this sub-component rural schools
will be helped to meet basic needs of students for school utilities and furniture. Following a general
inventory of school utilities and furniture, MER has prepared a list of more than 1,500 rural schools that
do not meet minimum standards for sanitation, water, heating, lighting and furniture.
List of Schools
Schools were selected and prioritized according to the following criteria:
o   the seventy of the school deprivation;
o   the number of students enrolled; and
o   the poverty of the community.
Before Board submission, using PHRD grant funds, an independent evaluation of the schools from the
list will be conducted, for identification of inclusion and exclusion errors. A sample of schools from the
list and outside the list will be used. If the level of errors identified is significant, MER will have to
revise the list and resubmit it to the Bank. In this case, a new independent evaluation will be conducted,
using project funds. Disbursements under this sub-component would be conditioned by full satisfaction
of the Bank with the list of schools to be upgraded. The exact number of schools to be upgraded under
this sub- component will depend on the actual costs of upgrading selected schools. These costs will not
be known before the preparation of detailed plans for upgrading. Once the prioritization of schools is
agreed, rehabilitation will be carried out starting with the highest priority needs, until the funds allocated
to this sub-component will be exhausted.
Manual and Handbook
The recent experience offered by the implementation of the School Rehabilitation project (in which 850
schools were rehabilitated so far and 350 schools are still to be rehabilitated) indicate the need for
developing design criteria and model solutions appropriate for rural areas. Consequently, during project
preparation, MER commissioned the preparation of a Manual on Appropriate Solutions for Upgrading
Schools. The Manual is to be used to guide the preparation of cost-effective upgrading plans for schools.
The manual is to provide recommendations based on the lessons learned under the School Rehabilitation,
and is to suggest the simplest solutions that are responsive to the needs in the selected schools. It will, for
example, provide guidance on when installation of heating systems may be justified in preference to
repair or replacement of individual stoves, and when repair of windows may be appropriate in order to
retain heat in the classroom. A separate Handbook on maintenance will be developed to include
- 52 -



guidelines and norms for communities on maintenance and management of school utilities The Manual
will be published and disseminated to all interested design companies. The Handbook will be distributed
to schools and local authorities. Actual solutions to be used in individual schools will be discussed with
teachers, parents and local authorities. After designs are prepared, stakeholders will again be consulted to
make sure that designs are responding to needs and are correlated with resources available within
communities.
Specific Upgrading Interventions
Under the project, schools lacking running water, toilettes, electricity, heating, benches, chairs and
blackboards will be provided with these facilities that are important for students well being. Actual
solutions to be used in individual schools will be discussed with teachers, parents and local authorities.
After designs are prepared, stakeholders will again be consulted to make sure that designs are responding
to needs and are correlated with availability of resources within communities.
Water and Toilet Facilities. The first priority of the sub -component is to improve sanitation in rural
schools by providing adequate water supply and toilet or latrine facilities to rural schools, which
currently lack any water supply. All rural schools, which lack water supply, will be provided with water
supply, and toilet/latrine facilities will be improved in order to improve sanitation conditions in schools.
Wherever possible, this will involve providing linkages to existing water networks- Where this is not
possible, it will involve providing a well and pump for the school, or, in extreme cases, where this is not
feasible, a reservoir-based water supply. Toilet facilities which pose health risks because they are too
close to schools will be relocated. Toilet and latrine facilities will be upgraded to make them more
sanitary, to reduce their environmental risks, and to facilitate regular servicing. Water will be provided to
toilet facilities, as well as to schools themselves. For schools, which lack separate facilities for boys and
girls, these will be provided.
Heating Facilities. The second pnority of the sub- component is to improve the effectiveness of teaching
and learning, as well as attendance in rural schools by improving school heating. In most cases, this will
involve replace existing classroom stoves with more effective models. In larger schools, it will involve
rehabilitation of heating systems.
Lighting. The third priority of the sub- component will be to support improved lighting and safety of
electrical systems in rural schools. Typically, this will involve better placement and modemization of
light fixtures to provide better illumination. It will also support an evaluation of the electrical circuits in
rural schools, to confirm that these fully meet safety requirements. Where improvements in electrical
circuits are necessary to meet safety standards, this upgrading will be provided (including provision of
lightening rods).
School Furmiture. The fourth priority of the sub- component will be to support the provision of school
furniture (student desks and chairs, blackboards, teacher desk and chair) to schools that lack adequate
furniture. The desks and chairs are to be suitable for group learning.
The implementation of this sub- component will be made through the same institutional arrangements as
the implementation of the School Rehabilitation project.
Sub-Component 1.4: Teaching- Learning Materials (US$18.01 million)
Objective
- 53 -



The objective of this sub-component is to ensure access of rural students to basic teaching-learming
materials. In addition, this sub-component will aim at increasing the efficiency of warehouses for
textbooks and teaching-learning materials.
The project will support the following activities: (i) provision of teaching-learning materials for
compulsory education rural schools; and (ii) provision of basic equipment for county warehouses stonng
textbooks and teaching-learning materials.
Teaching- learning materials
Basic teaching and learning materials will be provided to all primary and gymnasium rural schools,
excluding schools previously covered under the Education Reform Project (ERP) through the Rural
Education Pilot. Defining the discrete list of materials to be procured will be done using the experience
from the ERP - the Rural Education Pilot component (Impact Assessment, 2001). In the case of the eight
pilot counties included under the pilot, all rural schools received packages of booklets and materials to be
used in primary classrooms, supplemental reading, science equipment, maps and globes for lower
secondary schools.
In the frame of this Rural Education Project, schools would have the chance to actively participate in the
choice of the materials. A catalogue of materials will be defined based upon the identified needs and the
available funds, including such materials as: classroom mini- libraries for primary education, maps,
globes, and supplemental reading and science equipment for lower secondary education. Schools will
have a virtual allocation that will depend upon the type of school and enrollments.
The teaching-leaming materials catalogue. The catalogue will include two categories of items: (i) the
booklets and reading matenals to be used for primary education and dictionaries, encyclopedia for
secondary education; and (ii) materials such as mathematics games to be used for primary education,
globes, maps to be used for both primary and secondary education, science equipment for secondary
education.
Under the first category, a specialized commission appointed by MER will preselect the titles included in
the catalogue. The selection will be made as follows: publishers will be informed by the MER on the
upcoming selection during the specified book fair event; the publishers will display their offers including
price and discounts depending on number of copies; the commission will select booklets and other
reading materials taking into account curriculum needs, quality and price. The materials from the second
category, such as mathematics games, globes, maps and science equipment will be briefly described in
the catalogue (for example: map of Europe, its dimensions, to be used for grades 5-10).
Selection process. Schools would use their allocations to order such teaching-learning items. Individual
schools' selections should cover the needs in all grades in that school. It is estimated that selections could
range, as follows: for primary education, orders would include 50% booklets and 50% other materials;
for lower secondary, orders would include 25%-30% books such as dictionaries and encyclopedias and
70% materials. Schools will be guided in this process by the mentors who will circulate in the country
under the School Based Teachers' Professional Development sub- component (see sub-component 1.1
above). The mentors will distribute order forms to schools participating in trainings under
sub-component 1.1; an additional criterion for getting teaching- learning materials would be for teachers
to demonstrate that they are actively engaged in preparing their own matenals and that they are pursuing
the policy of recuperating textbooks in good condition and using them again. It is estimated that
approximately 8,000 schools will benefit from teaching-learning materials.
- 54 -



Procurement procedures. Materials will be centrally procured by the PMU and distnbuted to schools
through warehouses according to their requests. Two categories of procurement procedures will be used:
(i) direct contracting for booklets and reading materials which are of a proprietary nature, and (i i)
international competitive bidding for all the other materials.
County warehouses
Under this sub- component, the efficiency of the activity of textbooks and teaching- learming materials
warehouses will be increased. Basic equipment (a computer, a printer and a copier) will be provided to
warehouses in each county, thus improving the registration and monitoring system for textbooks and
materials. The contract for equipment provision will necessarily include training of the warehouses staff
on how to use such equipment. All 42 county warehouses in the country will receive both such
equipment and training in an estimated amount of US$5,000 per warehouse.
Given this infrastructure and training to be provided under the project, the MER will subsequently be in a
position to ensure the connection of all warehouses among themselves, with the schools in the network
and school inspectorates. This would give the possibility to have a more efficient textbooks distribution
and monitonng system.
Project Component 2 - US$11.93 million
Improve School-Community Partnerships
Objective
The objective of the School- Community Partnership component is to empower schools and comnmunities
to effectively improve the quality of education in rural schools. Schools and local authorities will be
encouraged to collaborate in diagnosing problems and in formulating and implementing solutions. In
addition, communication between schools and their clients within the community will be encouraged in
order to strengthen accountability for school performance.
The project will support two sets of linked activities: (i) it will provide assistance to Local Education
Councils (LECs), and county Commissions for Education Innovation and Development (CEIDs); and (ii)
it will fund and manage a School- Community Grants (SCG) Program for the purpose of motivating and
assisting communities in implementing local initiatives to improve learning.
Specific objectives. It is expected that the SCG program will bring about externalities such as, inter- alia,
at the local level, improvements in. (i) the collaborative environment between the rural schools and their
surrounding community (weak or nonexistent at the present time); (ii) the internal school behavioral
dynamics including horizontal and vertical communication among school actors (school principals,
teachers, students, inspectors, parents, etc.); (iii) learning and teaching processes; (iv) the internal school
efficiency in terms of increased completion rates and increased transition rates from one cycle to another;
and (v) the local capacity to manage the school system. It is also expected that this program will provide
SCG's stakeholders with new, non- traditional views, attitudes and approaches on how to address
pedagogical issues affecting the quality of education. Finally, at a national level, it is expected that this
SCG program will contribute improve the access of rural school students to quality education in
Romania.
Targeting
Targeting will be made through positive discriminatory criteria. The program will be applied nationwide
- 55 -



in 41 counties, comprising about 2,868 local councils and a little less than 12,000 rural schools. In this
context, it is important to consider the use of positive discriminatory criteria to ensure that: (i) the
program in fact improves equity; (ii) no single local council and rural school is denied access to the
competitive program during the entire project implementation cycle; and (iii) the program is implemented
within the financial limits of this component.
The positive discriminatory criteria are required to ensure that more proportional SCG resources are
allocated on a yearly basis to the counties showing significant acute rural school inequity issues, and
within each county, to the most needy rural schools that are able to prepare good-quality and pertinent
projects. In the absence of these criteria, there is a possibility to increase the rural school inequity, as the
most able rural schools, and the most capable counties will get the "lion share" of the totality of resources
made available by this project component during the entire implementation cycle.
Accordingly, the program will use a County index that indicates the degree of rural education inequity
severity in each jurisdiction and allows the ranking of counties accordingly in descending order. This
ranking provides an analytical instrument to construct a distnbution to allocate yearly SCG's resources to
counties in a proportion attuned to their inequity degree. With such a distribution, counties showing more
severe issues of rural education inequity will receive more yearly grants than those doing much better.
Starting with the second year of financing, it is envisaged that the amount allocated to each county is to
be related also to the evidence of county councils allocation of an increasing agreed percentage of non-
project related funds as a contribution to the long term financial sustainability of the SCG program.
The index includes for each county seven variables, as follows: (i) percentage of rural population; (ii) the
rural migration rate (from urban to rural areas); (iii) county rural development index (as defined by the
Romanian Social Development Fund); (iv) percentage of multi- grade teaching schools; (v) enrollment
rate; (vi) percentage of not promoted students; (vii) index of results at the Capacitate exammnation,
defined as the percentage of students with low performance (average mark under 7) relative to the
percentage of students with higher performance (average mark above 8). As of the second year of
implementation onwards, this index ought to include as an additional variable, a measure of the county
performance in implementing the SCG program in order to penalize those counties with unsatisfactory
performance and encourage those with highly satisfactory performance. It is expected that by mid-project
implementation cycle, and again, at the time the project is about to close, the county index will be
revisited in case it needs to be fine tuned. Details of the methodology used to structure the county index
are to be found in the project Operational Manual.
At the level of each county, a second index, the school risk degree is established, in order to group
proposals from participating rural schools according to their risk situation. This school index includes
five variables for each rural school, as follows: (i) village development index (as defined by the
Romanian Social Development Fund); (ii) percentage of students attending multigrade teaching classes;
(iii) percentage of not promoted students; (iv) learming outcomes (rate of students with "good" and "very
good" performance - for primary education; the results at the Capacitate examination - for gymnasium);
(v) participation at the Capacitate examination (the weight of 8th grade students who attended the
Capacitate examination). Rural schools are classified according to this index and to a given predefined
scale in: (a) high-risk; (b) medium-risk; and (c) low-risk schools. Clear indications on ranges based on
which a school is considered as falling under high-risk, medium risk or low-risk ranking are to be found
in the Operational Manual.
The school index is applied in order to improve equity if a significant portion of the yearly SCG
allocation approved to a county is utilized to finance good-quality and pertinent sub-projects prepared by
high-risk schools, but at the same time, allows for the financing of few good-quality and pertinent
- 56 -



sub-projects prepared by the low-nsk school. This latter set of sub-projects may have a positive
demonstrative effect in the long run. 50 percent of the resources approved to a county will go to finance
good quality and relevant proposals prepared by high-risk schools, 30 percent to medium-risk schools,
and 20 percent to low-risk schools. This distribution may be revised at the mid-term, and again, at the
time the project will close.
Both the county index, as well as the school risk degree index is constructed based on reliable, timely and
available information to perfonn their functions. Thus the variables included in the indexes were defined
on current available information and not on desirable information to be obtained at later stages of project
implementation. In the Operational Manual, the following are to be found: (i) a distribution for the
allocation of yearly grants to each county; and (ii) a proposal of the proportion of grants to be allocated
to each group of schools per county.
Sub-projects menu
The main categories of sub-projects will be:
(i) Sub- projects promoting students participation and providing support to disadvantaged students (e.g.
team work discovery, develop interactive leaming methods, students career guidance, tutoring
disadvantaged students, visits to museums and libraries located in cities, gardening - greenhouse, school
orchard or school botanic garden, processing local raw materials and food production, workshops, Junior
Achievement projects helping students to understand and appreciate free enterprise and provide them
with the necessary skills to play an active in economy.).
(ni) Sub- projects supporting the improvement of teacher's performance (e.g. develop games and games
techniques, development of cntical thinking skills and collaborative group learning using basic
multimedia environments, develop new didactical materials).
(iii) Sub- projects strengthening partnerships, opening the school to the community and providing small
repairs (e.g. school's open doors days, cultural community center, our community in facts and figures,
keep traditions alive, school radio station, school- community theater, small school repairs).
Eligibility
Eligibilitv criteria. The initial conditions that need to be met by interested parties in order to access the
competition process are:
*   sub-project proposal is endorsed by the LEC;
* there is evidence of the beneficiaries' contribution (in kind and/or in cash);
*   the proposal doesn't exceed the financial ceiling (US$7,000).
Eligible expenditures. Activities under grants have to be as flexible as possible; restrictions are to be set
only to percentages to be used for particular categories of expenditures after a piloting phase (for
example, no more than 45% of a grant would be acceptable to be allocated for small repairs or
equipment). Also, specific non- eligible items such as acquisition of land are mentioned in the
Operational Manual.
Possible universe. Given the demand driven character of the SGC program, it is difficult to foresee the
exact number of grants to be awarded. The program will cover a manageable number of grants and at the
same time will give the opportunity to compete for an amount at the level needed by any school in the
- 57 -



country. With an average project grant of US$4,000, it is expected that during the life of the project the
total number of approved grants will be around 2,500. A ceiling of US$7,000 will be used.
Learming curve. The learning curve is based on the following assumptions: (i) the duration of the project
implementation cycle is 6 years; (ii) approved sub-projects have a maximum implementation cycle of one
year; (iii) the first year of implementation (counted after effectiveness) will be mostly devoted to set the
SCG into motion, implying piloting the cycle from dissemination and awareness campaigns to signing the
first 200 GA, including the guiding of LECs, the training of the sub-project teams (SPTs) and the training
of the sub-project evaluators; and (iv) dunng the last year, no new preparation of proposals is to take
place as the project closes at the end of the sixth year and time is also needed to allow for an orderly
closure of the project. The approximate number of grants to be awarded yearly is the following: 200
grants in the first year of implementation; 425 grants in the second year of implementation; 625 grants in
the third year of implementation; 750 grants in the fourth year of implementation, and 500 in the fifth
year of implementation. In case the MER succeeds to have a faster implementation pace, the number of
grants to be awarded per year may be modified.
Expected SCG implementation schedule and its organization. Once the project is declared effective by
the Bank the following activities will take place: (a) dissemination and awareness activities of the SCG;
(b) identification of the first group of initial LECs to be assisted, based upon their demand; (c) training of
facilitators who will train both the LECs and SPTs; (d) training activities for the first group of LECs; (e)
training of the first group of SPTs; (f) completion of sub-project preparation activities; (g) training of the
staff of the County Project Implementation Unit (CPIU) who will have the role of evaluators and
supervisors; (h) review of the first set of proposals; and (i) signing of the first group of GAs. It is
estimated that as this process becomes recurrent and actors acquire expertise in managing it, the total
timing per cycle could be shortened to about six months, thus ensuring about two such project
evaluations per calendar year from year three onwards.
Qualified consultants (firns and/or NGOs) hired by the PMU will prepare the training materials and
modules needed for the above mentioned activities and will provide the training itself.
A local team of two (if necessary, three) persons will flmction at the local level as the CPIJ and
representing the technical branch of the Project Management Unit (PMU) during the SCG
implementation cycle; the CPIU will also function as the CEID's technical secretariat. The county CEID
will function as a decentralized Steenng Committee of this project component having the responsibility
of approving the sub-project proposals in the respective county (appraised by the CPIU from a different
county as described bellow); the CEID technical secretariat will organize and monitor the competition
events in their jurisdiction every year of the life of the project. This implies the CEID is overseeing that
all the stages included in the execution of the SCG programn at the local level are carried out
appropriately and timely.
The PMU will have a staff famuliarized with all the operational aspects of the SCG at the time of project
launching (on or about project effectiveness). This requirement will ensure appropriate management and
monitoring of the SCG program by the PMU. It will also ensure the carrying out of periodic random spot
checks in the field of all the operational aspects involved in the yearly execution of the SCG. The PMU
will rely on the two staff in its technical branches at the level of each county (CPIUs), to organize and
monitor the yearly competition activities and the implementation of approved proposals.
The SCG General Cycle
The five phases of the SCG general cycle: 1. dissemination and awareness activities; 2. preparation of
- 58 -



proposals, 3. evaluation of proposals; 4. entering of GAs, and 5. implementation and monitoring.
1. Dissemination and awareness activities. These activities are designed to reach the entire universe of
SCG stakeholders, including all the rural schools (about 12,000), all the LECs (about 2,868) and the 41
school inspectorates and county councils. The first promotion activities will offer information about the
general and specific objectives of the project and of the SCG program. To the extent possible promoters
should facilitate discussions of rural community education needs and problems, as well as possible
solutions. The SCG will be then presented as a tool to support solutions to education problems. Specific
information will be made available regarding: (i) the general charactenstics of the SCG process including
average amounts of grants and expected schedule; (ii) the competitive nature of this program; (iii) its
nationwide scope, (iv) its purposes; and (v) the steps to be taken by interested parties to participate in the
program, including an address to get further information. Dissemination brochures will have attached
standard letters of interest to be sent to the competition organizers. The letter of interest will contain
essential information about the school and the community attached to it, including number of grades
offered, enrollment and the number of teachers.
The PMU will start distributing early on the dissemination brochures and letters of interest based on its
plan for dissemination. Dissemination seminars will be organized in all counties; all school principals as
well as county council presidents or their designated representatives are expected to participate.
Operational Manual. An OM approved by the MER and satisfactory to the MPF and the Bank is a
condition of Board presentation. A draft OM was prepared. The OM has a section dedicated to the SCG
program. This will be sent to those LECs manifesting a participation interest in the form of a simple
document, user friendly, easy to read, with links to other separated SCG- related guidelines, such as the
ones for project preparation, evaluation guidelines, procurement and financial management.
The outline of the OM - SCG section includes: (i) background on the rural education equity issue in the
country; (ii) the rationality as to why the SCG can contribute to improve equity in the rural education
sector; (iii) general and specific objectives of the SCG; (iv) rules of the SCG program including the pre-
allocation and eligibility cnteria; (v) institutional arrangements of the SCG program and of the
organizational requirements of the yearly competition at the county level; (vi) description of the SCG
yearly cycle; (vii) general information concerning the steps involved in the preparation of a proposal
including diagnosis, setting of general and specific objectives of SCG proposal, operational description
of the proposal's activities, budget (recurrent and investment) and schedule; (viii) the training of LECs
and SPTs including monitoring and provision of on-site technical support during the preparation phase;
(ix) the evaluation process including criteria for eligibility and selection process, as well as matching
funds (in kind or money considered as beneficiary contribution; (x) GAs and accountability (fiduciary)
responsibilities; (xi) implementation process including disbursement of tranches and general information
on the rules of procurement of goods and service (selection of consultants); (xii) expenditure
documentation for reimbursement purposes; (xiii) monitoring; and (xiv) cross-dissemnation of
experiences. An Annex with a sample of the project preparation format is also to be found in the OM.
The OM will be written in Romanian and English.
2. Preparation of proposals. This SCG phase assumes the following sequential stages: (i) operational
LECs; (ii) guiding process with the LECs; (iii) operational SMCs and appointment of SPTs; (iv) training
of the SPTs; (v) project preparation;
Operational LECs The LEC is prepanng School Improvement Plans for all schools under their
jurisdiction in consultation with the SMC (see description bellow) of all schools in the respective
commune. The LEC is defined through the MER Order No. 4747/16.10.2001 - Art. 46, 48 of the Annex
- 59 -



- and will be set up at the commune level. The LEC will have maximum 15 members, as follows:
o      representatives of the SMCs of all schools in the comnune;
o      representatives of the local council;
o      the mayor;
o      representatives of local firms and other organizations (including the church).
The president of the LEC is elected and should be a teacher. Before embarking on the preparation of
School Improvement Plans, the LEC will be trained by facilitators on how to prepare such plans (see
bellow).
Facilitation process. The facilitation process aims at generating an enriching reflection and discussion
process of the LECs in the pedagogical context of the rural school(s) under their jurisdiction. In addition,
the facilitation process is required to set the appropnate enabling working and communication conditions
at the LEC level for three distinct groups of participants that have seldom worked as a team in the pursue
of a common goal (school stakeholders, members of civil society and local authorities). Facilitators will
support the process of comprehensive education planning in order to initiate the process of local capacity
building and school improvement. In order to do so, such facilitators will have been trained under the
project on preparing School Improvement Plans and on school effectiveness. In this LEC training
process, information and training manuals will be made available, detailing the different areas of school
planning and administration: preparation of school improvement plans; planning and administration of
budgets; raising own resources.
The rural school diagnosis, a reading of the complex school reality by the LECs need to include a
reflection on the strengths and weaknesses of that particular school with respect to: (i) its student
population; (ii) its teaching labor force; (iii) its pedagogical and managerial leadership or lack of it, from
the school principal and the supervisor and /inspectorate bodies; (iv) teaching materials including
textbooks and other reading material, as well as audiovisual equipment, computers, laboratories and other
teaching aids; (v) the classroom pedagogical transactions; (vi) the school behavioral climate and
communication among its actors, both horizontally among teachers, teachers and parents, school and its
community, as well as vertically, between students and teachers, teachers and school principals; (vii) the
opinion (perception) that the community has about their images of the school (mirror diagnosis); (viii)
school management; and (ix) the community social and economical contextual situations including the
students' families and their support into the day-to-day education of their children.
School development plans. The LECs will formulate an institutional school development plan for each
rural school under their jurisdiction. It has been the sad experience in many other countries, that when
these school plans are formulated as part of a requirement coming from the upper echelon authorities,
disconnected from concrete school activities addressing specific pedagogical school-related issues, once
these are finished, they are seldom used. This plan has to emerge from the discussions taking place at the
level of the LECs, once a SCG is in execution, and observable benefits (externalities) are available. Then
a school development plan can be formulated in an inductive fashion (bottom-up) as a natural next step to
follow up on the impact of the SCG.
The number of facilitators needed to carry out the yearly guiding process required is determined as a
function of the number of LECs entering that year in the SCG program and assuming a ratio of three
proposals for one approved grant; the consultant (firm and/or NGO) hired by the PMU will be entrusted
with setting in motion this guiding processes.
Operational SMCs and Appointment of SPTs. Based on the School Improvement Plan, the SMC, in
- 60 -



consultation with the LEC, is defining the objectives of a project proposal and designates a sub-project
team (SPT). A SPT has at least three members including the school principal, a teacher and a
representative of the community (possibly a parent).
The SMC is established through the Law of Education, Art 145, item I - It is functioning at the school
level, in the case of schools with legal authority. The SMC includes 5-11 members, as follows:
*      head teacher;
*      deputy head teacher;
*      chief accountant;
*      teacher(s) designated by the teachers' council;
*      representatives of parents;
*      representatives of local public administration;
*      representatives of local finns;
*      representatives of affiliated smaller schools (which do not have a legal entity status).
Training of SPTs. SPTs are trained by facilitators (who are also training the LECs on School
Improvement Plans) on how to prepare a sub-project proposal. Training materials and modules are to be
developed immediately after the project has been declared effective. This is a key element in the entire
SCG program. The success of this program and the preparation of good-quality and pertinent proposals
largely depends on the appropriateness and effectiveness of the training materials and modules, as well as
on the quality and leadership played by both the master trainers and the trained facilitators themselves.
The training materials need to consider that a project preparation activity requires enabling the SPT to
translate their pedagogical experience into a concrete project with a standardized format with a unique
content depending on the particular issue to be addressed by this proposal.
Sub-Project preparation and submission. The SPTs will prepare the sub-project proposal and send it to
the CPIU. The CPrU will screen all proposals for eligibility and sends back non- eligible proposals with
comments. The eligible proposals are consolidated and sent to the PMU.
The SCG program assumes that the SPTs seek guidance from their LECs during the preparation exercise.
This in turn assumes, that LECs need to review and monitor the progress of the preparation of the
proposal, and endorse the final version of the sub-project proposal.
3. Evaluation of proposals. The SCG evaluation process requires: (i) functional CEIDs at each county
whose key personnel has been involved in SCG program awareness activities ; (ii) the availability of
evaluation guidelines and procedures; (iii) a crosscutting evaluation procedure; and (iv) feedback to
recipients of approved and non- approved proposals.
CEIDs. CEIDs will be established as sub-commissions of the existing County Commissions for
Establishing the Annual Average Education Costs. The CEIDs should necessarily include the chief
inspector of the School Inspectorate (or the deputy), the prestdent of the County Council (or the deputy).
The CEIDs play the role of decentralized Steering Committees for this project component.
Each CEID will be assisted by two qualified staff, one of them skilled in pedagogical matters and another
in information technology. Such staff will function as the CPIU and as a technical secretariat of the
CEID. It is expected that as a condition for Board, the Borrower will provide terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the selection of qualified staff in the CPIU in the totality of counties in the
country.
- 61 -



The CPIU will perform the required eligibility screening of submitted proposals in the respective county
and appraisal and ranking of proposals submitted in a different county. The CPIU staff will receive
appropriate training in sub-project evaluation prior to the start of their activities. It is expected that each
member of the CPIU will review every proposal. Discussion among CPIU members will be held to
achieve consensus only with those controversial proposals showing significantly different ranking by
each CPIU member.
Evaluation guidelines and procedures. The training of CPIU will also be done by the qualified
consultants (firms and/or NGOs) that will develop appropriate training materials and modules, and in
addition, conduct the training of the CPIUs. It is expected that by mid-project implementation cycle, and
then again, at project completion, the CPIUs will receive a refresher training on evaluation aspects,
factoring in all the lessons learned during the life of the SCG program. Evaluation guidelines and
procedures need to ensure that the assessment of proposals is done under a standardized context along all
participating counties, in order to ensure the highest degree of objectivity in the utilization of the agreed
assessment criteria.
Evaluation criteria. The following evaluation criteria will be used:
o   the extent to which the proposal objective is in line with the School Improvement Plan;
o   the extent to which the proposal is addressing the problems of disadvantaged groups (e.g. Roma);
o   justification of per-student cost;
o   soundness of the financial plan;
o   the extent to which the proposal addresses and solves environmental issues (if any);
o   sub- project sustainability.
Crosscutting evaluation procedure. Based on the proven good expenence of other evaluation activities
carried out in Romania, like the ones conducted by the National Assessment and Examination Service,
and in order to ensure transparency in the entire evaluation and ranking procedure, to avoid corruption
and political interference, proposals from one county will be appraised in another county. Proposals are
submitted by SPTs to their corresponding CPIU, where a screening takes place to see if the proposal
complies with the eligibility criteria. Only eligible proposals, grouped by degree of school risk, are
submitted to the PMU. The PMU removes the identification of the proposals and encodes them. The
PMU then randomly assigns the eligible, anonymous proposals grouped by school risk from one county,
to be reviewed and ranked by the CPrU in another county. It is important that the recipient county
maintains certain cultural affinity with the county of origin, in order to increase the likelihood of project
contextual understanding during the evaluation process. Appraised and ranked proposals are submitted
back to the PMU, with a signed Minute of the Appraisal process. The PMU uncodes the proposals by
assigning them their right identification and sends them back to the CPIU (county) of origin. The CPIU
submits all proposed projects and the recommendations for financing to its CEID for approval. After
final evaluation, the CEID sends to the PMU the list of approved projects and the minutes of the approval
meeting which records any deviation from the recommendations made by the CPIU that appraised the
project proposals. The PMU prepares and submits to the education minister a report including all the
proposals approved for financing and the minutes received from CEIDs. The minister decides on
financing the proposed list of projects.
Feedback. Whereas, the recipients of the approved proposals will receive a notification from their
corresponding CPIU instructing them to sign a GA, those recipient of non- approved proposals need to
receive a constructive feedback from the CPIU's findings corresponding to the review of their proposals.
This in tum, requires the CPIU's members to be trained in providing positive feedback to communicate to
the responsible SPTs of non- approved sub-projects how to enhance their proposals and encourage them
- 62 -



to submit them in the next round of grants allocation.
4 Grant Agreements. Depending on the legal status of the schools that are awarded grants, the PMU wl lI
conclude GAs as follows:
*      with the principal and the accountant of the school that was awarded the grant, in case the school
has a legal status;
*      with the principal of the coordinating school, the pnncipal of the school that was awarded the
grant and the accountant of the coordinating school, in case the school does not have a legal status and is
affiliated to a coordinating school;
*      with the mayor, the principal of the school that was awarded the grant and the mayor's office
accountant, in case the school does not have a legal status and is financially affiliated to the mayor's
office
Once a GA is signed, and evidence of matching funds (at least 10% of the total sub-project cost - in cash
and/or in kind) is presented by the recipient, the SPT opens an account in which the PMU sends the first
tranche of the grant. As a rule, grants under US$ 1,000 will be disbursed in two tranches (90%; 10%)
Grants above US$ 1,000 will be disbursed in three tranches (30%, 60%, 10%). In special situations, the
GA may specify other percentages. In these cases, the project proposal should specifically include a
justification for the deviation from the general rule. Tranches will be released upon presentation of
evidence of progress (completion of activities, as the case may be) and supportive expenditure
documentation. The CPIU supervises the sub-projects and informs the PMU when conditions are met for
disbursement of subsequent tranches.
It is expected that the recipient will, keep all the supportive expenditure documentation as well as
progress reports in case they are subjected to Bank and/or Government random post-review process.
5. Implementation and monitoring. In order to ensure implementation readiness of all the approved
proposals the following aspects will be covered:
Procurement and Financial management. Simple Bank procurement financial management guidelines
and short training will be offered to recipients of approved grants immediately after GA signing (prior to
their sub-project launching activities) in order for them to be able to procurement procedures and
maintain proper accounting and supportive expenditure documentation. This documentation will most
likely be in the forms of invoices, receipts, bills, payrolls, etc.
Appropriate and timely on-site technical support. The supervisors from the CPIUs will provide on-site
advisory support for implementation. Once sufficient SCG experience is achieved, it is conceivable to
utilize graduates of this program (recipients who have completed successful proposals), as institutional
on-site providers of technical assistance to newcomers. The Bank-financed project could then facilitate
the mobilization and logistics of the on-site support provided by these graduates to be.
Participatory monitoring. The use of participatory monitoring is essential in SCG programs. In this
respect, the grant supervision will be performed by the CPIU staff with participation of a peer reviewer
from another village or community, as well as with the participation of local stakeholders.
Management Information System. A management information system will be mounted in each CPIU to
monitor information related to the SCG program, such as: (i) proposals in execution including physical
and financial progress; (ii) proposals whose implementation has been completed; (iii) proposals under
preparation; (iv) number and identification of non- approved proposals; and (v) other relevant related
- 63 -



information. The PMU will select a qualified consultant (individual or firm) to centrally design such a
system and, once it is fully functional, mount it in each CPIU. A SCG- related management information
system (MIS), as part of a larger MIS related to the entire Bank-financed Rural Education Project will be
used.
The biannual Bank field supervision missions will provide an important (additional) source to assess and
monitor the effectiveness of this program.
The costing of the SCG program includes the carrying out of regional cross-fertilization events
(dissemination activities, brochures, newsletters, videos, etc), in order to promote networking among
recipients of ongoing "successful" Grants and/or to provide sound advice to incoming recipients of
approved grants or to interested parties in accessing the grant's fund.
Project Component 3 - USS 3.34 million
Strengthen Monitoring, Evaluation and Policy Making Capacity
Objective
The overall objective of this component is to ensure the sustainability of the project by strengthening
capacity in leadership and decentralized educational management at the local level and increasing the
institutional and analytical capacity at national and local levels for policy analysis, formulation and
planning. This will lead to: (i) improved capacity for management for results, based upon data and
information on educational outcomes that are continuously collected and analyzed; and (ii) a range of
policies and decisions that ensure quality education, equity and efficiency, especially for -rural students.
The objectives will be attained through:
o   establishing the National Education Indicators (NEI);
o improving the National Education Database (NED);
o   preparing a National Assessment of Basic Education (NABE).
National Education Indicators
Obiective. The objective of establishing a National Education Indicators (NEI) set is to provide the
policy makers as well as the public at large with an accurate overview of the education and training
system (E&TS) in Romania. As Romania moves towards joining the European Community, the NEI set
needs to comply with the World Education Indicators (WEI), the Education for All (EFA) indicators, the
European Statistics (EUROSTAT) indicators, the UNESCO indicators, the OECD indicators, the Quality
Indicators for Life Long Learning (EU), and the OECD, UNESCO and EUROSTAT- compatible set of
indicators to be used to assess of the implementation of the work program of the European Commnission's
Standing Group on Indicators (SGI). For each indicator, the NEI set will provide the following:
definition; purpose; formula; data required; data sources; type of desegregation; interpretation; quality
standards; limitations; compliance. The NEI set will provide a classification of the indicators in
accordance with the strategic objectives for the development of the E&TS in Romania towards 2010,
including desegregation that allow analysis of the problems of rural education. The NEI set will include
definitions and examples of benchmarks. Establishment of the NEI set will be done in cooperation with
the National Institute for Statistics (NIS) and will be promoted through a ministerial ordinance.
Activities. For the purpose of developing the national mdicators a full-time group of 3 persons, the
national coordinating unit, will be established. This unit will report to the minister and will be
- 64 -



responsible for all three areas of activity on this component of the project. On the indicators
sub-component, the unit will work with a selection of education experts from the Institute of Education
Sciences, universities and other research institutions, teachers and specialists from MER, etc. This work
group will cooperate with the NIS and the experts working within the network of work groups of the
European Commission (EC) for the implementation of the detailed work program on follow-up of the
objectives of education and training systems throughout Europe. The development of Romania's
indicators will be achieved starting from analyses and research on the national and international
indicators in education elsewhere (their classification, definition and interpretation criteria) and the
availability and accuracy of data in Romania. A comparative study will be prepared on the national and
the international indicators of education and their potential application in Romania. Together with these
activities, field visits will also be organized (meetings with the departments within CSI for the purpose of
analyzing the types of means used for data collection, the human resources involved and their training
needs etc.). Also, consideration will be given to analyzing the evaluation indicators for the European
Commission's education system and to selecting and adjusting the European indicators to Romania's
needs. As a result of this analysis and research activity, a Manuallbooklet for implementing the national
indicator system for education in Romania will be drafted.
Dissemination of the National Education Indicators will take place by:
* publishing the booklet for the national indicator system for education in Romania:
* organizing a National Conference to discuss the indicators and the current situation;
* organizing 6- 8 regional seminars similar to the National Conference;
* organizing workshops at the local level (for staff training in basic information gathering and
processing).
Institutional arrangements. Setting up NEI will involve a number of institutions that are part of this field,
the main role being played by the Ministry of Education and Research, the National Institute of Statistics
(NIS), and the Institute for Education Sciences. Also, in order to develop NEI, protocols will be issued
for collaboration with the Ministry of Labor and Social Solidarity (MLSS) and the National Work Force
Agency (NWFA), which will be used:
* to select the indicators to be included in the booklet for the national indicator system;
* to adjust, in accordance with the selected indicators, the statistical questionnaire(s) for collecting the
basic information used by MER-CSI (the specialized departments) and NIS- the County Statistics
Departments, so as to match the marked indicators (to enable their being calculated);
* to set up, in agreement with NIS, MLSS and NWFA, the pattern for collecting the data for the job
statute of pre-university graduates;
* to adopt the definitions, the calculation method, the interpretation etc. used by the international
organizations in the field of education, in order to accurately evaluate the quality, the efficiency and
the results of the education system in Romania and to enable a companson with the education
systems in other countries.
Outputs. The following outputs are expected:
* An experts' team and experts' network on education indicators will be developed. This network will
include both people at the central level and people from institutions at all levels of the education
system. This network will provide the education system with new possibilities for understanding and
adjusting the processes, which it oversees.
* The statistical questionnaire(s) for collecting basic data will be revised.
* The NEI set booklet will be published. It will include: aspects regarding the compatibility between
- 65 -



the European Commission's indicator system for education and the national system; the list of
indicators for evaluating the education system in Romania: definition, purpose, calculation method,
basic data required, data sources, data structure, interpretation, quality standards, limitations. The
NEI set booklet will be intended for the staff engaged in collecting and processing basic information
about the education system in order to improve the indicators' completeness and accuracy; for the
teachers in order to optimize the teaching process and to raise the awareness of how to reflect on and
to improve their own activity at the institutional level; for the experts in evaluation of the education
system; and for the policy makers in order to ensure a scientific basis for the educational policy.
O   The NEI booklet will be dissemunated. The dissemination of the NEI set booklet will lead to its being
used for the National Evaluation Report for the education system (achieved within component 3.3), a
document that is expected to become the basis for the policies that will continue the educational
reform already underway (and to which the World Bank has been contributing).
O Awareness and skill of policy makers, administrative staff and teachers on the use of educational
indicators in decision-making, planning, monitoring and evaluation will be increased.
National Education Database
Objective. The objective of this sub- component is to ensure that the concrete content and structure of the
NED will supply accurate indictors on a timely basis so that they may be used for monitoring, evaluation
and policymaking.
Activities. Building on the MIS infrastructure and experience of the nineties, the existing national
database will be restructured in accordance with the new NEI set according to the definitions, data
requirements and desegregation types for each indicator of the NEI set. The NED will permit calculation
of each indicator as per NEI set and will also include results of all national assessments, evaluations and
examinations (including PISA, TIMSS, PIRLS and 4th grade national students' assessment). Besides
actual data and indicators the National Education Data will also include an electronic library consisting
of documents produced during researches performed on the E&TS. The documents to be included will be
selected according to criteria to be established. The NED will be structured at four access levels (for
consultation and reports printing): policy makers (MER); central administration personnel and
representatives of the central administration (MER, NIS & other central institutions and ministries,
county school inspectorates, county council); local administration personnel (school headmasters, local
council); and the public. The NED will be stored on the MER's Data Center and will be fully compatible
with the existing and further developed ICTAided Educational System program and will be accessible
on-line through the MER portal. Access will be granted at the previously mentioned four levels ensuring
full security. A complete set of procedures, rules and regulations on the update and consultation of the
national database will be elaborated and promoted through at least ministenal ordinance (if not higher
level legislation act - e.g. inter-ministerial ordinance or GOR ordinance).
Description of the proposed solution. The solution builds on the existing information and communication
technologies used by the MER. The database will be upgraded in accordance with the requirements of an
open information system that uses agreed-upon indicators for reporting. The process of putting this
solution in place includes: (i) establishment of the selection criteria for the electronic library; (ii)
installation of the NED on the MER Data Center hardware; (iii) establishment of the procedures, rules
and regulations on the update and consultation of the NED with formal sanctions through ministerial
ordinance or higher-level legislative acts; and (iv) granting access to the NED according to the
procedures, rules, and regulations established.
The solution relies on the existing MER data center and its communication capabilities. The Data Center
will store the data and will allow for creation of specialized reports through high-level multidimensional
- 66 -



analyses The existing educational portal of the MER (http://portal.edu.ro) will be extended and will be
used as a single point of access for communications, data entry, and reporting for all components of the
solution The portal is hosted on the MER's data center and already offers both public and private/secure
access to its functions, and it is suitable for further modular development Partial copies of information
(based on relevance considerations) will be stored in county school inspectorates and even in schools.
Since most of the hardware to support the database and its use is already developed or under
development, at least down to the county level, the project's funding of hardware is minimal.
The main activities related to implementation are outlined below under the following headings:
establishing the primary system to collect the data from the system, data comrnunication, national
data-storage, collection of raw-data, levels of analysis, publishing information for the public.
Establishing the primary system for data collection. The pnmary data collection will be processed at the
regional and national level with unique statistical methods, which will reduce the risk of a wrong report.
The local data collection component is present with each school, including the rural schools, connected
or not to the Internet. The local data collection component must incorporate statistical functions,
graphical functions of multi- parameter representation, prediction functions and others to be defined
later. The data communication to the system will be achieved from all types of terminals developed by
up-to-date technology (computer, wireless equipment, cable communications).
Data-communications. The communication root for the solution is the INTERNET. The INTERNET
provides the means for sharing data, accessing information at various levels, updating regional or
national data stores. An important note is that Internet is not pnmarily used for web browsing, but for
automated data transfer. The communication is vital for other sub-components such as collection of
raw-data and high-level analysis. This sub-component also supports the communication infrastructure.
Communication infrastructure involves providing all levels in the educational hierarchical structure with
physical means for connecting to INTERNET. The main INTERNET infrastructure is provided by
RoEduNet, the educational INTERNET provider funded by MER. RoEduNet already covers MER and
every CSI office. Pilot projects have already been conducted for testing the reliability of the INTERNET
for connection of educational units throughout the country, one of them being the computerized
admission and distribution of candidates in secondary school units (ADLIC- Admiterea in liceu
computerizata). Funds will be provided within this project to insure the connection at the lowest level
possible. The solution proposed does not aim to insure Internet connection in each school; INTERNET
connection will be made available in cluster, below the county level that will serve groups of schools
located in the proximity. In time, the network will become more and more refined, until each school will
have its own INTERNET connection. Since all schools have computers, those schools without
connection to the INTERNET will initially submit their data on diskettes.
Connectivity services. Mostly RoEduNet will make services available. The project will help to strengthen
RoEduNet's information infrastructure in order to improve the effectiveness of communications between
the project end-users and promoters.
National data-store. The only means for obtaining instant reports and having an instant view of the actual
present situation of the educational system is to have all relevant data stored in a central database. The
solution proposed here will re-use the powerful platform already existing at MER, consisting of an
adequate-capacity data center and of the Oracle platform.
Collection of raw-data. This activity is essential for the instant creation of onginal reports or statistical
and multidimensional analysis. Raw-data must be collected from the lowest levels in the educational
hierarchical structure, which are the schools. Raw-data collected from schools is transferred to regional
county offices. Although the regional authorities have the possibility for regional interpretation and
analysis of data, for obtaining reports of regional relevance, the raw-data will be transferred from
regional servers to the national data-store "as is", and not in an aggregated form. This allows for the
- 67 -



MER to obtain its own national interpretations, analysis and reports in a customable manner.
Software for collection of raw data. Software will be made available at all levels in the educational
administrative hierarchy.
Levels of analysis. A set of NEI will be defined both for public information and for intemal MER
analysis (as mentioned above). Interpretation and analysis of the data will be executed at each level:
school level, CIS and MER. The data set must not be regarded as a static set of metrics. Existence of
raw-data within the NED allows for metrics to be refined, or even completely new ones to be defined, as
new needs for analysis arise. For local schools, a basic set of reports will be available. The reports must
be customable in an adequate manner, including: selecting level of detail and quantity of information
presented. In the county school inspectorates (CSIs), data interpretation and analysis will be done with
modem multidimensional analytic tools already available in each county office. MER will perform a
training needs analysis in each CSI before training will take place. Basic reports (containing non-
interpreted data or other simple reports), and also results of high-level analysis will be made available
for authorized personnel from the county education database or from the national database - through
secured INTERNET connection.
Analysis performed by the MER.. Data interpretation and analysis will be done by modem
multidimensional analysis tools already available in MER. MER personnel will have access to
information based on three levels of privilege: a) IT administrators - to maintain and administer the
educational database. b) Operators - to create specialized reports through high-level multidimensional
analysis; the operators are provided with simple tools for creating the reports. They must have knowledge
in the field of statistical analysis. A training program will be conducted for the specialized compartments
in MER for operation of the analysis tools. The departments envisaged are not only "Evaluation,
Prognosis and Development" and "Budget and Finance", but also all the other departments according to
specific needs. c) MER officials and decision makers: basic reports (containing non- interpreted data or
other simple reports), and also results of high-level analysis will be made available to authorized
personnel from the county education database and from the NED through secure INTERNET
connections.
Publishing information for the public. MER web sites already offer services for publishing basic
information regarding the educational system. The services will be upgraded according to the indicators
defined within this project. Raw-data will be made available to the public to the extent the information is
not private/confidential (such as personal information for school personnel or pupils). The collaboration
that started in the last two years with the ADLIC project between MER and the Romanian Ombudsman
institution ("Avocatul Poporului") will be continued with regard to the privacy of information and what
can be published legally.
Dissemination. One of the main methods for the dissemination of the project is the Web. The educational
portal offers information on the educational system (as stated above), information on the projects within
the educational system: stage, success indicators, and other information that should be public.
The electronic lhbrary. The central coordination unit will organize the library and the input of the data
will be made on-line using the second and the third access levels of the NED. The annual timetable for
the updating of the NED for the first two sectors (raw statistical data and assessments data) will be
established. The timetable will be promoted through ministerial ordinance and it will be established
within the existing and the to-be-created institutional structures the exact responsibilities regarding the
input for the NED.
Institutional arrangements. Achieving the objectives with respect to indicators and the database requires
setting up new institutional arrangements that will satisfy the following requirements: (i) the backbone of
- 68 -



the institutional structure to support implementation of the component will have two coordinating levels:
a central one and a local one; (ni) the central coordination level will consist of a small MER based unit
working in cooperation with the MER and external structures of the MER (the various institutions
subordinated to the MER, other institutions related to the E&TS); the central coordination unit will
ensure coordination of the activities related to the establishment and use of the system herein envisaged,
will lead the preparation, elaboration and publishing of the National E&TS Assessment (see below), will
penodically provide policy makers with the necessary information required for decision making,
planning, monitoring and evaluation processes, and will ensure public dissemination on the developments
in the field of education (an annual public report starting in 2006); (iii) at local level a professional will
be nominated at each school inspectorate (e.g. the deputy general inspector in charge with evaluation,
development and prognosis); the local professional will ensure coordination of the activities related with
the input for the NED as well as the access and dissemination of the processed information from the
NED, hence supporting decision, planning, monitonng and evaluation at local level down to the school
level.
For staff at both the central and local levels to guide the activities for improving the system's analytic
and policy-making capacity administrative staff will need training to contribute to and benefit from the
(processed) information stored in the NED. Therefore, all the administrative staff at both central and
local levels (down to county school inspectorates) needs to have basic digital competences. The
European Computer Driving License (ECDL)/ECDL.- start is considered as the required standard for
basic digital competences (sub-contracting training for the MER and county school inspectorates'
personnel in order to achieve ECDL/ECDL- start.
Outputs. The following outputs are expected:
* A functional national and publicly accessible database that produces information on education
indicators for all actors involved in developing the educational policies and managing and
coordinating the education system
* A central coordination unit with specified concrete responsibilities related to policy-making,
monitoring, and evaluation of the E&TS.
* Local professionals with data processing and analysis skills (at least an ECDL/ECDL- start diploma)
* The improved use of data and information on the education system to inform and explain the
Government's educational reform and development activities.
National Assessment of Basic Education
Objectives. The objectives of preparing a National Assessment of Basic Education (NABE) are twofold:
(i) to provide the opportunity for a national public dialogue on the Romanian Education system after ten
years of reform; and (ii) to provide an empincal analysis of the performance of the Basic Education
system upon which to plan further improvements in Romanian Basic Education, particularly for the rural
population
Activities: The Ministry of Education and Research has decided to undertake an overall assessment of
Basic Education (grades 1-10) using information on indicators from the NED, student assessment results
on national examinations and in the international student achievement studies in which Romania is
participating, and commissioned studies of specific issues. It is envisioned that the following activities
will be initiated, coordinated, and used by the national coordination team to prepare a published report
that can be discussed and disseminated in 2008:
1. The existing teams working on the PISA, TIMSS, and PIRLS international student assessment
programs will complete Romania's participation in these studies in the next four years.
- 69 -



2. MER will conduct a national assessment of student achievement in grade 4 in 2003 and 2006, as it
did in 1998 and 2000, and use the comparative results to assess progress on educational reforms, and
their impact on rural areas;
3. MER will sponsor a national school effectiveness study using existing student achievement data from
Romania's own and the international achievement examinations in order to establish empirically
which school and non- school factors contribute significantly to school achievement (both studies
will result in a publication and dissemination).
4. Starting in 2006 MER will publish an annual national synthetic report on the system using the
indicators and national database that will be established by then. The national annual report will draw
on county reports that will also be the basis for each county preparing an annual plan based on
system perfornance.
5. Based on a preliminary analyses of the issues related to student achievement, MER will prepare and
sponsor related studies that will explore locally the issues identified. One of these studies will be a
multi- year longitudinal study on this project's interventions that will collect baseline information on
selected variables, including student achievement, in 2003/2004 and revisit the study's sample sites
over the next four years to provide data on the project's inputs and their influence on the schools'
performance.
6. As this work progresses, the national coordinating unit will conduct seminars and workshops that
will discuss the implications of all studies, national and local, in order to frame the content of and
prepare the planned report that assesses the performance of Basic Education (the National
Assessment).
7. MER will prepare the National Assessment Report and disseminate it through a national conference,
regional seminars, and wide availability to the public of the written report.
Institutional Arrangements. The national coordinating unit will be responsible for planning the details of
the work to be undertaken in support of the National Assessment. It will link this work's activities to the
start of annual reporting on indicators (to start in 2006) and their implications through frequent
interaction of the people involved. The unit will also be responsible (in the frame of the research
program related to the National Assessment) for defining the research questions, the scope and location
of the studies, time frames, and Terms of Reference (both general and subject-specific) for researchers to
be commissioned to carry out the work. Technical Assistance for these tasks, both local and intemational,
will be needed and has been budgeted.
Outputs. The following outputs are expected:
o   published results of the PISA, TIMSS, PIRLS and 4th grade assessment studies;
o   published studies on school effectiveness, project influence on school performance, and other studies
that explore questions raised by the assessment test results and the other studies;
o   a NABE (published and disseminated);
o   the availability of annual and semester reports on the E&TS from each county (published);
o   methodology for annual planning at county school inspectorates and schools;
o   county annual plans formulated based on data analysis under implementation throughout the country.
Project Component 4 - US$6.56 million
Strengthen Project Management Capacity
The objective of this component is to provide support to project implementation, including project
monitonng and evaluation and to ensure that all stakeholders and the public at large are informed about
the project.
-70-



Implementation units
The PMU and its decentralized units. Under the component, support will be provided for the operation of
a PMU within MER that is already functioning and has implemented the PHRD preparation grant. The
PMU will have at all times at least the following core staff: director, coordinators of the 3 components,
procurement specialist, financial specialist, and secretary/translator. The PMU will (i) coordinate the
activity of the MER's departments and agencies, of various institutions and of local authorities involved
in the project implementation; (ii) ensure that procurement and financial management activities are
conducted according to Bank procedures; (iii) coordinate project monitoring and evaluation activities;
(iv) coordinate implementation of the project information, education and communication strategy. The
PMU will coordinate all activities under the project, providing timely and cost-efficiently resources to
implementing groups. At the same time, the PMU will ensure that all resources are managed according to
the Bank requirements for procurement and financial management.
The PMU will establish in each county a small (two staff) project implementation unit (CPIUs). The
CPIUs will be involved mainly in implementing component 2 (organizing rounds of competition,
supervising sub-projects etc.). Additional consultants may be hired in CPIUs, to cope with increased
workload, when a high number of sub-projects will need to be processed.
The School Rehabilitation PMU. Under the component, support will be also provided to the School
Rehabilitation PMU (SR PMU) that is implementing another Bank financed project. The SR PMU will:
(i) coordinate the activity of defining and prioritizing the list of schools to be upgraded; (ii) coordinate
the distnbution of the Manual: (iii) contract the development of the maintenance guidelines and ensure
its distribution; (iv) procure design services and upgrading works; (v) monitor the quality control of
works; (vi) monitor the consultation process at local level. In its activity, the PMU will use its district
project implementation units.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The PMU will be in charge with project monitoring and evaluation and progress reporting by using its
own MIS. In line with these responsibilities, the PMU will be in charge of commissioning a program of
study for sample surveys of students in schools benefiting from project interventions to assess project
outcome progress (as described in detail under component 3), including the provision of a methodology
and appropnate monitoring indicators for measuring the final impact of project interventions beyond its
completion. The PMU will coordinate this activity through which assessments of immediate project
impact would be further on integrated into the MER final measurement of the full impact of the project in
the long run.
The PMU will also be responsible for the preparation and submission to the Bank of annual reports on
implementation progress, a Mid-Term Evaluation Report (by June 15, 2006) in view of the Mid-Term
Review (no later than September 15, 2006)..
Information Education Communication.
The PMU will coordinate the IEC activities that will aim at: (i) informing the general public about the
goals and progress of the project; (ii) targeting special groups (teachers, parents and local authorities) to
highlight the benefits of the project and build the necessary support among key stakeholders; (iii) ensure
transparency on all activities developed under the project. Special promotion materials will target local
authorities, in order to increase their involvement in education.
- 71 -



Through the IEC activities, the PMU will support the MER's efforts to explain the reform and the project
to peers and constituents, not just at the outset of the project, but throughout its life and beyond. At a
more general level, the purpose of IEC activities would be to provide grounds for a permanent dialogue
between the MER and the society at large, given that the education reform program in Romania will have
a significant agenda of ongoing tasks both during this project, but also beyond it. The target audiences,
the messages and the means of delivering those messages would be best designed locally and the PMU
would coordinate this activity.
To ensure effective coordination of project implementation, the project will finance: (i) technical
assistance and training in project management, procurement, financial management (including
disbursements) and use of software; (ii) incremental operating expenses of the PMU staff and share of
expenses of the SR PMU staff; (iii) essential office equipment, software and cars; (iv) workshops and
seminars; (v) development, production and dissemination of outreach materials; (vi) production and
broadcasting of TV and radio programs; (vii) surveys and focus groups; (viii) incremental operating costs
of the PMU including cost of communication, translation, interpretation, banking fees, transportation,
office supplies, equipment maintenance, audit fees.
- 72 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ROMANIA: Rural Education Project
Local       Foreign  .    Total
Project Cost By Component          ,E US $milfion   us $Mlli     US     o
Component 1. Improve Teaching and Learning in Rural    48.76         19.15       67.91
Schools
Component 2. Improve School- Community Partnerships    11.70         0.23        11.93
Component 3. Strengthen Monitoring, Evaluation and Policy  2.61      0.73         3.34
Making Capacity
Component 4. Strengthen Project Management Capacity     6.19         0.37         6.56
Unallocated                                             0.00          1.26        1.26
Total Baseline Cost                                    69.26        21.74        91.00
Physical Contingencies                                                           0.00
Price Contingencies                                                              0.00
Total Project Costs             69.26        21.74        91.00
Front-end fee                   0.00         0.00
Total Financing Required            69.26        21.74        91.00
Local       Foreigjn      Total
Project Cost By Category       .^     US $mililon  US $million  US $million
Goods, Equipment and Materials                           10.46         20.09        30.55
Works                                                    26.70          0.00        26.70
Consultant Services                                       2.39          0.14         2.53
Training                                                  3.48          0.25         3.73
Grants                                                   11.00          0.00        11.00
Consultant Services - Local Firms                         3.35          0.00         3.35
Incremental Operating Costs and Salaries                 11.88          0.00        11.88
Unallocated                                                             1.26         1.26
Total Project Costs    69.26         21.74        91.00
Front-end fee                   0.00         0.00
Total Financing Required    69.26         21.74        91.00
Identifiable taxes and dutics are 16.88 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 74 12 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is
80.95% of total project cost net of taxes.
- 73 -






Annex 4
ROMANIA: Rural Education Project
Economic and Financial Analysis
Introduction
The overall objective of the project is to make rural school students benefit from improved access to
quality education, as evidenced by higher achievement scores and completion and transition rates. The
objective of the project has, therefore, an equity dimension. It is not appropriate to estimate an economic
return for the project because the project's objective is equity promotion rather than income
enhancement, although some rural beneficiaries are expected to eam higher incomes as a result of the
project interventions. The Bank's Operational Policies OP 10.04, paragraph 5 states that "If the project is
expected to generate benefits that cannot be measured in monetary terms, the analysis a) clearly defines
and justifies the project objectives, reviewing broader sectoral or economy wide programs to ensure that
the objectives have been appropriately chosen, and b) shows that the project represents the least-cost
way of attaining the stated objectives". Indeed, even if the objective of the project were income
enhancement, it would be of dubious significance to estimate a rate of return to the project investments
because the techniques for estimating the income effects of improved education quality are not well
developed.
The main outcomes, which are expected from the project, are non-monetary, involving improved access
to quality education in rural areas. As indicated in the proposed monitoring and evaluation plan (Annex
I), these development outcomes are to be measured through performance indicators such as improved
rural school completion rates, improved rural teacher qualifications, and improved assessment results of
learning achievement be rural students.
For these reasons, the economic analysis presented in this Annex focuses on: a) justifying the project
objective within the agreed CAS, and b) demonstrating that the proposed project design represents the
least-cost approach for achieving the stated objectives. It does not attempt to estimate an economic rate
of return for the project investments.
Justification of Project Objective and Approach
Substandard conditions in rural primary schools in Romania create health risks, contribute to problems of
incomplete school attendance and degrade teaching effectiveness and learning achievement. They also
contribute to low motivation on the part of students and teachers. The MER recently carried out a census
of rural primary schools Rural Education in Roman ia, Conditions, Challenges, and Strategies of
Development, Ministry of Education and Research, Institute for Educational Sciences, Bucharest, 2000,
which documents the substandard conditions in rural basic education schools. The report includes an
analysis of the causes of non-attendance and low performance in rural basic education schools, based on
three sources: a 2001 beneficiary assessment, including focus-group discussions with school principals
and parents, multivariate regression analysis of the results of the 1996 and 1998 Integrated Household
Surveys, and multivariate regression analysis of the results of the 1997, 1998, and 1999 capacitate (grade
8) examinations. Among the many findings of this analysis are that rural schools with higher proportions
of unqualified teachers have lower student performance, and that schools in communities which
participated in various activities of the school have higher performance than schools which lack
community participation. Accordingly, the Project includes interventions to raise the qualifications of
teachers (Components 1.1 and 1.2) and to increase community participation in schools (Component 2).
- 74 -



These actions are expected to promote the project development objective of improved quality of rural
education, as gauged by improved student achievement scores and higher completion and transition rates.
The census of rural primary schools also documented the very poor physical condition and impovenshed
state of teaching and learning conditions in rural schools, including the following: 31% of kindergartens,
28% of grade 1-4 schools, and 17% of grade 1-8 schools lack any supply of water in the school. When
schools are equipped with a water supply, very rarely is it provided to toilet facilities. Most rural schools
have toilets or latrines of some kind, but only 5% have toilet facilities with running water. Since
September 2002, the new "Bread and Milk" program is providing free bread and milk to all students in
pre-primary and in the first four grades. Although this nutritional program is expected to lead to
improved attendance and attentiveness of students in poorer areas, the Government is, appropnately,
concerned that it could lead to health risks in schools with inadequate sanitary facilities. Although most
rural schools have heating facilities of some kind, most heating facilities in rural schools are inadequate,
leaving classrooms very cold in the winter, which adversely affects school attendance and the
effectiveness of teaching and learning. School furniture in 13% of rural schools is completely
unsatisfactory. Although most grade 1-4 schools operate with multi-grade teaching, almost none has
school furniture that permits students to work in clusters, as effective multi-grade teaching requires Only
5 % of rural schools lack electricity - typically, because they are in villages, which lack electricity. But
many rural schools have insufficient lighting for effective education during the winter months when
natural light is inadequate. Most rural schools, and especially the grade 14 schools, have virtually no
educational materials such as maps, dictionaries and other reference books, teachers' guides, reading
books, or science materials. The school improvements, which are being provided under Component 1.3
and the improved educational materials, which are being provided under Component 1. 1, are designed to
address these needs. In doing so, they are also expected to contribute to the project development
objective of improved quality of rural education, as gauged by improved student achievement scores and
higher completion and transition rates.
In addition to these specific findings on the needs of rural basic education in Romania, there are broader
reasons for the proposed project focus and approach. Quality education for all is a central thrust of the
Bank wide Education Sector Strategy, Education Sector Strategy, The World Bank, 1999. Inequitable
access to quality education is widely recognized as a threat to social cohesion and high productivity. A
recent OECD report cites the importance of early attention to access and equity problems in education as
a cost-effective means of avoiding greater expenditures later to deal with the social and economic
consequences of access gaps (Education Policy Analysis: Education and Skills, OECD, 2001).
The project is explicitly provided for in the agreed CAS. The current CAS (Memorandum of the
President of the International Bankfor Reconstruction and Development and the International Finance
Corporation to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for
Romania, World Bank Report No. 22180-RO, May 22, 2001) provides for the Rural Education Project
under both the high-case and low-case scenarios. The project is provided for as a targeted poverty
intervention: "The targeted poverty interventions would emphasize investments in the delivery of key
social and infrastructure services, especially in rural areas. This should address problems of inequitable
access to education and primary health care services, as well as other community services, across
regions and among the most vulnerable groups - children, women, and ethnic minorities. " (paragraph
58).
Least-Cost Approach for Attaining Improved Rural Access to Quality Education
To examine the cost of alternative designs, which would achieve the project objective, as well as the
-75 -



proposed design, we consider, first, that, given the deficiencies of the current system, any effective
approach to raising educational quality in rural schools would need to include major initiatives to provide
teacher training, educational matenals, and upgrading of school facilities, (which are to be provided
under Component I of the proposed project), strengthened community participation in schools (which is
to be supported under Component 2), and strengthened management capacity (which is to be supported
under Component 4). The monitoring, evaluation, and improved policy-making capacity activities
(Component 3) are indispensable in order to judge the development effectiveness of the project. The
School -Community Partnerships activity (Component 2) is included because school-community
partnerships have been found in other settings to be a cost-effective approach for raising educational
quality and school perfornance - especially in rural settings.
The main alternative approaches that were considered for providing equal opportunities to rural students
to assess quality education were: a) bussing children from rural areas to improved, central schools, and b)
reliance on distance education to reach rural schools. Detailed estimates, which are available in the
Project file, confirmed that the costs of these alternatives significantly exceed the cost of the proposed
project design or may not be achievable in the present context of Romania.
Financial Analysis
The project is expected to affect education expenditures of three kinds: a) state budget recurrent and
investment expenditures; b) local budget investment and recurrent expenditures; and c) household
expenditures. The project activities are expected to lead to a modest increase in state budget
requirements, a net decrease in local government expenditures for education, and a decrease in household
expenditures for education. The project is estimated to generate incremental investment and recurrent
costs to the state budget of less than 3% of current state budget expenditures for education. This modest
increment to state budget expenditures on education is expected to be sustainable. This amount is well
within the recommended increase in budget financing proposed in the recent Romania Education Policy
Note, World Bank Report No. 24353-RO, October 1, 2002 and in the Programmatic Adjustment Loan,
which is currently in preparation.
The Project is expected to affect aggregate expenditures for education as follows:
*      State budget, investment. As shown in Annex V, the direct costs of the project are estimated at
a total of $90 million over the initial six years of implementation, or an average of $15 million per year
over that period. Project expenditures are expected to be heaviest during the initial years of the project,
with maximum expenditures of $22.6 million projected dunng the third year of implementation This
maximum projected annual increment to education expenditures is less than 3 % of total education
expenditures under the state budget (which were 20,173 billion lei, or $929 million in 2000.)
*      State budget, recurrent. The only significant impact of the Project on state budget recurrent
expenditures is expected to occur through the higher salaries which will be paid to teachers who become
filly qualified under component 1.2 of the project. Qualified teachers currently earn 2,928,000 lei, or
$86.84 per month. Unqualified teachers earn 2,338,000 lei, or $69.35 per month. A total of 4,000
teachers are projected to be qualified under Component 1.2. Multiplied by the $209.88 annual salary
increment for qualified teachers, this implies total incremental salary costs of $839,520 per year for
teacher upgrading at project completion. (Teachers' social benefits and location premia are not affected
by upgrading qualifications). This increment amounts to less than one-eighth of one percent of total state
budget outlays for teacher salaries (which amounted to 14,504 billion lei, or $668 mllion in 2000).
- 76 -



o      Local expenditures on education. Teacher salaries and special educational initiatives of the
central government are financed from the state budget, but local govemments are legally responsible for
construction, operation and maintenance of primary and secondary schools. Local government outlays on
education totaled 2,578 billion lei, or $118 million in 2000. The project will affect local govemment
expenditures in several ways. First, the school rehabilitation, which will be carried out under Component
1.3, will, in most cases, reduce local expenditures on school maintenance by substituting
lower-maintenance materials for more maintenance-intensive matenals. School rehabilitation in many
cases is expected to lead to lower fuel costs through improved thermal insulation of schools. In some
cases, school rehabilitation may lead to modestly higher electricity charges as the illumination of
classrooms is improved, and higher fuel costs as functioning stoves or heating plants replace inoperative
units. Provision of water to schools, which currently lack water supply, will lead to a modest increase in
local water and/or electricity charges for the localities in which these schools are located. On balance, the
increases in local expenditures for school operations and maintenance occasioned by the rehabilitation
investments under Component 1.3 are expected to be roughly offset by reduced outlays for maintenance
and fuel. Local govemments will also be responsible for the operations and maintenance costs of the 41
mobile resource centers, which are to be provided under Component 1.1 of the Project. These costs,
estimated at $3,000 per year per unit, are expected to be well within the budgetary capacity of the
counties, which will be responsible for their operation. In some cases, local governments may contribute
financially to the 10% beneficiaries' contribution to school- community grants (averaging $4,000), which
are to be carried out under Component 2. This contribution is not expected to be burdensome for local
governments because the bulk of local contributions are expected to be in the form of locally provided
labor. But these combined recurrent-budget effects of the project (which are expected to lead to a modest
net increase in recurrent outlays of local governments for education) are expected to be more than offset
in the aggregate by the investment-budget savings to poor communities.
o      Household expenditures on education. The Project interventions are expected to reduce
educational outlays of poor rural households by providing under the project educational inputs such as
educational materials that would otherwise be provided by households, or would not be provided at all.
This reduction of the private costs of education to poor, rural households is expected to contribute to the
equity objective of the project by lowering the economic barrier to school attendance in rural areas.
Household contributions to the school- community grants under Component 2 are expected to be almost
exclusively in the form of labor contributions by parents. This increased parental involvement is itself
expected to yield monitorable benefits in the form of school attendance, school completion, and student
achievement.
- 77 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ROMANIA: Rural Education Project
Years Ending
June 30
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD,.-
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3  | Year 4     Year 5     Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            5 1       11.8       19.1      22.7       13.3        7.2
Recurrent Costs             1.2        1.7        2.3        2.4       2.4        1.9
Total Project Costs           6.3       13.5       21 4      25.1       15.7        9.1       0.0
Front-end fee     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               6.3       13.5       21.4      25.1       15.7        9.1       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   4.0        8.8       14.5       17.6       9.8        5.3       0.0
Government                 2.3        4.6        6.7        7.2        5.6       3 6        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers                                                                    0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries       0.0        0.1       0.2        0.3        0.3       0.2        0.0
Other                         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      6.3       13.5       21.4      25.1       15.7       9.1        0.0
Main assumptions:
The project is expected to affect education expenditures of three kinds: a) state budget recurrent and
investment expenditures, b) local budget investment and recurrent expenditures, and c) household
expenditures. The project activities are expected to lead to an increase state and local budget
requirements, and a decrease in household expenditures for education. The amounts of projected
increase in state and local budget requirements are modest in relation to current expenditures in the
sector, and are well within the recommended increase in budget financing recommended in the recent
Education Policy Note. Romania Education Policy Note, World Bank Report No. 24353-RO, October 1,
2002. They are therefore considered sustainable. The expected decline in household budget outlays
would contribute to the equity objective of the project by lowering the economic barrier to school
attendance in rural areas. The estimates of financial impacts of the project will be refined at appraisal,
and the detailed results presented in the final documentation for the project.
- 78 -






Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
ROMANIA: Rural Education Project
Procurement
General
6.1. Procurement of all works, goods and technical service under the project will follow the
Procurement Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January
1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Procurement of
consulting services under the project will follow the Consultants Guidelines "Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997, revised in
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002. The procedures outlined in these Guidelines apply
to all contracts financed in whole or in part from the Bank loan. Project activities not financed by
the Bank will be procured in accordance with procurement procedures agreed between the
respective financing organizations and the Government.
6.2. The project will be financed by a Bank Loan of US$60.0 million equivalent, a Government
counterpart of US$30.0 million equivalent and Beneficianes contributions of US$1 million
equivalent. The aggregate cost of the investment, counterpart funds and Beneficiaries
contribution is US$91.0 million equivalent.
Notification ofBusiness Opportunities
6.3. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be published in the UN "Development
Business" around the period of Loan Negotiations and would be annually updated. For ICB
goods contracts and large-value consultants contracts (more than US$200,000), Specific
Procurement Notice would be advertised in the Development Business and national press, and in
the case of NCB, in a major local newspaper (in the national language).
Procurement Management
6.4. The MER will have overall responsibility for the project. The management of its
procurement activity will be carried out by two PMUs established within the Ministry. The PMU
that implemented the Reform of Higher Education and Research project, and is also in charge
with the project preparation under a PHRD Grant (TF026809) will be responsible for all
components except sub-component 1.3.
For the Sub-Component 1.3, which involves rehabilitation works for schools, coordination will
be done by the School Rehabilitation Project Management Unit that is also in charge with the
ongoing School Rehabilitation Project (further SR PMU).
The Grants program will be implemented at the local level through Community Participation in
Procurement, however overall responsibility for supervision and procurement Management will
remain with the PMU.
The procurement arrangements under the project are primarily based on the Bank appraisal of the
existing procurement management capacity of these two Agencies.
The Capacity Assessment is shown in Table B to this Annex and the action plan to increase
- 79 -



capacity is shown in paragraph 6.9.
Procurement Scope and Procedures Arrangements
6.5. The Project will finance the procurement of goods, works, consultant services, training
contracts and grants. The relevant procurement procedures are described in the succeeding
paragraphs. Table A summarizes the project costs by procurement arrangements. The
procurement plan is shown in Table B 1. A sunmmary assessment of procurement capacity of the
implementing agency is presented in Table B and the Bank's review process is shown in Table C.
For procurement financed by the Bank Loan, the Borrower shall use the Bank's latest Standard
Bidding Documents, Standard Form of Consultant Contracts and Request for Proposals (RFP),
and Standard Bid Evaluation Forms.
Procurement of Goods and Works
6.6. The following methods of procurement will be used:
International Competitive Bidding (l[CB). Goods contracts estimated at more than
US$ 1,000,000 equivalent per contract, will be procured using International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank Procurement Guidelines. Bid
documents for ICB will be prepared in accordance with the Bank Standard Bidding
Documents (SBD) for Procurement of Goods.
International Shopping (IS) and/or National Shopping (NS). IS procedures will be
used for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract. NS procedures will be used for the purchase of goods estimated to cost per
contract less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract. IS/NS procedures applied would
be consistent with the provisions of the Bank Procurement Guidelines. The Bank's ECA
Regional sample format for International Shopping "Invitation to Quote" available on the
ECA Procurement Web Site will be applied. The IS format will be modified for use in
National Shopping.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). This procedure would be used for contracts up
to US$ 1,000,000 for procurement of civil works such as rehabilitation of lavatories and
the water, heating and electrical utilities, as well as for procurement of goods below
US$250,000, such as furniture and teaching materials etc.
Small Works (SW). Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract
may be procured under lump sum, fixed- price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to the Bank and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Direct Contracting. For procurement of reading materials under component 1.4, the
direct contracting may be used provided there would be no opportunity for the
competitive selection at the time when the packages are prepared. This will be used for
- 80 -



buying training materials for individual schools available of the shelf of proprietary
nature based on the catalogue prepared by MER. A detailed description of the procedure
to be followed is in Annex 2 and will also be clarified in the project Operational Manual.
Procurement of Consulting Services and Training
6.7. Contracts for consultant services and training to be executed by the PMUs as shown in Table
B I will be packaged in a manner that will combine related skills and services.
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). QCBS procedures would be used for all
consultant services with firms with the exception of those cases when other procedures
are justified.
Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures would be used for auditing services contracts,
preparation of surveys, analyses, assessments, and for the engineering design of
non-complex.
Consultant Qualification (CQ) procedures would be used for contracting specialized
firms for contracts, largely devoted to local training contracts, beneficiary assessments
with individual contract value below US$100,000.
Individual Consultants (IC) would be hired in accordance with Section V of the
Consultant Guidelines. Individual consultants would be used for small assignments of
short-term duration such as evaluation, analyses, and other activities under
sub-component 1.3 and monitonng and evaluations for the project management.
Open Distance Learning Modules under sub-component 1.2 for which no suitable
altematives for private sector consultants are available due to requirements of language
and knowledge of local standards, and the participation of local government owned
universities is critical to the objective of the project, it is proposed to select a group of
the university professors which will be responsible for the development of curriculum
framework for training of primary unqualified and secondary education unqualified
teachers.
Community Participation in Procurement as described in paragraph 3.15 of the
Guidelines will be used for Component 2, Improve School- Community Partnership.
Under this component demand driven grants will be financed. The average grant value
will be approximately US$ 4,000 with a ceiling of US$ 7,000. The total value of the
grants is US$ 10 million. The purpose of these grants is to support local initiatives of
teachers, students, parents and other members of community. Procedures for selection of
grantees will be developed by PMU by Board and descnbed in details in the project
Operational Manual, including procurement methods to be followed during disbursement
of grants.
Training. The institutions that will conduct trainings and will organize seminars under
components 1, 3 and 4 will be selected on the basis of availability of services, period of
training and reasonableness of the cost.
6 8. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
- 81 -



Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of goods and services for the project would be
carned out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan (Table D), which would be updated
annually, included in the progress report, and reviewed by the Bank.
(i) Prior Review:
Works and Goods. Prior review of bidding documents, including review of evaluation,
recommendation of award and contract would be conducted for all ICB. The first two IS, NS and
NCB contracts would require prior review. All direct contracts would be subject to prior review.
Consulting Services and Training. Terms of Reference for all consulting assignments would be
subject to prior Bank review. Requests for Proposal (RFP), short lists, terms of condition of
contracts, as well as evaluation reports and recommendation for award would be prior reviewed
by the Bank for contracts for individual consultants above US$50,000 and firms above
US$ 100,000. All documents and recommendations involving sole source contracting would be
subject to Bank prior review.
Following the award of procurement contracts, the Bank reserves the right to conduct Prior
Review of any matenal modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a contract which
would result in a significant change in the scope of the contract (Terms of Reference in the case
of consultant services) and/or increase or decrease of more than fifteen percent of original
contract amount.
(ii) Grants
For School Community Grants (SCG) under project component 2, the first two contracts under
sub-projects and contracts for sub-projects estimated to cost more than US$50,000, will be
subject to prior review by the Bank.
The PMU shall submit for the Bank's approval the first two Grant Agreements for each category
of sub-projects prior to signing the Grant Agreement. The documents submitted for Bank prior
review will include, inter alia, a description of the scope and terms of the competition for Grants,
the evaluation report, and the draft Grant Agreement.
(iii) Post Review
Those contracts below the Bank's prior review threshold are subject to the Bank's ex-post
review. Periodic ex-post review by the Bank of not less than 1 in 5 procurement contracts will be
undertaken during regular supervision mussions.
6.9. Action Plan for Strengthening Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement
The following action plan is recommended to strengthen the procurement administration capacity
of the PMUs:
(i) Initiating a Project Launch Workshop immediately after the loan effectiveness, as part
of the project implementation/capacity building initiatives, especially in procurement. As part of
the Project Launch Workshop, it would be beneficial for the stakeholders who are directly
involved in the project, if a 2-3 day workshop is carried out on the different phases of goods and
- 82 -



works procurement process, as well as selection of consultants.
(ii) In order to build-in and maintain strong management capacity. it is recommended that
Procurement Specialists undergo appropriate training in procurement of civil works and goods,
as well as selection of consultants. It is recommended that they attend training on intemational
procurement management organized by ILO in Turin, or by other relevant training center, to be
financed by the loan. The procurement training for other staff in the PMUs shall be provided at
the workshop to be run by the country office in FY2003.
(iii) Supervision of the procurement activities in the project by the Bank every 6 months.
iv) Periodic ex-post review by the Bank of I in 5 contracts during the supervision
missions.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
-ii..,...      -    -    .     . :-    .    . Procureement Method          - -         .  -5 -.:
-,Expenditure Category -, -        ICB            - NCB.        --Other  .    N.B.F .. -Total C;ost
1. Works                            0.00            26.70         0.00          0.00       26.70
(0.00)          (21.36)       (0.00)        (0.00)     (21.36)
2. Goods                            18.94            5.25          6.36         0.00       30.55
(15.15)          (4.20)       (5.09)        (0.00)     (24.44)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00          7.17         2.44        9.61
(0.00)          (0.00)        (5.44)       (0.00)      (5.44)
4. Grants                           0.00             0.00         10.00         1.00        11.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (7.50)       (0.00)      (7.50)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00             0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Recurrent and Operational                                                    11.88       11.88
Costs                                ()               )             C            0         (0.00)
Total                            18.94           31.95         23.53         15.32       89.74
___________________________        (15.15)         (25.56)       (18.03)       (0.00)     (58.74)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
7' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through small works, national shopping. consulting services, services
of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremenital
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (n) re-lending project funds to local educational units.
Government is financing the Front-end fee up front
Toial amounts are less than the total project cost and total loan amount, clue to the unallocated amount of $1.26
million.
- 83 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                              .:Contracts Subject to
Tlhreshold             Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category          (US$)                  Method                  (U$$)
1. Works                   Below 1,000,000             NCB                First two contracts
Below 100,000            Small works
2. Goods                   Above 250,000                ICB                 All contracts
Below 250,000               NCB               First two contracts
Below 100,000                IS               First two contracts
Below 50,000                NS                First two contracts
Direct Contracting        All contracts
3. Services                Above 100,000                Firm                All contracts
Above 50,000                 IC                 All contracts
4. Grants                                          CP, as per OM       The first two contracts for
each procurement
category, regardless of the
value of the contract and
all contracts over 50,000
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$20 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
- 84 -



Table C: Summary of Procurement Activities
ICB           NCB              is            NS       DC              Other Methods   % of Loan
(CPP/SW)    Subject to Prior
Review
Goods
Procurement    Above 250,000  Below $250,000 Below $100,000 Below 50,000   N/A            N/A
hresholds
Works          Above          Below          N/A            Below $50,000  N/A             elow $100,000
Procurement    $1,000,000     $1,000,000
thresholds
Pnor Review    All packages   First 2 contracts First 2 contracts First 2 contracts All contracts  The first two  33%
regardless the  ontracts for each
value           rocurement
ategory
regardless of the
alue of the
ontract and all
ontracts over
50,000
QCBS         Consultant     Least Cost      Agreed     Individual       Single Source
(firms)     Qualifications               Procedure (AP) Consultants
(Training)
Consultants    N/A            Below $100,000 Below $100,000 N/A            N/A            N/A
Pnor Review    Shortlist, TORs, Shortlist, TORs Shortlist, TORs, Requests  Shortlist, TORs, Shortlist, TORs,
evaluation reports            evaluation repots including   evaluation reports evaluation reports
nd draftl                                   availability of  and draft     nd draft
contracts for all                            services, penod  ontracts for  ontracts for all
contracts                                    of training and  ontracts above  ontracts
reasonableness o  50,000
cost
Thresholds generally differ by country and project Consult "Assessment of Agency's CapacIty to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 85 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
ROMAINIA: Rural Education Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Countiy Issues
The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Romania has just started with the
initial mission carried out in February 2003. When finalized, the document will detail the issues on tfie
financial management risks for the country and the implications for the World Bank operations.
The interim CFAA work confirms that a certain improvement is required in the management of public
expenditures, including the budget process and budget execution, as well as cash and debt management.
The PMUs have developed policies and procedures that operate in addition to those of the current public
expenditure management framework to minimize project financial management risks. The Bank
conducted yearly a Country Project Portfolio Review (CPPR) of all projects under implementation in
Romania and identified some common financial management issues; the Bank confirmed that all such
issues have been appropriately addressed in the design of project's financial management arrangements.
The banking sector in Romania has strengthened in the past few years, with the liquidity and credit risks
reduced to moderate levels. Both the PMU and SR PMU have been operating satisfactorily theirs
Projects SAs in commercial banks acceptable to the Bank that have their financial status and statements
reviewed on an ongoing basis by the Bank. As these arrangements have been satisfactory, they will
remain in place during the Rural Education Project implementation.
Strengths and weaknesses
The significant strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the project financial management system
include: (i) the experience of the PMU and SR PMU and their staff in implementing Bank-financed
projects and satisfying Bank financial management requirements; and (ii) the unqualified audit reports
and positive management letters issued by the PMU and the SR PMU project auditors.
There are no significant weaknesses of the project financial management system.
Implementing Entities
Both (PMU and SR PMU) implementing entities are established within MER as departments, with no
legal status of their own and reporting to the Minister of Education and Research. The main PMU, that
was responsible for the successful implementation of the Bank Higher Education Project (closed on 30
September 2002) and execution of the preparatory grant, will be overall in charge with all project
financial management aspects.
In respect of component 1.3, the SR PMU established also within the MER, and currently in charge with
the School Rehabilitation Project (with a closing date of 31 January 2004) will be responsible for the day
to day implementation of activities under subcomponent 1.3 and will report monthly to the PMU. The SR
PMU has gained extensive experience in the school rehabilitation activities under the successful School
Rehabilitation Project.
- 86 -



The PMUs will draw to the extent needed upon the experience and expertise of the MER staff (a number
of technical experts will provide technical assistance in developing the technical specifications). In each
county, there will be CPIUs (County PIUs) established within the local MER Inspectorates, as local level
"extensions" of the main PMU.
Flow of Funds
Project funds will flow from (i) the Bank, either through the two SAs which will be replenished on the
basis of SOEs or by direct payment on the basis of direct payment withdrawal applications; or (ih) the
Government, via the Treasury on the basis of payment requests prepared by the PMUs.
The Loan Agreement will be signed between the World Bank (IBRD) and the Borrower, through the
MPF. The MPF will authorize the MER, through the PMUs to handle the loan amounts. The PMU and
the SR PMU will have their own SAs, the PMU for all project activities except component 1.3 and the
SR PMU for activities within component 1.3 only. The SAs are to be opened at a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. The PMU will receive monthly reports from the SR PMU in view of
consolidating the Project Financial Statements.
Counterpart contributions payments will be made from separate Treasury project sub-accounts of the
main MER budgetary account that will just be used specifically for the Romanian contributions to the
project. These contributions will be received monthly, directly through the MER budget, as part of the
statutory budgetary system.
The PMUs will have full rights to operate both the special and the project accounts. All documentation
pertaining to the project (relating to Loan funds, to the local contributions and other donors as
applicable) will be kept at the PMUs.
In respect of the SCG established under component 2 of the Project, the CPIUs will be involved in the
collection and analysis of the grant financing requests, based on a codified matrix, so that no CPIUs
evaluates the financing requests from its home county, to avoid any conflict of interest. Once the schools
are selected and endorsed by the PMU and MER, a financing agreement is signed between the schools
and the PMU. The draft format of the financing agreement and its contents is included in the Financial
and Administration Manual. The agreement confirms the responsibility of the grant recipient to maintain
appropriate books and records in respect of grant expenditures and gives the PMU or anyone authorized
by the PMU (e.g. auditor) full access to these books and records for inspection.
After the grants are awarded to the schools, the CPIUs will ensure the day-to-day supervision of the
activities by grant beneficiaries and will monitor and analyze the results of the implementation and
prepare reports that will be submitted to the PMU in view of the use of funds by each school per tranche,
mentioning whether the sub-project milestones have been met, thus justifying the release of the next
tranche of the grant.
The procedures for the SCG adopted by the Project are based on the Bank ECSSD booklet "Good
Practices in Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management for SCG in ECA, February 2002".
The PMU adopted a tranche based procedure, so that for the typical grant, amounting to an average of $
4,000 (out of which the Bank will finance 75% and the Government 25%), there will be 3 stages: 30%,
60% and 10%, triggered by the achievement of various implementation milestones. For very small
grants, of less than $ 1,000, the PMU agreed on a simplified 2 stages model with 90% and 10% tranches,
in line with the Bank guidelines. The SA 90 days advance procedure was adopted, whereby each tranche
is advanced for a maximum period of 90 days, after which the grant recipient must either produce
- 87 -



evidence of a completed stage of the tranche or return the funds.
Staff ing
The PMUs are fully staffed according to their organizational charts and it is deemed that there Is
sufficient staff capacity to handle the financial management aspects of the project, as for each PMU there
is a director, a finance manager, and a number of accountants, economists and procurement specialists
and decentralized staff at county level.
The PMUs have allocated the tasks related to the new project and prepared a complete outline of
responsibilities for all staff that is included in the Project Financial Management Manual. In addition to
the PMUs teams, other experts from the MER will get involved in various implementation areas, when
required.
The PMUs accountants handle all financial accounting records, ensure that accounting records are kept
up to date within the accounting software and in charge of payments. PMUs economists are mainly in
charge with financial analysis, follow up on the contracts execution and planning and budgeting. The
PMUs finance managers supervise the accountants and are overall responsible for the planning,
budgetmg, auditing and reporting aspects, reporting to the PMiU directors.
The PMUs have good experience of implementing Bank-financed projects and have demonstrated their
capabilities of fulfilling the financial management needs of the project.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The accounting books and records are maintained on a cash basis and project financial statements are
presented in Romanian Lei in accordance with the statutory requirements, reporting to the Bank and to
the Government. The PMUs have instituted a set of appropriate accounting procedures and internal
controls including authonzation and segregation of duties, documented in the Project Financial
Management Manual.
The PMUs will maintain all documentation related to project expenditures and will keep financial
records in accordance with sound accounting practices. The PMUs are responsible for keeping the full
accounting records of the Project, in charge of all payments, operating the accounting software, handling
the SAs and the other Project Accounts, filling documents on a timely basis and organized in a manner to
ensure the full audit trail with the accounting software records.
Reporting and Monitoring
The PMUs have developed detailed financial statements and reporting formats. Detailed accounts will be
kept for each project component and its sub-components. The accounts also reflect: the status of payment
against each contract; utilization of the Special Accounts and replenishments made by the Bank,
utilization of the Govemment contribution and uses of the funds.
The PMUs will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of funds by
source, summary of withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress achieved to date and the objectives
for the forthcoming quarter and semester. The main PMU will include data received from the SR PMU
and will submit the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to the Bank starting with the penod
in which disbursements commence, most likely the quarter ending September 30, 2003 and quarterly
(calendar quarters) thereafter, no later than 45 days after the relevant quarter's end. The budgeting and
- 88 -



financial forecasting are an integral part in the process of prepanng the FMRs. These activities will
involve the PMUs director, the finance managers, the accountants and the procurement specialists.
The PMU has designed appropriate FMRs, as follows
*   Project Sources and Uses of Funds
*   Uses of Funds by Project Activity
* Special Accounts Statements Plus Local Bank Accounts Statements
* Physical Progress Reports
* Procurement Monitoring Reports
The format of the FMRs is documented in the project Financial Management and Administration
Manual.
Information Systems
The Bank agreed with the PMUs that their existing project financial management and accounting
software systems be also used for the new Project, to allow the PMUs to use their existing expenence
and capacity. The existing software systems were customized to fully respond to the specifics of the
project. The systems feature customized charts of accounts, detailed financial statements, reporting
formats and methods, etc. The systems produce reports for expenditures by project components,
sub-components and activities, by categories and procurement methods.
The accountants, procurement specialists and finance managers are the primary operators of the software,
with the PMU directors responsible for authorizing all payments. The procurement specialists have
limited nghts to access the software on procurement related aspects.
Financial Management Action Plan
There are no remaining financial management actions.
Supervision Plan
During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial management arrangements
in two main ways (i) review the project's quarterly financial management reports as well as the project's
annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii) during the Bank's
supervision missions, review the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements
(including a review of a sample of SOEs and movements on the Special Accounts) to ensure compliance
with the Bank's minimum requirements. As required, a Bank-accredited Financial Management Specialist
will assist in the supervision process.
2. Audit Arrangements
a. Internal Audit
The PMUs have no internal audit function and none is considered necessary given the size of the
organizations
h. External Audit
No significant issues have arisen in the audit of the Bank-financed projects implemented by the PMU and
- 89 -



the SR PMU. The audit opinions were unqualified and no significant internal control issues were
mentioned in the management letters for both PMUs.
The PMU's previous and current auditing arrangements and findings of the audits are satisfactory to the
Bank and it has thus been agreed that similar audit arrangements will be adopted for the Rural Education
Project, to include the Project financial statements, SOEs and Special Account. The audit terms of
reference were updated to cater for the Rural Education Project, starting with CY2003. The Project will
require that in addition to the standard Bank Project and PMU audit terms of reference, the auditors will
have to audit the sub-component 1.3 implemented by SR PMU and to audit the CGS under component 2,
including the audit of a representative sample of CPIUs and recipient schools countrywide.
Independent private auditors, acceptable to the Bank, will conduct the audit of the project, on terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, and procured by the PMU through the Least-Cost Selection
procurement method. The annual audited project financial statements will be provided to the Bank within
six months of the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The contract for the audit
awarded during the first year of project implementation and thereafter may be extended from year-to-year
with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost of the audit will be financed from the
proceeds of the loan.
The following chart identifies the audit reports that will be required to be submitted by the project
implementation agency together with the due date for submission.
Audit Reports                            Due Date
Entity                                   N/A
Project, SOE and Special Accounts       Within six months of the end of each fiscal year
and also at the closing of the project
In addition, the Romanian Court of Accounts, the country's supreme audit institution, performs ad hoc
external audits of the PMUs and the projects under their implementation.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
IBRD funds will be disbursed under the Bank's traditional procedures including SOEs and direct
payments. Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and certificates, will be
retained by the Borrower and made available to IBRD during project supervision. Disbursements for
expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be made against presentation of full documentation relating
to those expenditures. There is no plan to move to periodic disbursements.
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would establish two Special
Accounts. The Special Account A will be operated by the PMU and the Special Account B will be
operated by the SR PMU, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocations
for the Special Accounts will be: (i) for the Special Account A- US$3.5 million; and (ii) for the Special
Account B- US$2.5 million. Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly and will be fully
documented, including bank statement and reconciliation statement, except for expenditures, which may
be claimed on the basis of the Statement of Expenditures. Independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
would audit Special Accounts annually.
Table C shows the allocation of Loan proceeds for civil works, goods and consulting services.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
- 90 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
, :   ,Expenditure'Category       Amount in US$milli6n.     -,Financing Percentage
Goods, Equipment and Matenals            24.44          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Works                                     21.36         100% offoreign expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
Training                                  1.01          100% of foreign expenditures and 75%
of local expenditures
Consultant Services including audit       4.43          75% of expenditures incurred by local
services                                                 consultants and 84% of expenditures
incurred by foreign consultants
Grants                                    7.50                        75%
Unallocated                               1.26
Total Project Costs                       60.00
Front-end fee                        Paid by Borrower (not capitalized)
Total                                     60.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawal applications would be fully documented. The reimbursement of expenditures made from the
Special Accounts may be made on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), for the
following items:
(i) Goods:                       contracts amounting to less than US$100,000 equivalent each;
(ii) Works:                      contracts amounting to less than US$100,000 equivalent each;
(iii) Consulting firms:          contracts amounting to less than US$100,000 equivalent each;
and
(iv) Consulting services-individuals:  contracts amounting to less than US$ 50,000 equivalent each.
Expenditures above these thresholds will be fully documented.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Govemment would establish two Special
Accounts. The Special Account A will be operated by the PMU and the Special Account B will be
operated by the SR PMU, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocations
for the Special Accounts will be : (i) for the Special Account A- US$3.5 million; and (ii) for the Special
Account B- US$2.5 million. Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly and will be fully
documented, including bank statement and reconciliation statement, except for expenditures which may
be claimed on the basis of the Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). The Special Accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
- 91 -






Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ROMANIA: Rural Education Project
roect Schedule .           .' 2*.               -Paned         -v.-.     .'Actual,-
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      10
First Bank mission (identification)             04/12/2002                   04/12/2002
Appraisal mission departure                     12/09/2002                    12/09/2002
Negotiations                                    03/10/2003                   03/18/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/15/2003
Prepared by:
The Ministry of Education and Research, Project Preparation Unit
Preparation assistance:
A Japan PHRD Grant (TF026809) in the amount of US$462,540 was received and used for project
preparation by the recipient to contract consulting services for the following preparation activities: (i)
identification of obstacles to school attendance and satisfactory education achievements in rural areas,
policies and programs development; (ii) policies and programs feasibility studies; (iii) identification of
approaches for strengthening community-school linkages; (iv) capacity building for project implementation,
including the preparation of the Project Implementation Plan.
The grant was successfully executed by MER. The planned outputs were completed and consultant
performance was satisfactory, with significant transfer of technical knowledge to the client. Both the client
and stakeholders benefited from consultative workshops and gained experience in program management,
financial management, and procurement.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
-  Name --i                    -.pcaiy:             - .           Z:-     ...........Speciality.. : *,.f  -  -
Ana Maria Sandi                    Program Team Leader, Task Team Leader (ECSHD)
Mariana Doina Moarcas              Operations Analyst (ECSHD)
Juan Prawda                       Lead Education Specialist, (LCSHE)
Michael Mertaugh                  Lead Education Economist (ECSHD)
James Socknat                     Education Specialist, QER, Panel Chair (Consultant)
Joel E. Reyes                     Sr. Institutional Development Specialist QER Panel member (LCSHE)
Helen Craig                       Education Specialist, QER Panel member (Consultant)
Vladislav Krasikov                Sr. Procurement Specialist (ECSPS)
Edward Heneveld                   Education Specialist (Consultant)
Bogdan Constantinescu             Financial Management Specialist (ECSPS)
Raluca Marina Banioti             Program Assistant (ECCRO)
Jennifer Manghinang               Program Assistant (ECSHD)
Nicholay Chistyakov               Sr. Finance Officer (LOAG 1)
Irma Kichigina                    Sr. Counsel (LEGEC)
Samuel McClelland                 Education Specialist (Consultant)
Rita Cestti                        Sr. Water Resources Economist (ECSSD)
- 92 -






Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ROMANIA: Rural Education Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
Operational Manual
Environmental Management Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Romania Education Policy Note (Report No. 24353-RO), October 2002.
Education and the Learming Economy. Next Phase of the Education Reform in Romania, Yael Duthilleul,
2001.
Romania Education Reform Project Implementation Completion Report, August 2002.
Assessment of the Capacity of the Project Management Unit to Undertake Procurement Administration for
Romania Rural Education Project, Vladislav Krasikov, Antonia Viyachka, October 2002.
Suggestions for a Program to Improve Career Development Opportunities for Rural Teachers, Edward
Heneveld, September 2002.
School Based Professional Development, Samuel McClelland, September 2002.
Technical Description of School Community Grants, Juan Prawda, August 2002.
C. Other
Government of Romania, Rural Education Project, Environmental Management Plan and Environmental
Guidelines, Basic Education Conditions in Schools (Sub-component 1.3) and School Community Grant
Program (Component 2).
Rural Education in Romania. Conditions, Problems and Development Strategies, Ministry of Education and
Research, Institute of Education Sciences, 2002.
Romania Education Review Report, OECD, 1999.
Impact Study of the Rural Education Pilot, Education 2000+ Center, Bucharest, 2002.
"Professionalism in Teaching", Emil Paun, 2002, in Professional Teaching Standards, Lucia Gliga
coordinator, Ministry of Education and Research/National Board for Teacher Training, Bucharest, 2002.
The Current Status of Rural Education in Romania: Diagnosis and Priority Problems, Cezar Barzea,
2002.
Reform Measures From the Rural Education Perspective, Cezar Barzea, 2002.
Rehabilitation of Rural Education. A Social Perspective, Catalin Zamfir, 2002.
Rural Education in Romania's Social- Demographic Context, Ionica Berevoescu, 2002.
Romanian Rural Education. Institutional Development, Manuela Stanculescu, 2002.
Romania Rural Education Project. Obstacles Identification, Policies and Programs Development, Jeanne
Moulton, 2002.
Romanian Rural Education Project Policies and Programs Feasibility, Jeanne Moulton, 2002.
Technologies for Education in Rural Areas. The Status Quo, Alexander Romiszowski, 2002.
The Financial Feasibility of the Proposed Rural Education Project, Frederick Golladay, 2002.
Romania Rural Education. The Feasibility and Cost of Using Various Instructional Technologies (Radio,
Television, Computers, Internet), Radu Jugureanu, 2002.
Rural Education in Romania. Replicable Models of NGO Projects/Initiatives. Identifying Problems and
Solutions, Alexandru Crisan, 2002.
- 93 -



Rural Education in Romania. Recommendations for Possible Intervention of the World Bank. Strategic
Courses of Action, Alexandru Crisan, 2002.
Romania Rural Education Project. Institutional Development: Educational Policies in Rural Areas, Yves
Alpe, 2002.
School - Community Partnerships, Cristina Vladu, 2002.
Participation Plan, Cristina Vladu, Yves Alpe, 2003.
Institutional Assessment, Gabriel Ivan, 2002.
*Including electronic files
- 94 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ROMANIA: Rural Education Project
26-Mar-2003
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF    Cancel     Undisb      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P067367       2003 FOREST DEVT                                     25 00      0 00                 000       0 00     25 00      0 03      0 00
P067575       2003 PSAL2                                          300 00      0 00                 0 00      0 00    167 56      0 00      0 00
P06W62        2003 ENERGY EFF (GEF)                                 000       000                 1000       000       986       145       000
P069679       2003 PPIBL                                           18 60      0 00                 0 00      000      16 60      0 00      0 00
P057960       2002 RURAL DEV (APL #1)                              4000       000                  000       000      3959       009 o     000
P066065       2002 AG POLLUTION CONTROL (GEF)                       0 00      0 00                 515       0 00      4 97      0 64      0 00
P06S608       2002 SDF 2 (APL #2)                                  20 00      0 00                 0 00      0 00     19 50      -0 50     067
P056691       2001 RURAL FIN (APL #1)                              8 00       0 00                 0 00      0 00     79 60     10 27      0 00
P008783       2001 SOC SECT DEV (SSD)                              5 00       0 00                 0 00      0 00     49 70     21 36      0 00
P065041       2000 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                   1710       000                  000       0.00     1349       -361      000
P056337       2000 MINE CLOSURE                                    44 50      0 00                 0 00      0 00     36 86     33 50      0 00
P008797       2000 HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                            40 00      0 00                 0 00      0 00      9 03      3 10      0 00
P043H82       2000 AGRSUPPORTSERVS                                 11.00      000                  000       000       863       513       000
P039251       1999 PIBL                                            25 00      0 00                 0 00      1 10     1141       12 51     0 00
P058284       1999 CULTURAL HERITAGE                                5 00      0 00                 0 00      0 00      352       3 52      012
P044176       1999 BIODIVCONSVMGMT(GEF)                             000       000                  550       000       312       272       000
P008788       1998 TELECOMMUNICATION                               3000       000                  000       7.00     1103      1803       1090
P055495       1998 CHILD WELFARE REFORM                             5 00      0 00                 0 00      000       0 55      0 55      0 00
P034213       1998 GEN'L CADASTRE                                  2550       000                  000       000      2011      1878       529
P044614       1998 SCHOOLS REHABILITATION                          70 00      0 00                 0 00      0 00     12 93     12 93      -3.07
P039250       1997 SECONDROADS                                    15000       000                  000       000      1905      1335       000
P008794       1996 POWERSECTORREHAB                               11000       000                  000      3350      3181      6531       1671
P036013       1996 RAILWAY                                        12000       000                  000       000      1235      1235       224
P008776       1995 EMPLYMT & SOC PROTECTION (ESSP)                 55 40      0 00                 0 00      5 70     15 34     21 04      0 00
P008777       1994 PETROL SECT REHAB                              175 60      0 00                 0 00      0 00     22 96     22 96    -10149
Total     1417 70       0 00              20 65      47 30     646 77     275 51    -68 63
- 95 -



ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic
1999                Ambro                         4.76     0.00    0.00    0.00    4.76     0.00    0.00     0.00
1998/02             Banc Post                     0 00     0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    10.00    0.00
2001                Banca Romaneasca               5.92    0.00    0.00    0.00     5.92    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Bzlstein Compa                 I 27    000     0.00    1.27     1.27    0.00    0.00     1.27
1996                Danube Fund                   0.00     1 80    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.80    0.00     0.00
1998                Demur Romania                 2.14     0 00    0.00    0.00    2.14     0.00    Q.00     0.00
1997                Efes Brewery                  5.56     0.00    0.00    3.00     5.56    0.00    0.00     3.00
1998                Garanta                       0.00     0.60    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.30    0.00     0.00
2001                ICME                          14.89    0.00    0.00     0.00    5.96    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Krupp Compa                   4.10     0.00    0.00    1.76    4.10     0.00    0.00     1.76
2002                MFI MFB Romania               0 00     2.03    0.00    0.00     0.00    2.03     0.00    0.00
1997/00            Mobil Rom                       1.77    0.00    0.00    2.36     1.77    0.00    0.00     2.36
1997                Rambox                        1.05     0.00    2.00    0.00     1.05    0.00    2.00     0.00
1994/98/01          Romlease                      4.00     0 00    0.00    0.00     2.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:        45.46    4.43    12.00     8.39   34.53    4.13    12.00    8.39
Approvals Pending Commiitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001               Kronospan Rom                    30.20      0.00      0.00     45.73
Total Pending Commitment:        30.20      0.00      0.00    45.73
- 96 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ROMANIA: Rural Education Project
Europe &  , Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         . Central   middle-
Romania       Asia    Income      Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                       22.4       475      2,164                 Lde expectancy
GNI per capita (AUas mothod, US$)                    1,720      1,960     1,240
GNI (AUas method, US$ bIlionWs                        386 6    1936      2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Populaton (9)                                          -0.2      '0.1       1.0
Laborforce (%J                                         0          06        1       GNI                             Gross
Iper                            primary
Most recent estimate (Iltept year available, 1995-01)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population belownationalpoverty line)     30
Urban population (% oftotolpopulatIon)                  55        63        46
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70      :69         69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births),               19        20        33
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren undor 5)                  ,      .,        11     j     Access to lmproved water source
Accesstoanimprovedwatersource(%otpopulation)            58,       90 ?i -   80     1
Uliteracy (% ofpopulaton age 15+)                        2 "P        3'     15     I
Grossprimaryanrollment (%ofschool-gepopulatIon) ,      104,      192       107               Romania
Malo                                                 105       103       107              Lower-middle-Income grup
Ferhale                                              103       101       107     L  ,
KEY ECONQMIC RATIOS and LONG-TErRM TREND$S         .
1981     1991      2000      2001           t
-  5  *            Economic ratios
GDP (US$ bilions)                              2.       8   ;8    38.2  - 38.7
Gross domestic investmentVGDP,               3613 z   28.0 ,     197i      21.9
Exports of goods and services/GOP  I.                 17.6 -:   33.0   '.                          Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP `                      .   24.1       14.0      i3.8
Gross nationalsavings/GOP    -2-               , , .24.9                   15,9
Current account balance/GDP                             3.5     . -3 6     4 0      DomestIc                     nv,mn
Interest payments/GOP                                   01.4'              16 6netmn
Total debtUGDP                                         74        266       2        savings 
Total debt servicelexports                   15. 2     2.4       188       18.8
Present value of debt/GOP ..                                    26,2       28.7
Present value of deWbexports                                   ;!80.3      80.4
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01     2000      2001    2001-05
(average annual growth)       .
GPP                                 -01       04       18         5.3       48                Romanla
GDP per capta-                      -05       0.7      1.9        5 4       5.2               Lower-mddle-Income group
Exports of goods and services                -9.8'    241        16         84 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000       2001    | Growth of Invootmont and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          30
Agricuiture                                  16 4     183        12.5      150      3
Industry                                     56.6     45.1       34.1      34.6     15-
Manufactunng                                  .                                    o    = ._
Services                                     27 0     36.6       53.4      50 4                 1 96              00   01
Private consumption                          53.7     60.7      79.0       79.9    130
General government consumption               12 3     152        6 9        6 3              _     GDI        GDP
Imports of goods and services                         21.5      38 7      416
1981-91  19914-1      2000      2001     I Growth of oxports and Imports (%)
(average annual growfh)
Agriculture                                   2.1     -1.3      -18.2      21 2    30 T
Industry                                     -1.7     -01        6 2        7 4   120
Manufacturing                                 7                                   I
Services                                               07        3.7        17 7    0 
Pnvate consumpton                             1.1      2.4        0.1       6 5                                  o
General government consumption                1.1     -04        158       -1.9    1090
Gross domesfic Investment                             -3.2      20.5       18 5            -       Expors       tmports
Imports of goods and services                          9.1      28.1       17.5
Note 2001 dats are pretimnary esUmates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in boid) compared wth its income-group average If data are rrssing, the diamond will be Incoiplate
- 97 -



Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                             3 1    170.2      45 7     345      10 
Implicit GDP deflator                              195 0      44.1     37 0     100
Govemment finance                                                               50
(% of GDP, includes cun'ent grants)                                              o
Current revenue                                     38.9      31.2     30 5             t9   97    98    99    00   01
Current budget balance                               6.3      -0 7      0 0            -    GDP detlator  --C  i
Overall surplus/deficit                       *      0.3      4.0      -3 3
TRADE
{Uss mililons)  1981  1991  2000  2001  , Export and Import levels (USS mill)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                      11,180    4,266    10,367   11,385    j2000
Textiles                                           634      1,658    1,516
Metals                                      ..     621       822      784     15000
Manufactures                                ..   2,636     6,984     8,122                                      1 J
Total imports (cif)                            .   5,793    13,055   15,552     10, 0
Food                                               785       932     1.207     s
Fuel and energy                                  2.626      1,893    2,237
Capital goods                               ..     980     3,767     4,326       o
98  98   97   98   99   00  0
Export price index (1995=100)                 .      93        98        96
lmDortprlceindex(1995=100)                          101        91        88                CExports     Umompons
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                       ,,      92        108      110
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1981    1991      2000      2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                13,462    4.946    12,133   13,379      5
Imports of goods and services            13,278    6,191    14,071   16,557
Resource balance                            184   -1,245    -1,938    -3,178     2 
Net income                                -1,017      15      -281     -282     -4 -
Net current transfers                         0     218       860     1,143     -__
Financing items (net)                       596    1,199     2,285    3,801
Changes in net reserves                     238     -187      -926    -1,484     c
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       ..    1,010     3,396    4,880
Conversion rate (DEC, loc9llUS5)              .     764   20,954.1  29,808.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                  Composition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     10,447    2,135    10,177   11,124
IBRD                                    1,143       3      1,898    1,876                    G 58
IDA                                         0       0         0         05                            A1,876
Total debt service                        2,057      120     2,344    2,607
lBRD                                      108       0        195      204                                   C 387
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             0       0        36       103                                   D 1266
Official creditors                        319       3       510       111
Privatecreditors                          715     115       836       931        F 6,022                  E '  ,51
Foreign direct investment                   0      40      1,036    1,154
Portfolio equity                            0       0       102       790
World Bank program                                                             I
Commitments                               205     330        68       150     A- SBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             381       3       384       132    |- IDA     D- Other rnuiblateral  F- Pnvate
Principal repayments                       45       0        91       101     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                 336       3       293        31
Interest payments                          63       0       104       103
Net transfers                             273       3       189       -72
ueveiopment Economics                                             -r-u/Zn
- 98 -



MAP SECTION






22 \  24            26s /aX               28                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 2871 OR
w  ~       ~        ~       ~~~~~~~ K R A I  E             R O M A N I A
k -<;-tu_ X f g? ~~~T. K.1-yy.                                M  ELEVATIONS ABOVE 500 METERS
48                                                    \\>  >  rT  .> ,_.>>  _._ -  qF,>  q O SELECTEDanES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  SLETEDCIIE
HU NG A RY        r       _  .                                                      ( . /\ ,X  OOAI\ 9L  COUNrY (JUDET) CENTIERS
/  BL       ,i<I ~~~~Mare  \ N EF S_  S  c   5     AS  {            NAflONAL CAPITAL
tg>2-A  t v  v  v   't  * J  /-5--"-<?-  U   8  2  6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  .  s ~MAJOR ROADS
V    wS   \    AC}  To Kls~~~~ ~~hme-  O TH11ER PORTS
S) > > X G r 5 ~~~~~BISrlT TA-X>~                     J I A s  I  7::  RIVERS
T. 8vd.prs ~! )zl,XJ 05U >\\--                                                      COUNTY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
//SA  4{J!4)eiL *-.J <M pLtr9S .0<-                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
<'''H    O       R'>              >J'>_>                                             t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
YUGOSLAVIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HP/HT \,  A;                       VAS ,    ,ULC
This mop wos producedby the ,> / / | st \ A .J ,t . SfDonube '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \ \ D If / S EILOETEA
Mop Dessn Ume of The Wortd 8rznk K .- C C c - \ S > se vz s w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 25  (  7  10
Thbonbns,oondeomEon : r1J     t       ) 1Aexnrr D  Grur im.. @ if 
=n orohr fomwln hwmm > s) >EAERM                                                      0, 16 To 36 o' S0- 6fonB
s hls m o p d o n o si m ply  o n t h e p = t o f  w   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   (   *   t C   r o b M   S ns   \   g r   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   2 7   - _ . 1   t~ ~ M LE
T h e W o d dfjo nt G n o u p~ ~~ ~~~  Lnz d m n  a A 'o ' :   T r u o u e   { \ 6' 
suchboundones 22 j 24- B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U K R A RI N Eto2-TVro
I~~~~~~~~~~~V t C                       IE|                          .           ARIL



