ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Fre o i Povorty
U|-a       Se .U:_: m E                                                                6
i¶foshop
'Mt Wxid KWMk
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/27/2003                                24480
Section I - Basic Information                                   January      27, 2003
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ROMANIA                                 Project ID: P073967
Project: Rural Education                         Task Team Leader: Ana Maria Sandi
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 3, 2003    IBRD Amount ($m): 60.00
Bank Approval: April 22, 2003                    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSHD                              Sector: Primary education (50%); Secondary
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  education (50%)
Status: Lending                                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P),
Rural services and infrastructure (P); Education for
all (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The overall objective of the project is to make rural schools students benefit from improved access to
quality education, as evidenced by higher achievement scores and completion and transition rates. This
objective would be achieved through: (i) professional development of teachers and principals of rural
schools; (ii) improvement of teaching conditions of rural schools both with respect to adequate minimum
facilities and provision of basic teaching- learning materials and textbooks; (iii) promotion of school-
based innovation programs and community participation; and (iv) improvement of policy making
capacity of local and central education authorities/agencies. The project will support a broader
community involvement in education management, working not only with education authorities, but also
with the local councils, parents and other representatives of communities. It will aim to increase the
capacity of schools and local authorities to develop their own education plans and to improve school
management. Thus, the project is encouraging democratic school governance and is strengthening school-
community linkages.
I.A.3. Project Description:
It is envisaged that the project objective of making rural schools students benefit from improved access to
quality education would be achieved through four components:
Component 1: Improve Teaching and Learning in Rural Schools ($64.0 million)
The objective of this component is to develop the professional competences of rural teachers and to
improve basic education conditions in schools. Since education inputs have a significant effect on
students' achievements, this component will focus on teachers, textbooks and teaching/learning materials
and school utilities. Under this component, the following sub-components will be implemented: (I.1.)



2
ISDS
school-based teachers' professional development; (1.2.) career development opportunities for teachers;
(1.3.) basic education conditions in schools; (1.4) textbooks and teaching- learning materials.
Sub- component 1.1: School- Based Teachers Professional Development ($10.43 million)
The objective of this sub- component is to support a conceptual and practical change in teaching that is
critical to the improvement of student learning. Rural schools will have better access to methods,
materials and opportunities for school-based professional development of their teachers. The sub-
component will: (i) expose teachers to new ideas on how to improve learning; (ii) provide teachers and
schools with learning resources for use in increasing knowledge of classroom management, instructional
strategies, teaching methods and student assessment; and (iii) support teachers to design, implement and
evaluate experiments in improving teaching.
Sub- component 1.2: Career Development Opportunities for Teachers ($4.74 million)
The objective of the sub-component is to assist rural teachers to obtain formal qualifications as teachers
for compulsory education through an Open Distance Learning program. The target group: (i) subject
teachers graduates from university who are also teaching subjects outside their subject area; (ii)
graduates of higher education from non- teaching streams, who have some subject knowledge, but did
not have pedagogical training (e.g. engineers, agricultural and administration specialists); (iii) graduates
of upper secondary education who do not have training for teaching in primary schools (grades I-IV).
These teachers usually live in the community or nearby and are not likely to leave the place once they get
qualification. Qualification of this staff is not only going to increase the quality of instruction, but will
also encourage the long-term commitment to the community and teaching profession, since at present,
teachers from the last two categories may only be hired on a year to year basis, to fill staffing gaps.
Sub- component 1.3: Basic Education Conditions in Schools ($34.21 million)
The objective of this sub- component is to upgrade learning conditions in the most deprived rural schools
to a minimum functioning standard. The MER has made an inventory of rural school and prepared a list
of schools that do not meet minimum standards for sanitation, water, lighting or heating, or for provision
of the most basic school fumiture. National education standards clearly state minimum requirements, but
until now few rural schools could comply with them, given shortages of funds and the general poor state
of utilities in rural areas. Many schools were not able to get the hygiene permit to function and have only
a temporary approval.
The project will support rehabilitation of selected rural schools in four priority areas: (i) upgraded water
and toilet facilities; (ii) upgraded heating facilities; (iii) improved lighting; and (iv) improved school
fumiture (benches, chairs, blackboards). The specific rehabilitation tasks to be carried out in each school
are to be developed in the detailed plans, which consultants are to prepare for each school. MER has
already adopted professional design standards for each aspect of school construction and rehabilitation.
These standards, which provide for the technical soundness and safety of structures, were used in the
School Rehabilitation Project. In order to promote cost effective solutions that comply with mandatory
design standards, but reduce costs without in any way compromising the functionality of the facilities,
MER commissioned the preparation of a Manual on Appropriate Solutions for Upgrading Schools. The
Manual will be used to help guide the preparation of cost-effective upgrading plans for schools. The
manual is to provide recommendations based on the lessons leamed under the School Rehabilitation, and
is to suggest the simplest solutions that are responsive to the needs in the selected schools. The Manual
will also include guidelines and norms for communities on maintenance and management of school
utilities. The Manual will be published and disseminated to all interested design companies, to schools



3
ISDS
and local authorities. Actual solutions to be used in individual schools will be discussed with teachers,
parents and local authorities. After designs are prepared, stakeholders will again be consulted to make
sure that designs are responding to needs and are correlated with resources available within communities
This sub-component will be implemented by the PM1U of the School Rehabilitation Project and its
regional and county level structures.
Sub- component 1.4: Textbooks and Teaching- Learning Materials ($21.36 million)
The objective of this component is to ensure access of rural students to textbooks for compulsory
education and basic teaching/learning materials. Textbooks for grades 1-8 were already provided through
the Education Reform project, that also supported a thorough reform of textbook development and
provision. Since compulsory education is extended with two years (grades IX and X), the project will
support provision of textbooks for these additional years. In textbooks procurement criteria and
procedures developed in the Education Reform project will be used. In addition, under this
sub-component, the efficiency of the activity of textbooks and teaching- learning materials warehouses
will be increased. Under the sub- component, all schools participating in the School-Based Professional
Development program will receive, teaching- learning materials, to be used in classrooms (e.g. booklets,
posters, maps) and by the school (books, science equipment, sports materials).
Component 2: Improve School- Community Partnerships ($11.9 million)
The objective of this component is to empower rural schools and communities in order to develop a
broad collaborative environment supportive of education The component will both improve the
governance of schools and increase the contribution of schools to communities by encouraging and
enabling schools, local authorities and other representatives of the community to work together to
identify priorities, to diagnose problems and to formulate and implement solutions. A School-
Community Grants Program (SCG) will offer support to teachers, students, parents and the community at
large for implementing local initiatives. The SCG will promote a "learning by doing approach" and will
empower various stakeholders through: greater access to information, broader participation in decision
making, increased accountability to clients and increased local capacity to govern and manage schools.
Three categories of sub- projects will be supported: (i) sub- projects promoting students participation and
providing support to disadvantaged students; (ii) sub- projects supporting the improvement of teachers'
performance; and (iii) sub- projects strengthening partnerships and opening the school to the community.
In order for a sub-project proposal to be eligible for financing it needs to be endorsed by the LEC, to
provide evidence of beneficiaries contribution (in kind and/or in money) and not to exceed the financial
ceiling of US$7,000. The evaluation criteria are: (i) the extent to which the proposal objective is in line
with the School Improvement Plan; (ii) the extent to which the proposal is addressing the problems of
disadvantaged groups (e.g. Roma); (iii) justification of per-student cost; (iv) soundness of the financial
plan; (v) the extent to which the proposal addresses and solves environmental issues (if any); (vi) sub-
project sustainability.
Component 3: Strengthen Monitoring, Evaluation and Policy Making Capacity ($3.57 million)
The overall objective of this component is to ensure the sustainability of the project by strengthening
capacity in leadership and decentralized educational management at the local level and increasing the
institutional and analytical capacity at national and local levels for policy analysis, formulation and
planning. These objectives will be achieved through: (i) establishing the National Education



4
ISDS
Indicators Set; (ii) improving the National Education Data Base; and (iii) preparing a National
Assessment of Basic Education
Component 4: Strengthen Project Management Capacity ($4.6 million)
The objectives of this component are to provide support to project implementation and to provide project
information to all stakeholders. Under this component: (i) implementation units will be assisted; (ii) the
project monitoring and evaluation activities will be assured; and (iii) an information, education and
communication strategy for increasing the awareness of policy and decision makers and generating
stakeholders' support will be implemented (including policy advocacy and opinion-making).
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be located mostly in rural areas throughout the country. No major environmental issues or
impacts are envisaged. The population targeted are students from compulsory rural schools (grades 1-10).
No social or cultural issues are envisaged.
B. Chieck Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
Comments.
The investments to be supported under the Basic Education Conditions in Schools sub-component, namely
new and improved water, sanitation, electricity and heating facilities, in addition to the activities to be
supported under the School-Community Grant Program for improving school-community partnerships are
expected to be positive for the environment, since they will serve for improved public health, living
conditions, and environmental conservation awareness.
No major environmental impacts are anticipated under the proposed project given the relatively small
size of most of the investments. Apart from the small civil works to provide schools with new and
improved water, sanitation, electricity and heating facilities, no new structures or works of significant
size are envisaged under the project. The potential negative environmental impacts are expected to be
localized or able to be mitigated during the construction stage.
The project is classified as Fl because neither individual schools to be rehabilitated nor the small grants
will have been identified at priory.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   * Yes IC No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                           0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes* No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               C Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                I Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                O Yes 0 No



5
ISDS
*By suipporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. I a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible environmental impacts are expected.
Environmental Assessment. An Environmental Management Plan has been prepared for the school
rehabilitation activities. This is an integral part of the Operational Manual (OM). Plans for each school to be
rehabilitated will include aspects to ensure that the environment is not negatively affected by the civil works
to be supported by the project. In the case of the School Community Grants Program, the environmental
section of the OM also includes procedures and implementation arrangements for ensuring full consideration
of environmental safeguards. During project preparation, a review of the national environmental laws and
regulations specific to the project based on the recently completed review done for the Rural Development
Project was undertaken. Similarly, the capacity of the local environmental agencies for monitoring and
enforcement was assessed. The procedures developed in the Operational Manual are mandated for project
implementation through appropriate clauses in the legal document. The oversight responsibility for the
environmental section of the OM will rest with the PMUs of the project. The PMUs will ensure that the full
implementation of the actions and measures proposed in the OM.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A
IL.D 2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The proposed project will build on the environmental guidelines for school construction and maintenance
programs developed under the School Rehabilitation Project and Rural Development Project The
environmental section of the OM developed during project preparation for the infrastructure works
proposed under Sub-Component 1.3 (Basic Education Conditions) and the School- Community Grant
Program under Component 2 includes screening and assessment procedures as well as implementation
arrangements for ensuring full consideration of Bank environmental safeguards in accordance with OP
4.01 on environmental assessment and the Romanian regulations on environmental impact assessment.
The SR PMU will be responsible for the implementation of Sub-Component 1.3. In general. capacity
exists within the county level DPIUs to ensure that the environmental concerns are addressed during
project implementation.
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The whole project is based on a participatory approach. Major stakeholders are involved in project



6
ISDS
management through the Steering Committee. Under Component 1, teachers professional development is
conducted in a participatory way; provision of basic teaching- learning materials is made through
consultations with local teachers and parents; proposed solutions and designs for upgrading school
facilities are discussed with teachers, parents and representatives of local authorities. Under Component
2, all stakeholders will participate in developing the school improvement plans; sub-project proposals
will be prepared jointly by schools and communities; community procurement will ensure transparency
and accountability of sub-project implementation. Under Component 3, transparency will be promoted,
as well as participation in policy making. Since local communities will be involved in consultation
process and project implementation, they will be continuously informed about the project and any related
civil work activity. The Operational Manuals describe procedures to be followed when civil works imply
activities with tangible potential environmental impacts. In the case of small civil works with localized
and minimal environmental impacts, no formal means of public involvement or public consultation
related to environmental issues is expected.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[X] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                10/1/2002     1/14/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            1/25/2003     1/25/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             1/27/2003     1/27/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected       Actual



7
ISDS
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Ana Maria Sandi                             01/27/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Rita E. Cestti/Person/World Bank       01/14/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. Holt                             01/15/2003
Sector Manager/Director:      Maureen McLaughlin                          01/15/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
ISEAR          EEDUACK _      ITh MAP        r     _SE



