Report No. PID11301
Project Name                     ROMANIA-Rural Education (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Primary education (50%); Secondary education (50%)
Project ID                       P073967
Borrower(s)                      ROMANIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
Address: Schitu Magureanu 1, Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Tiberiu Velter
Tel: 40 1 3111358
Email: velter@ump.kappa.ro
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                March 17, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              March 10, 2003
Bank Approval Date               May 6, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Background
Romania embarked on a comprehensive reform of education immediately after
it began the transition to a pluralistic democracy and a market economy.
Education reforms designed during 1993 and supported by the Bank have
registered several important successes. Education has moved from a highly
centralized system based on a standardized curriculum, single textbook per
subject, state monopoly of textbooks publishing, no national education
quality monitoring, to a system with a flexible national curriculum,
alternative textbooks, a private textbooks publishing industry and a
national assessment and examination service. The education system has also
achieved progress in reforming teacher training, education management and
school finance.
Romania has better access to basic education than countries in other
regions at similar levels of income, particularly those in LAC and MENA.
However, public expenditure for education is low, averaging 3.2 to 3.7
percent of GDP during the second half of the 1990s. Despite universal
access to schooling, a significant fraction of children are not
successfully completing basic education. In 1995, Romania ranked 25th out
of 38 countries participating in the Third International Mathematics and
Science Study (TIMSS). From a rural vs. urban perspective, the scores were
lower in rural areas: (i) scores for Sciences were 448.16 in rural areas,
as compared to 493.68 in urban areas; and (ii) scores for Mathematics,
were 448.15 in rural areas, as compared to 493.54 in urban areas.
Rural Education
According to the preliminary results of the 2002 census, 47.3% of
Romanians live in rural areas. This population resides in 2868 communes
(439 of them with less than 2000 inhabitants). The communes are made up of



10,409 small villages. Since the beginning of the transition from a
centrally planned economy to a market system, large numbers of workers
from failing industries have moved back to villages to make their living
from subsistence agriculture, practiced on small pieces of land received
under the land restitution law. The proportion of the school-aged
population living in rural Romania has increased over the past decade.
Although the country has resumed economic growth during the last few
years, migration will not be reversed soon. Therefore, government policies
seek to improve living conditions in rural areas and stabilize the rural
population rather than to encourage re- migrating to the cities.
A census of rural schools carried out by ISE (Rural Education in Romania,
2002) documents the substandard conditions in rural basic education
schools:
Household income and regularity of income has a strong effect on school
attendance. In particular, children from households with no salaried
employees, employers or pensioners are three times more likely not to
attend school than children from households with a regular source of
income.
Rural schools with higher proportions of unqualified teachers have lower
student performance.
Rural schools with higher proportions of teachers who live in the same
community have higher student performance than rural schools with higher
proportions of teachers who commute.
All rural schools have heating facilities of some kind. Ninety percent of
rural schools have wood-burning stoves; 10t have gas or oil stoves. But
most heating facilities in rural schools are inadequate, leaving
classrooms very cold in the winter.
School furniture in 13t of rural schools is completely unsatisfactory.
Although many grades 1-4 schools operate with multi- grade teaching,
almost none has school furniture that permits students to work in
clusters, as effective multi- grade teaching requires.
Only 5 W of rural schools lack electricity - typically, because they are
in villages, which lack electricity. But many rural schools have
insufficient lighting for effective education during the winter months
when natural light is inadequate.
Most rural schools, and especially the grade 1-4 schools, have virtually
no educational materials such as maps, dictionaries and other reference
books, teachers' guides, reading books, or science materials.
Schools in communities, which participated in various activities of the
school, have higher performance than schools, which lack community
participation.
In rural areas, 31- of kindergartens, 289 of grade 1-4 schools, and 17t of
grade 1-8 schools lack any supply of water in the school. When schools are
equipped with a water supply, very rarely is it provided to toilet
facilities. Although most rural schools have toilets or latrines of some
-2 -



kind, only 5% have toilet facilities with running water.
Studies conducted in preparation of the project (using PHRD funds,
executed by the MER) identified both supply and demand related factors
that explain discrepancies. On the supply side the main factors are the
lack of qualified teachers and the long time under- investment in rural
schools. On the demand side the main factor is the relative poverty of
rural areas. In addition, other factors identified were: weak
school-community linkages, low capacity to collect education data and
information and to use it for policy making.
Supply factors
On the supply side the following categories of factors have been
identified: human resources, infrastructure and teaching materials,
finance and management (including school-community relationships).
Human resources. First, rural teachers benefited less than their urban
colleagues from ongoing teacher training opportunities since these didn't
take into account their specific situation. Traditional approaches to
teacher training are not well suited to rural areas because of: isolation,
distance to training centers; lack of transportation; cost in relation to
income; lack of cover for a teacher during training; higher proportion of
non- certified teachers; difficulty in reaching teachers through usual
communication channels (phone, fax). As a result, the great majority of
rural teachers have not been exposed to training on the new elements in
the curriculum and to changes in the assessment system. They have not
therefore been brought into contact with the new teaching skills related
to these developments. Rural schools often have only limited teaching and
learning resources and the home circumstances of the students are such
that there are few learning opportunities out of school. Moreover, in most
cases there is limited liaison and cooperation between a school and its
local community. Second, the percentage of teachers in rural areas who are
fully, but not appropriately qualified and/or are non-qualified is high.
Although Romania has an excess of teachers in urban areas in certain
specializations, rural areas are faced with a chronic lack of "qualified"
teachers.
The government has devised policies intended to attract well- qualified
teachers to rural schools. Secondary school graduates have been offered
scholarships to enable them to attend university; in exchange, the
prospective students have been required to make a commitment to teach for
an agreed period in their communities of origin. Teachers have been
provided bonuses of 5-80 percent of their salaries for accepting
appointment to a rural school. However, the impact of these measures has
been modest, so far.
Basic education conditions, both in terms of facilities and teaching-
learning materials are not met by many rural schools. Substandard
facilities conditions in rural primary schools create health risks,
contribute to problems of incomplete school attendance and degrade
teaching effectiveness and learning achievement. They also contribute to
low motivation on the part of students and teachers.
The government has made a substantial effort to rehabilitate schools.
- 3 -



Under the School Rehabilitation project (co-financed by the Bank and the
Council of Europe Development Bank), 850 schools have been rehabilitated
thus far; about 75% of them being in rural areas. By the end of the
project, 350 more schools will be rehabilitated. These were schools that
were not safe, endangering students' lives. In addition, as already
mentioned, a significant number of rural schools lack minimum utilities:
water, sanitation, heating, and lighting. This is a situation that
represents a high risk for students' health and has a negative impact on
school attendance.
Schools in rural areas suffer from a chronic lack of teaching and learning
materials. The shortages in learning materials started being addressed in
a pilot activity under the Education Reform project. 2,039 rural schools
in eight counties received basic teaching materials (benefiting about
210,000 students), as well as training for teachers on how to develop
their own teaching materials.
Education Finance. Budgetary constraints were extremely tight during the
education reform period. The level of public expenditure on education
(relative to GDP) in the period 1995-2000 was 3.3 percent, the lowest in
the region. Expenditures started increasing in 2001, aiming at reaching at
least the minimum level of 4 percent stated in the Education Law. The
fiscal decentralization and local government reform program may put
further at disadvantage rural schools. Fiscal decentralization and
capitation-based financing were conceived as means to promote greater
efficiency in the use of resources. However, special provisions for small
rural schools in poor villages were not taken yet. As the Bank Education
Policy Note (2002) has documented, governance arrangements have not been
reformed to ensure the allocation of adequate funds, or accountability for
school performance.
There is a wide variation in local capacity to implement such services as
education. Starting with existing inequities, they have a challenge to
reach consistent level of quality services across the country. Parents'
influence of educational decisions at local level is minimal, although
they are represented on School Councils. During recent years, schools in
poor rural communes have not had many opportunities for experience in
negotiating with local authorities for support. Communes lack the
organizational structures and skills needed to enable broad participation
of the community, professionals and laity, in discussing and debating
local education issues. Local authorities often do not have the
information or statements of broad public opinion needed to prioritize
education needs or to devise ways to get the community to support schools.
Demand factors
Demand for education is usually lower in rural areas than in urban areas.
Demand-side analysis through beneficiary assessment identified problems
that impede school attendance of rural students, low-income students and
other marginalized or disadvantaged groups. In 1998, 40.5 percent of
persons from rural areas were living below the poverty line, while only
27.6 percentage of persons living in urban areas were living below the
poverty line (World Bank and National Commission for Statistics, 1999).
Empirical evidence shows that there are household constraints on
schooling; children participation in the subsistence agriculture as "non-
- 4 -



remunerated family workers" represents the main cause of the increased
dropout rates in rural areas, especially at lower secondary level. 64
percent of the dropouts are leaving school before graduating compulsory
education because they need to work to supplement family incomes. The gap
in enrollment and in educational progress widened between the non- poor
and the poor, between urban and rural areas and between various
socioeconomic groups.
Education data and information and policy making
Reliable education data is not always available and incentives to provide
good data are not aligned to the needs of rural schools. The education
management information system is not well developed to monitor quality and
equity in education. Thus, MER does not have all the means to make fully
informed decisions and formulate sound policies to address these problems
systematically. There are few instruments to do a systematic and
comprehensive monitoring, both for inputs (curriculum, textbooks, school
buildings, equipment), for processes (teaching, school and class
organization, school planning), and for outputs. In addition, the lack of
empirical information about the problems of rural education in Romania and
the lack of a strong community of educators to reflect on problems are
reinforced by the extent to which factors outside the education sector may
influence decisions about education.
Central and local authority's leadership
MER identified the urgent need to address equity issues, and took a series
of consistent measures. In 1999, a Program for Educational Development in
Rural Areas was initiated. A National Council for Development of Education
in Rural Areas was established in September 2000. In 2000, the Institute
of Educational Studies developed a comprehensive study of rural schools:
"Rural Education in Romania: Conditions, Issues and Development
Strategies". In 2000, the government and the Bank agreed to re-allocate
$11.5 million from an ongoing Education Reform project for a Rural
Education pilot component, in view of learning lessons useful for a future
project. Under this new component, basic teaching materials and teacher
training were provided to rural schools in eight countries. Beneficiaries
were 208,107 students from 2039 schools. An impact study has been prepared
that identified initial effects and summed up relevant experience (Impact
Assessment, 2002). In April 2000, the Romanian government asked the Bank's
support for obtaining a grant for the identification and preparation of
the Rural Education project. The Anti-Poverty, Promotion and Social
Inclusion Commission has included rural education in its Poverty
Alleviation Strategy. The main problems dealt with are: access to
education, abandonment, unqualified teachers, lack of professional
counseling, and low value of education.
In 2001, MER started implementing a school consolidation and busing
program. So far 200 rural schools have been consolidated, 195 school buses
have been purchased to serve 5,600 students from rural areas where a
village school has been closed and children have been transferred to a
larger center (180 such centers are currently operating). In 2002, the
school consolidation process continues and another 195 mini buses are
being procured and distributed to schools. Starting with 2001, the
Government initiated a program that provides standard packages of student
- 5-



supplies to students from poor families. In 2002, the program "Roll and
Milk" for primary students is implemented throughout the country. In the
future, the program may be extended to cover all students in compulsory
education, as well as preschoolers.
2. Objectives
The overall objective of the project is to have rural schools students
benefit from improved access to quality education, as evidenced by higher
achievement scores and completion and transition rates. This objective
would be achieved through: (i) professional development of teachers and
principals of rural schools; (ii) improvement of teaching conditions of
rural schools both with respect to adequate minimum facilities and
provision of basic teaching- learning materials; (iii) promotion of
school- based innovation programs and community participation; and (iv)
improvement of policy making capacity of local and central education
authorities/agencies. The project will support a broader community
involvement in education management, working not only with education
authorities, but also with the local councils, parents and representatives
of communities. It will aim to support decentralization by increasing the
capacity of schools and local authorities to develop their own education
plans and to improve school management. Thus, the project is encouraging
democratic school governance and is strengthening school-community
linkages.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
By improving institutional capacity, the Bank's assistance would
facilitate a change in behaviors. The project will use a learning by doing
approach through which investments are financed, while behaviors are
changed and institutional capacity is increased. No other donor is
available to provide the financial and technical resources needed to
address education issues in rural areas at the needed scale. The Bank
brings in addition the global knowledge acquired through education
projects implemented worldwide.
4. Description
It is envisaged that the project objective of making rural schools
students benefit from improved access to quality education would be
achieved through four components:
Component 1: Improve teaching and learning in rural schools.
Component 2: Improve school- community partnerships.
Component 3: Strengthen monitoring, evaluation and policy- making capacity.
Component 4: Strengthen project management capacity.
Component 1: Improve Teaching and Learning in Rural Schools ($68.10
million)
The objective of this component is to develop the professional competences
of rural teachers and to improve basic education conditions in schools.
Since education inputs have a significant effect on students'
achievements, this component will focus on teachers, teaching/learning
materials and school utilities. Under this component, the following
sub-components will be implemented: (1.1.) school-based teachers'
professional development; (1.2.) career development opportunities for
teachers; (1.3.) basic education conditions in schools; (1.4) teaching-
learning materials.
-6-



Sub- component 1.1: School- Based Teachers Professional Development
($12.03 million)
The objective of this sub- component is to support a conceptual and
practical change in teaching that is critical to the improvement of
student learning. Rural schools will have better access to methods,
materials and opportunities for school-based professional development of
their teachers. The sub- component will: (i) expose teachers to new ideas
on how to improve learning; (ii) provide teachers and schools with
learning resources for use in increasing knowledge of classroom
management, instructional strategies, teaching methods and student
assessment; and (iii) support teachers to design, implement and evaluate
experiments in improving teaching. Special attention will be given to the
idea that all children can learn and that the task of the teacher is to
identify learning experiences that motivate the student and accommodate
his or her learning needs. The project will also encourage the active
involvement and support of school principals and other staff and seek to
secure the support of their local communities for the change taking place
in schools.
Under the sub- component, schools in a commune would be grouped in a
cluster and training would be offered to all teachers in the cluster,
including those who have are non-qualified or do not have appropriate
qualification. School-based activities will normally be conducted in the
main school of the commune and may, where appropriate, be conducted in any
of the other schools of the commune. The project will provide Mobile
Resource Centers (MRC) with basic equipment and instructional materials.
The MRCs will allow mentors to visit schools and facilitate training. The
outreach concept is essential both to send a message of care, enabling the
participation of those teachers who would otherwise be unable to attend
training courses. The training would bring to such teachers stimulation to
innovate, plus direct support for what they attempt in the classroom.
Fixed site resource centers will be supported only in the case of
coordinating schools resulting from school consolidation to enable
outreach mentors and class teachers to be better assisted. In this case,
basic equipment will be provided to the coordinating school.
Incentives for teachers to participate in training have been developed.
Experience with NGO projects suggests that rural teachers will welcome the
chance to participate in quality trainings, but it will be important to
gain their sustained commitment to the substantial effort that will be
required of them in changing their teaching practices. Thus, the planned
training modules and, more particularly, how they will be delivered
(recognition to the development work, often in teams, that teachers will
undertake; the processes of self-evaluation and reflection that they will
implement, and the trial that they will undertake in the classroom) will
get accreditation from the National Center for Teacher Training. The
guiding principles and speed of expansion of the school- based
professional development in rural schools will be reviewed and agreed upon
agreed after the initial phase is completed.
This approach to training is based on a body of mentors whose skills and
approach have been adapted to a teacher-centered, school-based mode of
professional development. Suitable teachers and other educators will be
recruited to become mentors. The mentors, the principal and inspectors
-7 -



will assess teachers participating in the program. Following positive
results in assessments, teachers will receive transferable professional
credits that will account for the in-service training that all teachers
are supposed to undertake periodically (every 5 years), according to the
law.
The sub- component will be implemented by the mentors, in cooperation with
the selected contractor, under the coordination of the Project Management
Unit (PMU).
Sub- component 1.2: Career Development Opportunities for Teachers ($3.43
million)
The objective of the sub-component is to assist rural teachers to obtain
formal qualifications as teachers for compulsory education through an Open
Distance Learning program. The target group: (i) subject teachers
graduates from university who are also teaching subjects outside their
subject area; (ii) graduates of higher education from non- teaching
streams, who have some subject knowledge, but did not have pedagogical
training (e.g. engineers, agricultural and administration specialists);
(iii) graduates of upper secondary education who do not have training for
teaching in primary schools (grades I-IV). These teachers usually live in
the community or nearby and are not likely to leave the place once they
get qualification. Qualification of this staff is not only going to
increase the quality of instruction, but will also encourage the long-term
commitment to the community and teaching profession, since at present,
teachers from the last two categories may only be hired on a year to year
basis, to fill staffing gaps.
The program to improve teacher's skills through training for
qualifications will serve primary and secondary school teachers who
satisfy the following criteria: having taught for a minimum of two out of
the last three years in a rural school; having been offered a contract
with a rural school that gives him/her a position as a teacher in the
school, as long as the teacher successfully completes the program. In
return, the applicant will commit to complete the program and to teach in
schools in the commune for at least 4 years after receiving the diploma
they study for.
The program implementation will include two areas of activity: (i) program
design and delivery to be undertaken by a consortium of ODL institutions;
and (ii) provision of fellowships to participants to pay for the course
and for taking examinations. The activities to be implemented in the first
area will be undertaken by a consortium of universities/institutions
selected through a bidding process. The consortium will develop a
curriculum framework for training practicing teachers and will produce
materials and software. Training will include along with more traditional
syllabi, modules specific to teaching in rural areas, such as teaching
multi- grade classrooms, community-based approaches in teaching reading
and writing etc. The MER will administer the fellowship program. Links
with sub-component 1.1 will be established by involving, as much as
possible, mentors in guidance and monitoring activities.
This sub- component will be implemented by the selected consortium of
universities, under the coordination of the PMU.
- 8 -



Sub- component 1.3: Basic Education Conditions in Schools ($34.43 million)
The objective of this sub- component is to upgrade education conditions in
the most deprived rural schools to a minimum functioning standard. The MER
has made an inventory of rural school and prepared a list of schools that
do not meet minimum standards for sanitation, water, lighting or heating,
or for provision of the most basic school furniture. National education
standards clearly state minimum requirements, but until now few rural
schools could comply with them, given shortages of funds and the general
poor state of utilities in rural areas. Many schools were not able to get
the hygiene permit to function and have only a temporary approval.
Resources under this sub-component are focused on the most urgent needs
and schools to be upgraded are to be selected under an objective and
transparent process. The project will support rehabilitation of selected
rural schools in four priority areas: (i) upgraded water and toilet
facilities; (ii) upgraded heating facilities; (iii) improved lighting; and
(iv) improved school furniture (benches, chairs and blackboards). The
specific rehabilitation tasks to be carried out in each school are to be
developed in the detailed plans, which consultants are to prepare for each
school. MER has already adopted professional design standards for each
aspect of school construction and rehabilitation. These standards, which
provide for the technical soundness and safety of structures, were used in
the School Rehabilitation Project. In order to promote cost effective
solutions that comply with mandatory design standards, but reduce costs
without in any way compromising the functionality of the facilities, MER
commissioned the preparation of a Manual on Appropriate Solutions for
Upgrading Schools. In addition, a Handbook on maintenance will include
guidelines and norms for communities on maintenance and management of
school utilities. The Manual will be published and disseminated to all
interested design companies. The Handbook will be distributed to schools
and local authorities. Actual solutions to be used in individual schools
will be discussed with teachers, parents and local authorities. After
designs are prepared, stakeholders will again be consulted to make sure
that designs are responding to needs and are correlated with resources
available within communities.
This sub- component will be implemented by the School Rehabilitation PMU
(SR PMU) and its regional and county level structures.
Sub-component 1.4: Teaching- Learning Materials ($18.21 million)
The objective of this component is to ensure access of rural students to
basic teaching- learning materials.
Under the subcomponent, all schools participating in the School-Based
Professional Development program will receive teaching- learning
materials, to be used in classrooms (e.g. booklets, posters, maps) and by
the school (books, science equipment, sports materials). Approximately
primary 8,000 schools and 4,000 secondary schools will be able to reach a
minimum standard regarding teaching- learning materials.
In addition, under this sub- component, the efficiency of the activity of
textbooks and teaching- learning materials warehouses will be increased.
Basic equipment (computers, printers and copiers) will be provided to
-9-



warehouses in each county, thus improving the registration and monitoring
system for textbooks and materials.
This sub- component will be implemented by the mentors and the PMU.
Component 2: Improve School- Community Partnerships ($11.93 million)
The objective of this component is to empower rural schools and
communities in order to develop a broad collaborative environment
supportive of education. The component will both improve the governance of
schools and increase the contribution of schools to communities by
encouraging and enabling schools and local authorities to work together to
identify priorities, to diagnose problems and to formulate and implement
solutions. Local Education Councils (LECs) will be set up at the level of
each commune, involving the mayor and representatives of: (i) the
administrative councils of all the schools from the commune cluster; (ii)
the local council; and (iii) the local firms and other local
organizations. This component will include an outreach and behavior
change, communication and sensitization activity through which schools and
communities will be assisted by facilitators in discussing education needs
and in preparing their own school improvement plans, as well as school
improvement projects. School improvement projects will be financed through
competitive grants. The LECs will be involved in managing planned
activities including mobilizing community resources.
A School- Community Grants Program (SCG) will offer support to teachers,
students, parents and the community at large for implementing local
initiatives. The SCG will promote a "learning by doing approach" and will
empower various stakeholders through: greater access to information,
broader participation in decision making, increased accountability to
clients and increased local capacity to govern and manage schools.
Three categories of sub- projects will be supported: (i) sub- projects
promoting students participation and providing support to disadvantaged
students; (ii) sub- projects supporting the improvement of teachers'
performance; and (iii) sub- projects strengthening partnerships and
opening the school to the community.
The school Administrative Council (AC) will define, in consultation with
the LEC, the sub- project objective(s) and will designate the Sub-Project
Team (SPT). The SPT will have at least three members, including the school
principal, a teacher and a representative of the community (possibly a
parent).
Grants will be awarded in all counties, although the amount available to
each county will be related to the county index. Grants will be available
to all rural schools in a county, although competition will be tougher for
low risk schools (access to 20 percent of funds) and medium risk schools
(access to 30 percent of funds), while high risk schools will have access
to 50 percent of funds. Grants will be awarded on a matching basis,
applicants been asked to contribute, in kind or financially, with at least
10 percent of the total sub-project cost. The average grants value is
US$4,000 and the ceiling of the grant value is US$7,000. Since the
sub-project costs may vary significantly, the number of grants to be
awarded cannot be predicted. However, it is estimated that at least 2,500
- 10 -



grants will be awarded during the life of the project.
The evaluation of proposals at the county level will be performed by the
county Commission for Education Innovation and Development (CEIDs) to
include members of the existing County Commission for Establishing the
Annual Average Education Costs. The CEID plays the role of a decentralized
steering committee for this project component. It is expected that after
the closing of the project, the CEIDs will have the responsibility of
organizing and monitoring the competitions for grants in their
jurisdiction.
The promotion of the competitions will be done through a series of county
level seminars involving all principals of rural schools. In addition,
facilitators that will train LECs and SPTs will use promotion materials.
The outputs sought through the implementation of the component are:
greater community participation in rural education; tested models for the
local distribution and allocation of resources for education; improved
quality of educational delivery (improved teacher and student attendance,
more time spent on tasks, a richer array of local resources in schools
etc.); experience at local level in expressing own needs and in project
preparation and implementation.
This component will be schools and communities, under the coordination of
the CEIDs, the PMU, its County Project Implementation Units (CPIUs) and
the School Inspectorates.
Component 3: Strengthen Monitoring, Evaluation and Policy Making Capacity
($3.34 million)
The overall objective of this component is to ensure the sustainability of
the project by strengthening capacity in leadership and decentralized
educational management at the local level and increasing the institutional
and analytical capacity at national and local levels for policy analysis,
formulation and planning. These objectives will be achieved through:
(i) establishing the National Education Indicators Set
(ii) improving the National Education Data Base
(iii) preparing a National Assessment of Basic Education
Establishing the National Education Indicators Set (NEI)
The objective of establishing the NEI is to define an agreed-upon set of
education indicators for monitoring the performance of the Romanian
education system, including indicators that track rural education. The
outcomes will be: (i) a booklet describing the indicators, distributed and
explained to education policy-makers, administrative staff, and teachers;
(ii) a network of experts in the system, led by a coordinating unit in the
MER, who understand and are able to use the indicators to assess system
performance at all levels and to compare the performance of rural
education with the rest of the system; (iii) basic computer skills
certified for all involved personnel.
Improving the National Education Database (NED)
- 11 -



The objective of improving the NED is to improve the existing NED to
reflect the new indicators that will be established and to make it
accessible to stakeholders throughout the country. The outcomes sought
are:
(i) a revised national computerized education database
(ii) procedures, rules and regulations on accessing the NED; and
(iii) access by MER officials, other central managers and policy-makers,
county inspectorates, and local school and administrative officials to the
education data.
Preparing a National Assessment of Basic Education
The objective of preparing a National Assessment of the basic education is
to develop, publish and disseminate a National Assessment of the
performance of compulsory education, using information from the NED,
national student assessment examinations, and commissioned national and
local studies on specific issues. The outcomes will be:
(i) publication, and dissemination of findings on student achievement in
Romania according to international students' assessments (PISA, TIMSS, and
PIRLS), the annual capacitate examination, and a second national
assessment of grade 4 student achievement, with analyses that elucidate
differences between rural and urban students;
(ii) publication and dissemination of a national school effectiveness
study using the above data, NED data, and other information to identify
significant school and non-school factors influencing student achievement;
(iii) completion of research activities related to rural education such
that: a) the monitoring and evaluation needs of this overall project are
accomplished and b) local case studies and exploratory
school/community-level primary research explain in more depth the details
and dynamics of the findings of the national studies;
(iv) publication and dissemination of a national assessment report on
basic education that draws on the research work to strengthen the
Government's policy-making and planning for continuing the national
education reform.
The working group appointed by MER and the MER's national and regional
entities would implement this component.
Component 4: Strengthen Project Management Capacity ($6.08 million)
The objective of this component is to provide support to project
implementation, including project monitoring and evaluation and to ensure
that all stakeholders and the public at large are informed about the
project.
Under this component: (i) implementation units will be assisted; (ii) the
project monitoring and evaluation activities will be assured; and (iii) an
information, education and communication strategy for increasing the
awareness of policy and decision makers and generating stakeholders'
support will be implemented (including policy advocacy and opinion-making).
- 12 -



Support to implementation units. A central PMU has already been created to
coordinate project activities. During project implementation, the PMU will
ensure the general coordination between MER's departments and various
institutions involved in the project (school inspectorates, local
authorities, NGOs). The PMU will be responsible for making sure that
procurement, financing and reporting activities are done according to Bank
guidelines. Under this component, the SR PMU that is implementing sub-
component 1.3 will also get assistance, as well as the county project
implementation units (CPIUs), the decentralized arms of the PMU, engaged
mainly in the implementation of component 2.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring activities will be based on
the MIS already existing with the PMU. Evaluation activities will also
include commissioning beneficiary assessments, surveys and focus groups.
Outreach activities. Information, education and communication activities
will be based on a strategy already commissioned by MER. They will
include: organizing workshops and seminars; development, production and
distribution of dissemination materials; production of TV and radio
programs etc. These activities will be coordinated by the PMU and will be
implemented at national and local levels.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $30.00
IBRD $60.00
IDA
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING COUNTRY $1.00
Total Project Cost $91.00
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over an expected period of 6 years, with
most activities to be completed during 5 years.
The MER has the overall responsibility for project implementation.
However, given the decentralization in education, county and local level
authorities will be highly involved in the process.
At the national level, MER will establish a project Steering Committee,
based on the core task force that was created during project preparation,
and enlarged with other stakeholders' representatives. The PMUs will
assume coordination responsibilities and will be accountable for
procurement, financial management and reporting, as well as for monitoring
and evaluation.
At county level, County Commissions for Education Innovation and
Development (CEIDs) will be established, chaired by the General Inspector
and comprising various stakeholders and some of the "change agents" in the
county. County Project Implementation Units (CPIUs) will be staffed with
two project officers, who will report to the commission and will
coordinate with the PMU.
At school/community level, LECs will be established to: (a) prepare a
needs analysis and proposal for school improvement - after training, with
technical assistance, and using nationally developed guidelines for
project preparation; (b) liaise with the Mayor's office to ensure the
local authorities formal support for the proposal and a commitment of
matching funds; (c) prepare and oversee the implementation of the project
when funds are awarded; and (d) provide for other community inputs and
- 13 -



leadership to improve the likelihood that the process begun with the
school improvement project will continue afterwards.
6A. Financial management:
Both PMU and SR PMU implementing entities are established within MER as
departments, with no legal status of their own and reporting to the
Minister of Education and Research. The main PMU, that was responsible for
the successful implementation of the Bank's Higher Education Project
(closed on 30 September 2002) and execution of the preparatory grant,
will be overall in charge with all project financial management aspects.
In respect of component 1.3, the SR PMU established also within the MER,
and currently in charge with the School Rehabilitation Project (with a
closing date of 31 January 2004) will be responsible for the day to day
implementation of activities under subcomponent 1.3 and will report
monthly to the PMU. The SR PMU has gained extensive experience in the
school rehabilitation activities under the successful School
Rehabilitation Project.
The PMUs will handle all loans proceeds and will make payments from two
Special Accounts (SAs) and direct payments from the Loan Account to the
suppliers, contractors and consultants. The PMU will handle all loan
amounts in respect of the Project, except for the component 1.3 amounts,
that will be handled by the SR PMU. The PMUs will execute the counterpart
payments directly to suppliers and consultants from their existing
Government contribution accounts opened at the Treasury, in respect of the
Romanian contribution to the project.
7. Sustainability
The long- term sustainability of the project is addressed in a special
component, i.e., component 3 that aims at increasing the equity related
policy- making capacity of the authorities involved in education. At local
level, sustainability is ensured through the empowerment of schools and
communities to get involved in decisions concerning their students.
Sustainability of the School- Based Professional Development program (sub-
component 1.1) will be ensured by including the principles of the program
in the revised National Teacher Training Strategy and by encouraging each
cluster of schools to continue to meet to share experience and engage in
joint planning of ways to tackle shared problems. Under sub- component
1.2: (i) new ODL programs will continued to be offered by universities
after project closure; and (ii) teachers participating in career
development programs will be asked to sign contracts in order to make sure
that they will continue to teach in their rural school for at least four
more years after completion of the ODL courses. The sustainability of
sub-component 1.3 relies upon special attention being given to the
maintenance of utilities (Maintenance Handbook to be distributed to all
beneficiaries) and involvement of local authorities in all stages of
project implementation. The sustainability of the provision of learning
materials under sub-component 1.4 is ensured through: (i) the quality of
the materials selected; and (ii) the increased efficiency of the
warehouses.
Sustainability of the School-Community Grant Program beyond the project
investment phase is ensured by asking County Councils to provide evidence
- 14 -



of their allocation of an increasing agreed percentage of non-project
related funds to contribute to the long term financial sustainability of
the program starting with its second year of implementation.
Another important sustainability aspect is the requirement of matching
funds (in money and/or in kind) to be allocated by the recipient of
approved proposals in an agreed proportion specified in the rules of the
SCG appearing in the OM. At the same time LECs and schools that went
through the exercise of developing school improvement plans, preparing
projects and applying for funding will be better prepared to access funds
allocated to education innovation and development.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
International best practices
Approaches to improving teaching and learning. Effective teachers are
essential to quality education. While formal qualifications do not ensure
that teachers will be effective, well-targeted training is crucial.
Various models have been applied in providing additional teacher training.
Brazil is nearing completion of a program to certify all unqualified
teachers by 2003 using a distance education model based on television,
videos, written materials, and local facilitation groups. Portugal has
enabled early childhood workers to pursue university degree courses
through evening lessons, practical projects and a thesis. More than 40
countries have used some form of distance education for teacher
professional development, in general (18 in Africa, 11 in Latin America, 8
in Asia). Western countries (France, UK and USA) have combined practical
work with training. This has proved far more effective since it affords
opportunities to apply immediately what has been learned. World Bank
projects have also revealed that the impact of training is increased where
in-school support is combined with practice.
Higher learning outcomes are more likely when basic education conditions
are ensured. Better physical facilities, furniture, basic learning
materials, schools supplies have contributed to significant improvements
in student performance, reduced failure, repetition rates and dropouts
(Brazil).
School Improvement Planning, linked to grants programs proved to be an
efficient mechanism for various stakeholders to share opinions and
challenges and to find jointly endorsed solutions to problems (in Chile,
Honduras, Trinidad and Tobago). Many developed countries have
well-established systems of development planning by schools.
Education Reform project and its pilot component on rural education
A comprehensive education reform has been implemented in Romania starting
in 1994 supported by the World Bank Education Reform Project. This was
primarily a top down intervention covering the entire sector. However,
with its pilot on the development of rural education, the project
addressed capacity building issues at grass root level. An impact study
showed that excellent feedback was received from participants on the
training provided at community level with wide participation of teachers,
parents, community representatives including the local authorities, the
church, local private sector etc. Such training sessions confirmed the
- 15 -



importance of increasing community awareness regarding school problems and
facilitated very good interactions of community and school
representatives. As a result, short and long- term plans were produced at
local level reflecting proposals from all parties involved. Based on its
interviews and focus group discussions, the conclusions of the impact
study support the importance of: (i) stimulating school-community
partnership through attracting parents, local authorities and the
community at large in programs aiming at improving basic education
facilities and strengthening linkages with other schools and communities;
(ii) involving local authorities in supporting needy families; (iii)
involving NGOs in community- based programs; (iv) increasing teaching
competences in rural areas; (v) reducing teachers' turnover; (vi)
involving both community and students in extra curricular activities;
(vii) training parents on changing mentalities, motivation for having
educated children, interpersonal relationships etc.
Social Development Fund project
The Social Development Fund project has demonstrated that community driven
development is effective in Romania. Despite initial reluctance by many
authorities, the poorest communities in rural Romania proved to have the
capacity to initiate projects and implement them, as long as they
responded to the perceived needs of the community. Provision of additional
support through a facilitation process not only enabled communities with
low initial social capital to achieve success, but also increased levels
of social capital.
Education studies and reviews
OECD Review. An extensive description of the development of education in
Romania is given in the series of the OECD Reviews of National Policies
for Education. The report provides an analysis of the entire education
system and identifies key directions for the reinforcement of the reforms
in light of the challenges faced by officials, communities, enterprises,
educators, parents and students. Extensive reference is made to the
articulation of a new "philosophy" or values in teaching and learning
promoted by the education reform in the past several years and the shift
from the "informative to the formative", aiming at developing the
learner's thinking skills for lifelong learning. The report stresses that
the challenge is to increase understanding of this new approach to
education and its implications for classroom practice and teaching
learning methodology. One of the main recommendations in the OECD report
refers to the need for a concentrated effort of the national and local
institutions to debate the new approach to teaching and learning and its
implications for the classroom as well as for the training of teachers,
inspectors and school managers.
Education Policy Note. The Education Policy Note, recently prepared by the
Bank identifies important issues such as the qualification of unqualified
teachers and the continuing professional development of qualified
teachers. It also stresses the need to develop the institutional capacity
required by the recent financial decentralization.
PHRD consultants' reports. To date, during project preparation, a series
of reports on rural education in Romania were produced. These reports,
- 16 -



most of which are written by Romanians, inform us of the social,
demographic, and economic context of rural schools and the institutional
environment in small villages. They describe the current indicators of
access and quality of rural schools in contrast to urban schools. The
reports also describe the tenuous relationship between schools and the
communities they serve. They make it clear that conditions and needs among
rural schools vary according to their geographic, economic, and social
context. Nonetheless, one common feature of many rural schools is the poor
performance of many students, as revealed by grade 4 and grade 8 test
scores, in contrast to the performance of students in urban schools.
The reports summarize government and nongovernmental efforts to reach
rural schools with additional resources and to make the allocation of
resources between rural and urban areas more equitable and efficient. They
describe some recent initiatives that the government is exploring to
decrease rural-urban inequities and pilot projects of nongovernmental
organizations with extremely poor schools and schools with minority ethnic
populations, particularly Roma.
Two reports discuss the uses of technology (computers, radio, television)
to improve instruction and management of schools; they also discuss
related projects in Romania in information technology and the status of
the ICT infrastructure.
Finally, the reports summarize recommendations on the range of
interventions the project could support to improve rural schools in which
students are not meeting the ministry's standards of academic progress.
Lessons learned especially under successful small scale interventions made
by education NGOs (e.g. Education 2000+) on strengthening community and
government support of rural schools at local, county, and national levels,
were taken into consideration, as follows: (i) make schools the focal
point of project resources; focus training at the school-community level;
(ii) use school-community teams to manage the change process, starting
with an analysis of needs and a prioritization of needs; (iii) encourage
projects that have school-community interaction and that have community
contributions; (iv) involve county officials in school-community level
activities so that they build the capacity to support the change process;
(v) build networks among institutional partners; (vi) provide for visible
results in a short period of time; (vii) take advantage of human resource
development activities taking place outside the education sector in
communities where the project is active; (viii) ensure that outcomes will
be sustainable.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The investments to be supported under the Provision
of Basic Education Conditions sub-component, namely new and improved
water, sanitation, electricity and heating facilities, in addition to the
activities to be supported under the Small- Community Grant Program for
improving school-community partnerships are expected to be positive for
the environment, since they will serve for improved public health, living
conditions, and environmental conservation awareness.
No major environmental impacts are anticipated under the proposed project
given the relatively small size of most of the investments. Apart from the
small civil works to provide schools with new and improved water,
sanitation, electricity and heating facilities, no new structures or works
of significant size are envisaged under the project. The potential
negative environmental impacts are expected to be localized, or able to be
- 17 -



mitigated during the construction stage.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ana Maria Sandi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 40 1 210 18 04
Fax: 40 1 210 20 21
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March
21, 2002.
- 18 -



