GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
RURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN AND
ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES
Basic Education Conditions in Schools (Sub-Component 1.3)
School Community Grant Program (Component 2)
January 14, 2003
IllE       O



Acronyms
ARD - Agency for Regional Development
CEPA - Central Environmental Protection Agency
CONEL - National Company for Electnc Power Distribution
CTA - Commission for Technical Analysis
DISTRIGAZ - National Company for Natural Gas Distribution
EA - Environmental Assessment
El -,Environmental Impact
EIA - Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS - Environmental Impact Study
EPL - Environmental Protection Law
EU - European Union
FWPD - Framework Water Policy directive
GD - governmental Decision GDP - Gross Domestic Product
GO - Governmental Ordinance
GUP - General Urban Plan
IPPC - COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 96/61/EC concerning integrated pollution prevention
control
ISPA - Instrument for structural Policy for Accession
IUCN - International Union for Conservation of Nature
LEAP - Local Environmental Action Plan
LEPA - Local Environmental Protection Agency
LLR - Law on the Land Resources
Lon SPNT - Law on Spatial Planning of the National Territory
LRD - Law for Regional Development
Mo - Ministerial Order
MoWEP - Ministry of Water and Environment Protection
Mot - Ministry of Transport
NAR - National Agency of Roads
NCRW - National Company, Romanian Waters
NEAP - National Environmental Action Plan
NGO - Non-Government Organization
OD - Operational Directive
PAAC - Program for Adoption of the Acquis Communitaire
PMU - Project management Unit
ROMTELECOM - National Company for Telephone Communications
SAPARD - Special Action Plan for agriculture and Rural Development
SEI - Significant Environmental Impact
SPNT - Spatial Planning of the National Territory TDP - Territory Development Plan
UWWT - Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive 91/271/EE
WL - Water Law
WSS - Water Supply System WWTF - Wastewater Treatment Facility
2



I.    INTRODUCTION
The overall objective of the project is to make rural schools students benefit from improved
access to quality education, as evidenced by higher achievement scores and completion and
transition rates. It is envisaged that the project objective of making rural schools students
benefit from improved access to quality education would be achieved through four
components:
Component 1: Improve Teaching and Learning in Rural Schools ($70.74 million)
The objective of this component is to develop the professional competences of rural teachers
and to improve basic education conditions in schools. Since education inputs have a
significant effect on students' achievements, this component will focus on teachers, textbooks
and teaching/learning materials and school utilities. Under this component, the following sub-
components will be implemented: (1.1.) school-based teachers' professional development;
(1.2.) career development opportunities for teachers; (1.3.) basic education conditions in
schools; (1.4) textbooks and teaching- learning materials.
Component 2: Improve School- Community Partnerships ($11.9 million)
The objective of this component is to empower rural schools and communities in order to
develop a broad collaborative environment supportive of education. The component will both
improve the governance of schools and increase the contribution of schools to communities
by encouraging and enabling schools and local authorities to work together to identify
priorities, to diagnose problems and to formulate and implement solutions. Local Education
Councils (LECs) will be set up at the level of each commune, involving the mayor and
representatives of: (i) the administrative councils of all the schools from the commune
cluster; (ii) the local council; and (iii) the local firms and other local organizations.
This component will support the establishment of a School- Community Grants Program
(SCG). The SCG will offer support to teachers, students, parents and the community at large
for implementing local initiatives.
Component 3: Strengthen Monitoring, Evaluation and Policy Making Capacity ($3.57
million)
The overall objective of this component is to ensure the sustainability of the project by
strengthening capacity in leadership and decentralized educational management at the local
level and increasing the institutional and analytical capacity at national and local levels for
policy analysis, formulation and planning.
This document presents the procedures and implementation arrangements for ensuring fill
consideration of environmental safeguards, in accordance with the Bank's environmental
assessment guidelines and Romanian environmental regulations in the implementation of the
school upgrading works under Sub-component 1.3, as well as the sub-projects funded under
Component 2, School-Community Grants Program. This document satisfies World Bank
requirements for a "Category Fl" project, as outlined in the Bank's Operational Policy 4.01
"Environmental Assessment".
3



II.   BACKGROUND OF THE RURAL SECTOR
The basis of the rural economy is agriculture that contributed about 16 5% to GDP in 1998.
Agriculture is the solely occupation for 70% of rural households. Money income is mainly
from the sale of agriculture produce (40%), wages, entrepreneurial activities and social
benefits. The 79,754 enterprises active in rural area in addition to farming are in majority of
wholesale and retail trade category. The rural population was 10,139,000 in 1998 living in
2,686 communes comprising of 12,756 villages. The average age of adults is 50 - 65. The
labor conditions, education level and access to health are the main factors contributing to this
situation. In 1993 only 21.5% of doctors practiced in rural areas. Rural areas are also
disadvantaged in terms of secondary and higher forms of education. Up to 1990, the rate of
migration from rural to urban areas represented more than 40% of the total migratory flow
but the ratio decreased steadily afterwards being 20.8% in 1995.Most villages are connected
to electricity (97%) but lack a centralized system for drinking water supply (81%). A lot of
them are connected to telephony network (83.9%). In 1994 only 325 had a public sewerage
system. Waste is usually simply dumped on roadside, in river valley or on deserted
unproductive terrains.
III. CURRENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATORY FRAMEWORK IN
ROMANIA
This section briefly describes existing environmental regulations and standards relevant to the
project and makes reference to institutions at the local and national levels responsible for
issuing permits, licenses, and enforcing compliance of environmental standards. Additional
details on the environmental regulatory framework can be found in Attachment 1.
Environmental Protection Law (EPL) 137/1995, other organic and major laws on various
domains, International Conventions and treaties signed and ratified by Romania, different
regulations with statute of governmental decision or ministerial order, National
Environmental Strategy and National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) define the legal
framework of environmental protection and related activities. EPL delegates most state
authority to the central environmental protection authority that is MoWEP and its territorial
affiliates (LEPA). EPL, which approaches the EU standards, sets forth general principles of
environmental policy (polluter-pays, integrated monitoring, sustainable development, NGOs
and public participation, international cooperation, rehabilitation of degraded areas) and
adopts the general ways for the enforcement of these principles, such as; harmonization of
environmental polices and development programs, correlation between special and
environmental development, compulsory use of the environmental permitting procedure for
certain economic and social activities with significant environmental impacts, use of
economic incentives.
Proponents of new projects have to apply for environmental agreement certificate. This might
be awarded only after a serious environmental impact assessment accomplished by accredited
experts and accompanied by a public debate. Potential impacts, mitigation measures and the
necessary monitoring system should be outlined in this process. After project commissioning,
an environmental permit is also required. This might be issued after LEPA staff verified the
compliance with environmental agreement provisions. Without these certificates, the
proposed activity is not allowed to proceed. Awarding of both environmental agreement and
permit are proceeded by existence of other approvals among that the Water Permit are the
most important ones.
4



The management company of each activity is obliged to set up the own internal or self-
monitoring system. Parameters to be monitored are established according to the provisions
included within environmental agreement and permit. Data have to be registered and made
available for LEPA staff. External Monitoring performed by LEPA is oriented mostly to the
recognized important polluters, due to the serious scarcity of the necessary monitoring,
analysis and information equipment.
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). The accomplishment of full EIA on whose
basis the environmental agreement would be issued, is mandatory for all activities listed in
Appendix II to the Environment Protection Law. The current regulations require that the
information provide by the developer of the EA process shall include the measures envisaged
in order to avoid, reduce and remedy the significant adverse effects.
IV. BASIC EDUCATION CONDITIONS IN SCHOOLS SUB-COMPONENT -
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
A.    Requirements to be followed
Since the exact activities under the project are not known yet, the information on the site,
design and size and the main alternatives of the project are not available at this stage.
Therefore, the requirements of national legislation relevant for each case potential area to be
targeted by this sub-component, namely upgrading existing schools are outlined below
Water supply system
Water diseases that could be transmitted to population in case of a bad quality water source or
if the pipes are not protected and kept in proper operation conditions represent the main
adverse impact. Measures to offset these adverse effects are compulsory to be taken into
account in the design phase and actually are the first things analyzed when the technical-
juridical acts such as water approval, sanitary approval, environmental permit are issued.
Additionally, any technical document (design) for drinking water source use as well as for
any drinking water supply construction and facility has to contain measures provided to
achieve the Sanitary Protection Zones or Hydro Geological Protection Perimeters, according
to GD 101/1997. WSS would generally improve the living conditions by creating possibilities
to eliminate some inconveniences common in rural area.
Wastewater Collectioni anid Discharge
In order to comply with UWWT Directive and considering the fact that nowadays intention
and trend in Romania are to realize proper sewerage network followed by wastewater
treatment facility also in rural area, two types of projects for wastewater collection and
disposal are in use:
-  A simple sanitation system meaning wastewater collection and disposal into storage
facility with or without periodical emptying.
-  Public sewerage system and wastewater treatment facility.
Projects of the first type are applicable for individual houses or group of houses and for
public objectives such as schools, medical units, children care units, fire units, police station
and so on, in rural communities where a proper public sewerage system is not available. The
5



storage facility might be a septic tank that means an isolated tank usually concrete made, with
one room, ensuring settlement of solid material. Periodical emptying is necessary due to the
limited tank capacity. From environmental point of view, the main focus in this type of
projects is on quality of water receiver. Chemical characteristics of the groundwater,
materials used for sewerage pipes and quality of work are also very important factors
Breaking and fissures of sewers are potentially sources of groundwater and soil pollution.
Mitigation measures could be taken both during design phase and afterwards: materials
chosen according to soil aggressiveness, proper work execution and sewers monitoring
during operational phase. Biogas tanks are source of risk as biogas resulting from sludge
fermentation process is a potential explosive fuel.
Waste Management
According to a GD proposal for adoption of Directive 1999/3 I/Ec on the landfill of waste, all
classes of landfills should comply with strictly regulated general requirements and criteria for
site choosing, design and realization. As these requirements could imply very large costs, a
recommendation is made for communities with less than 20,000 inhabitants to not
accomplish their own landfill. A large landfill should be realized for a city or for a county in
order to accept waste from more towns and communes. For such a landfill the environmental
protection should focus on: contaminated water; control water from precipitation entering
into the landfill body; prevent surface water and/or groundwater from entering into landfill
waste; protection of soil and water by establishing an artificial barrier (when a natural one
does not exist), addition of the bottom sealing and establishment of the surface sealing if
necessary; gas control; stability insurance; safety and barriers system against any human or
animal intruders; nuisances and hazards minimization; relation with local landscape.
Use of containers should be envisaged for this purpose and possibility for mechanical
handling of containers has to be considered. Periodic transport of waste from platform to a
landfill should be ensured. Regular visual inspection of the waste at the point of deposit
should be provided in order to ensure that only non-hazardous waste from the respective
community is accepted at the site.
Enzergy Supply- niatural gas network /expanded local gridfacilities
In case of gas network, the main adverse environmental effects are bad odor and air pollution
with all health consequences when incidental gas leakage occurs. They might be mitigated by
proper maintenance of installation and pipes. An adequate monitoring system should be set
up. For power grid extension, a special attention should be paid to electric lines going
through some valuable landscape zones since tourism activity could be diminished this way.
When the power grid extension implies construction of a high voltage line, some effects
might appear on health of people living in the proximate vicinity. Major benefic effects are of
social nature and mean the general improvement of living conditions. Health conditions of
population in rural area would benefit on long term both from general improvement of living
conditions and also from air quality improvement.
B.    Potential Environmental Impacts Resulting for the Small Works Associated with
Upgrading Schools
The projects for drinking water supply are vital for schools, having a strong contribution to
the improvement of socio- economic conditions in the riral area. These contributions mean:
6



improved pupils' health through diminished occurrence of air-borne disease and /or specific
diseases caused by lack of drinking water and sanitation. Nonetheless, the small works
associated with upgrading schools can have some negative environmental impacts, most of
which can be minimize or mitigated during the appraisal or implementation stage.
Effects produiced as consequience of an1 improper location of the project manifest both in the
construction and operation phases. The level of significance ranges from important to
moderate. These effects could be avoided and reduced to none from the early stage of the
project by choosing proper location in accordance to the provisions of the corresponding
existing laws, regulations and spatial planning documentation. The role of LEPA should
focus on intercepting the sub-projects proposals and to express their opinion on the
appropriateness of project location from environmental point of view.
Effects produced, as consequence of an improper building designi anid execution of the project
could appear both in the construction and operation phase. The level of significance ranges
also from important to moderate. The full responsibility for reducing these effects belongs to
the experts certified for design verification. The residual impacts are low ones and represent
mainly the change of use for land occupied by project areas and consequently disturbance of
natural habitats formerly existing on these areas and loss of bio-diversity.
Effects appearilng especially in the conzstructionz phase The level of significance ranges from
moderate to negligible. Ensuring the compliance with construction work regulation and
technical norms could alleviate these impacts. A monitoring system should be in place during
construction phase of the project The residuals impacts would be low ones. LEPA role
consists in inspection during the project construction in order to verify compliance with the
specific provision comprised by the environmental agreement for construction phase.
Effects appearinig manlaly in the operationi phase might be important in some cases. They
could be reduced to a low level of significance through an efficient facility operation and
maintenance activity. The existing standards for emission levels have to be respected. In this
particular case, a full EIA process sustained by a detailed EIS should be necessary in such a
case.
C.    Mitigation Measures and Environmental Management Plan
The Environmental Management Plan presented below identifies the environmental impacts and
proposed mitigation measures for most of the activities under the school rehabilitation sub-
component.
Environmental             Impacts                 Mitigation Measures
Component
Physical Enivironmlptent
Soils           Contamination from waste      Protection of soil surfaces during
materials.                    construction; control and daily
cleaning of construction sites;
provision of adequate waste
disposal services
Water            Clogging of dramage works    Special attention to drainage,
Excluded when facility is connected to functioning water management networks and facilities of sufficient
capacity
7



Decline in water quality due to  proper disposal of oil and other
contammation                   hazardous materials.
Introduction of hazardous wastes  Rehabilitation of adequate sanitary
facilities, including appropriate
disposal of wastewater and
sewerage
Air Quality       Dust during construction       Dust control by water or other
means to keep dust down if
problem is evident
Noise             Noise disturbance during       Restrict construction to certain
construction or operation      hours
Social Environlmenl t
Aesthetics and   Risk of construction debris     The building site will be cleaned
Landscape        dumped into nearby water bodies.  and all debris and waste materials
Disposal of construction waste:  will be disposed of in accordance
except for paint of wood, all other  with clauses specified in the bills
buildmg materials are non       of quantities The sites for
hazards (lime, cement and sand  disposal of construction waste
plaster, concrete, glass, ceramics  will be government-approved
-electrical and sanitary, fabric  sites.
insulated copper wiring, cast iron
sanitary pipes, galvanized water  The rehabilitation contract will
pipes, etc).                   include for site works and the
planting of trees One of the
community involvement measure
built in the project will be to get
comimutments from families and
local businesses to look after those
trees. This commitment will be
one of the aspects of the school
opening ceremony.
Human Health      Construction accidents         Specially designed systems for
Handling of asbestos material  handling/disposal of hazardous
wastes.
In Romania, there are environmental regulations in force that makes control and supervision
of construction works mandatory. Contracts and bill of quantities will include clauses for
appropriate disposal of unacceptable construction material and disposal of construction
waste. Procurement documents will specify that no environmentally unacceptable materials
will be used. Bidding documents will include rehabilitation of adequate sanitary facilities,
including appropriate disposal of wastewater and sewerage. The environmental management
guidelines included in Attachment 2 should be provided to contractors engaged in civil works
under the project, and should be made an integral part of the civil works contracts.
D.     Institutional Arrangements to be Observed During Project Implementation
The proposed project will comply with environmental regulations and will obtain the necessary
penmts and licenses. The only main parties involved in this process are: (i) Proponent of the
project is the management agency of the activity within each project, and (ii) LEPA in the
county(ies) on whose territory(ies) the project is located
8



According to Romanian legislation, no other specific institutional arrangements should be
necessary. LEPAs should have already issued a letter of location approval for some of the
project proposals under the project, when asked to do so, that could not replace the
environmental agreement. The legal EA procedure should be applied for the retained (or
agreed) proposals.
Plans for each school to be rehabilitated will include aspects to ensure that the environment is
not negatively affected by the civil works to be supported by the project. Proponents of
school rehabilitation will have the responsibility to prepare the application file by taking the
following steps:
-  clarify the legal state of terrain assigned to the future subproject; who is the owner
and if the owner agrees the subproject;
-  prepare a technical documentation that should describe the subproject; this
documentation should also contain description of the internal monitoring system;
-  address to County Council for the Urbanism Certificate to be awarded;
-  obtain all approvals specified within Urbanism Certificate.
The tariff for LEPA services is limited to about 200USD. If an EIS is needed, time and cost
for EIS preparation are subject to the market mechanism. Proponent of each subproject is the
one who should pay for these services even if CEB would decide to not release the finalncing
funds LEPA also require maximum 30 days, after the report of EIS has been submitted,
necessary to review the report, to organize the public debate and to decide upon the
environmental agreement awarding. Public could express its opinion during these 30 days.
During and after project implementation, LEPA and NCRW have attributions related to
environmental monitoring. Proponents are responsible for internal environmental monitoring.
The project will ensure that engineering firms are providing adequate site supervision,
particularly the supervision of carrying out the environmental plan (monitoring the disposal
of unwanted materials, disposal of waste water and sewage, etc.).
E.    Public Involvement
The Project Management Units will organize public consultations during the preparation of
the downstream investments.
V.    SCHOOL COMMUNITY GRANTS PROGRAM             - CHAPTER 4 OF THE
OPERATIONAL MANUAL ON ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING,
ASSESSMENT AND MONITORING
Procedures on Environmental Screening and Assessment
No major environmental impacts are anticipated under the proposed program given the
relatively small size of most of the investments. The investments to be supported under the
School- Community Partnerships component for developing a collaborative environment
supportive of education, are expected to be positive for the environment, since they will serve
for improved education conditions.
Proposals to be financed within the School-Community Grants program (SCG) are expected
to be environmentally beneficial, none of the sub- projects to be financed is expected to have
9



any large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts. No new structures or works of
significant size are envisaged under the project. The potential negative environmental impacts
are expected to be localized or able to be mitigated during the implementation stage.
It is foreseen that projects financed under SCG program of the project, due to the types of
eligible activities and the small scale projects, will not require from the applicants an
Environmental Impact Assessment or an Environmental Management Plan. However the
Environmental self-assessment and its screening and review are recommendable for the
educational and awareness purposes.
Even if the environmental review of the submitted sub- project applications does not require
an environmental management plan, a series of guidelines, will be provided within the School
Project Preparation Guide.
The environmental screening and assessment procedures will be applied to all submitted sub-
project applications. As established, the first screening of all submitted applications is the
responsibility of the County Project Implementation Unit (CPIU), which has to review the
compliance of the proposal with the eligibility criteria. On the demand-side, each project
proposal must be submitted to CPIUs with a full application package, including a completed
environmental questionnaire The CPIU reviews the received applications, and in the case
when the Environmental Questionnaire is not filled it requests necessary information from the
applicant. If the filled Questionnaire is not submitted within 10 days from the date of
notification, the project application not meeting the eligibility criteria is rejected.
If the core eligibility criteria are met and environmental questionnaire attached, the
application will be subject for in-depth review during the evaluation process. The selection
criteria upon which the applications are judged will include items such as:
* nature and amount of any hazardous materials to be used as raw materials, in the
operation scheme, or produced as products/by products. Detail the manner in which
they will be stored, packaged and/or transported (e.g. in the school labs, etc.);
* nature of waste as result of project activities completion and its management;
* actions jointly developed by school and community to rehabilitate the local
environment, if any;
*  areas or sites of unique ecological value (national parks, protected preserves,
wetlands, rare or endangered plants or animals) or formally protected by law, if any;
*  particular hazards or dangerous conditions for local community, the measures taken to
protect their health and safety;
*  any contacts or discussions about the environmental issues of the project, which have
been occurred with people living in the area, local elected officials, environmental
groups, etc.
Evaluation Committee members should have the capacity to recognize, in a general way,
potential environmental problems resulting from the project's activities, in order to avoid
adverse environmental effects. These abilities will be further built through the planned
training of evaluators included in the project.
The PMU will monitor environmental aspects of the approved projects during the whole
project lifecycle. The CPIU supervisors will be trained under the project and with the
10



assistance of the School Project Preparation Guide will be able to pass judgment on whether
or not a particular project is in compliance.
Funds for all above-mentioned trainings are planned under the project. A specialized local
finm, procured according to TORs that will be cleared by the Bank, will perfonm training.
During the whole duration of the project implementation until the grant contract is closed, the
field supervisors of the PMU will carry out periodic monitoring and evaluation of the
environmental perfonmance of the school, particularly prior to the disbursement of tranches
or when considering any extension of disbursement schedule is requested. This would allow
the central project management unit and its CPIUs, to observe potential controversial projects
impact, to recommend remedial actions to be taken and to ensure that the Bank and the
domestic legal requirements are met and local project teams as well as local beneficiaries
(students, teachers, community etc.) are enough aware that these concemns should be properly
addressed.
As part of the capacity building activities, a set of guidelines should be prepared that will
allow PMU staff, especially of projects supervisors to determine the general environmental
effects that a project will have. In this way, it will be supplementary assurance that needed
monitoring capacity will be in place.
The PMU will submit to MER periodic regularly reports on the implementation including of
its environmental procedures and on the environmental performance of its projects portfolio
(see for details Project cycle section). The Environmental Supervision and Performance
Report chapter shall include the following:
* the results of the field supervisors screening and review procedures;
* a description of any operations not currently in compliance with environmental
requirements as per its corrective action measures and of the actions the PMU has
taken or intends to take to correct the situation.
Environmental Supervision and Performance Report
The World Bank will further monitor the environmental issues meaning that the Bank
supervision missions have in environmental review development is also important as another
filter. These missions should also include a staff environmental specialist on the occasional
supervisory mission to ensure that environmental monitoring is being conducted effectively
and that monitoring results are being acted upon.
The specialized coordination unit within PMU organizational structure will require basic
environmental awareness training. Within 6 years of program completion, the PMU shall
have had at least one chance of its employees to attend an approved environmental training
event.
Nevertheless, the PMU and CPIUs, which have the responsibility of authorizing payment of
tranches shall organize the proposals environmental review and further supervision during the
implementation stages. Thus, the training curriculum, which will be tailored for evaluation
committee members, will include environmental issues in order to sensitize the appraisers
and make them familiar with the environmental requirements.
11



It is envisaged that all projects financed under the School-Community Grant Component are
environmentally benign. The residual risks identified above are going to be mitigate based on
the review and monitoring procedures More than these, it is expected that the overall effects
of the projects will be positive, taking into account that the primary overall objectives of the
projects is linked with education improvement and sound learning environment building.
Thus, the projects activities will result in an increased awareness on environmental protection
at the level of pupils and teachers, as well as at the level of community members.
12



ATTACHMENT 1
ENVIRONMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE, POLICY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Administrative, Policy and Legal Framework
Ministry of Water and Environmental Protection is the central environmental protection
authority and plays also the role of Central Environmental Protection Agency (CEPA) at
present. A Territorial Environmental Protection Agency as local environmental protection
authority operates in each of the forty counties, in Bucharest, in Ilfov agricultural sector and
in the Administration of the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve.
Environmental Protection Law, other organic and major laws on various domains,
International Conventions and Treaties signed and ratified by Romania (that have been
adopted by national laws), different regulations with statute of governmental decision or
ministerial order, National Environmental Strategy and National Action Plan define legal
framework of environmental protection and related activities.
Environmental Protection Law (EPL)
The primary legislative act for environmental protection is the Environmental Protection Law
137/1995 (republished in 1999) that establishes the institutional framework for environmental
protection, delegating most state authority to the central env:ronmental protection authority
and its territorial affiliates. MoWEP plays the role of central environmental protection
authority in the sense of this law (art.88) and in practice so far
The law stipulates that all of the central and local administrative authorities, juridical persons
and individuals are responsible for environment protection (art.6). General responsibilities,
duties and liabilities incumbent upon the environmental protection authorities, on other
central and local authorities and ministries such as Health, National Defense, Research and
Technology, National Education, Transport and Tourism, are also set up (art.65-67).
The EPL sets forth general principles of environmental policy (among which the polluter-
pays, integrated monitoring, sustainable development, NGOs and public participation,
international cooperation, rehabilitation of degraded areas (art.3)), and adopts the general
ways for the enforcement of these principles, such as: harmonization of environmental
policies and development programs, correlation between spatial and environmental
development, compulsory use of the environmental permitting procedure utilizing both
construction and operating permits for certain economic and social activities with significant
environmental impacts, use of economic incentives (art 4).
Chapter II is dedicated to the framework regulation of the activities with environmental
impacts permitting procedure itself with provisions for EIA process, environmental audit and
compliance schedule (Section 1); regulation regime in case of dangerous substances,
hazardous and solid waste (Section 2), chemical fertilizers and pesticides (Section3),
radiation and nuclear safety (Section 4).
Chapter III contains sections addressing specific areas of environmental and natural resource
protection that include: water and aquatic ecosystem; atmospheric pollution; soil, subsoil and
terrestrial ecosystems; protected areas and national monumnents, hunman settlements
13



The Law provides policy guidance and some basic legal principles in each of the above-
mentioned areas but also contemplates further legislation and/ or regulation in many of them.
Other Environmental and related Legislation and International Conventions and
Treaties
A certain number of organic lows, such as Water Law (Law 107/1996), forestry Code (law
26/1996), Nuclear Safety Code, Game Protection and Hunting Code (Law 103/1996) and the
major Law on Environmental Investment Fund (Law 73/2000), have been enacted following
the EPL. Other laws pertaining to the domains on the list in art.88 of EPL, such as solid
waste, protected natural areas, air protection and toxic substances, are now in different stages
of draft development and review.
A large number of GDs and MOs related both to LEP and other laws as well as to domains
not yet regulated by laws have been issued There are also numerous international
conventions signed or ratified by Romania related to environmental protection.
National Environmental Strategy; National Environmental Action Plan; National Plan
for Adoption of Acquis Communautaire
National Environmental Strategy was first prepared and released in 1995 This was updated
in 1999. The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) was prepared in 1995 providing
the integration of environmental policies within the other sector policies (industry,
agriculture, transport, physical planning and health) as well as the process to be followed for
project selection, analysis and implementation.
According to the National Plan for Integration in the European Community, Program for
adoption of the Acquis Communautaire (PAAC) was set up. NEAP was updated in 1998 in
compliance with PAAc and updated again in 1999.
Two stages were developed in 1999 as part of the PAAC, one for the approximation of IPPC
EU Directive and the other for the Directives related to Air quality and Climate change
issues. The approximation strategy for water quality sector was carried out in 2000.
The process is going on for preparing the approximation strategies for horizontal legislation
and waste management
Environmental Assessment and Spatial Planning
The so-called Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) is not institutionalized in Romania
for any superior phases of the decision making process, i.e. policy, plan and program. Only in
case of special planning activity this process is mandatory but under the same EIA name.
The special planning covers usually a time period of 5-10 years and is finalized under the
form of some documents generically named GUP for general urban plan or TDP in case of
territory development plan While the GUP has to be realized for each urban or rural locality,
i.e. town city or commune, the TDP is achieved for a larger area that could cover one or more
localities and the adjacent territory A TDP might be developed for the administrative
territory of a municipality that may include the municipality itself and some neighbor
communes, for one county ( County Spatial Planning or CSP), for a region or zone covering
14



parts of two or more counties (Zone Spatial Planning or ZSPO and for the entire country (
Spatial Planning of the National territory or SPNT).
Although MO 187/1999 provides that is necessary to ensure the sustainable development
principles and requirements, the procedures for carrying out this process is not very well
defined. Anyway the GUP or TDP developer must cooperate with the MoWEP specialized
departments and LEPA units and with the other specialized institutions under MoWEP
coordination.
An environmental agreement mandatory for the land use planning documentation
endorsement should be issued following the EIA process. The same MO 187/12999 specifies
that an EIS should not be required.
Environmental Permitting Procedure for New Investments.
Out of the EU environmental legislation that has prior to accession in European structures,
the national legal provisions regarding the environmental impact assessment process for the
new projects now reach the highest level of approximation. These provisions comprised
within Environmental Protection Law 137/1995, MO 125/1995 of MoWEP that refers to
permitting procedure for economic and social activities having an environnmental impact and
M02 78/1996 of Mo WEP (re: accreditation for EIA)
EPL Related Provisions
EPL sets forth the general environmental permitting requirements for the new projects
promotions It stipulates that:
i) the new investments (projects), the investments for modifications of the existing activities
and the activities (projects) listed under the Appendix II of the Law require an environmental
agreement (art.8);
ii) the environmental agreement should be issued by CEPA or LEPA in accordance with the
competence stated in Appendix I of the Law, prior to commencing construction; the
competence criteria include the project size and the importance; CEPA has the competence in
case of the projects located in more than one counties;
iii) the new activities that do not involve construction and erection works' exempting those
listed in Appendix II of the law item 8.g) that do not require the environmental agreement
9art.*);
iv) CEPA would carry out the specific permitting procedure (art.9);
v) the validity of the environmental permit is 5 years (art.9)
vi) the environmental permit will not be released if any project alternative does not provide
mitigation measures for the environmental impacts as against the standards and regulations in
force (art9)
vii)the environmental impact assessment procedure comprises the preliminary, the actual and
the review and validation stages (art.l 1)
viii) LEPA organizes and decides upon the applicability of the procedure stages (art 11),
15



ix) Appendix II contains the ,,LIST" of the activities subject to the environmental impact
assessment procedure for the releasing of the environmental agreement"
M0125/1996 Related Provisions
Following the EPL provision mentioned under item iii) MoWEP issued MO 125/1996 that
comprises the detailed permitting procedure.
The order provides that:
i) Environmental impact study (EIS) is required for any facility or activity likely to have a
significant environmental impact, through its nature, size or location (art. 3.3 1);
ii) Any activity listed under Appendix II of EPL is likely to have a significant environmental
impact, through its nature, size or location (art. 3.3.2.)
iii) For any other unknown activity that is not listed in appendix II, the environmental
authority competent to release the environmental agreement would use a set of criteria to
judge if the activity is likely to have a significant environmental impact. These criteria will
include the characteristics of each activity or facility, its location and the characteristics of the
potential impact taking into account the magnitude and complexity, probability, duration,
frequency and reversibility as well as the trans-boundary effects of the impact (art 3 3.3.)
iv) Project proponent or its representative applies for the environmental agreement (art.4.1)
no matter the source of funding and pays the required fee.
v) Application for the environmental agreement is addressed to LEPA operating in the county
where project is located (art. 4.1)
vi) When project area covers parts of two or more counties, an application should be
addressed to LEPA in each county; MoWFEP has the competence for environmental
agreement awarding in this case 9art 4. 1.)
vii) LEPA decides if EIS should be required or not (art. 4.2.)
viii) Procedure for environmental agreement release consists in some steps; a sequence of
these steps is imagined and presented for the situations if the EIS is required ( art 4 3 ) and if
not (art.4.4.).
ix) In case a full EIS is required (sequence presented in fig.3.1), these steps include: the
screening performed by LEPA and a committee of Technical Analysis (CAT) to determine
the main aspects to be studied in the EIS, decision of a preliminary EIS necessity, EIS review
performed also by LEPA, public debate, decision if the environmental agreement should be
released or not. Procedure for environmental agreement is addressed to LEPA operating in
the county where project is located (art. 4.1 .).
x) EIS should be carried out only by specialized units (companies or individuals) certified
according to qualifications criteria stated through CEPA order (art.9.2)
16



xi) Proponent pays for the EIS
xii) Application file should contain all approvals issued by: NCRW (water), Fire
Commandment, sanitary, National agency of roads, ROMTELECOM (for telecommunication
utilities), DISTRIGAZ ( for natural gas network), CONEL ( for electric power), Local
Inspectorate for Construction Safety.
Environmental Permitting for New Investment Commissioning
After completion of a new investment, it is mandatory for the owner to obtain an
environmental permit. The general frame of the permitting procedure is described also within
MO 125/1996.
It is compulsory for LEPA staff to carry out an inspection aimed to verify the compliance
with environmental agreement provisions. Sometimes an environmental audit is required by
LEPA in order to issue the permit. From case to case, this audit includes measurements,
sampling and analysis.
When the findings show that the provisions included in the environmental agreement are not
respected, the environmental permit is issued with compliance program for a limited period
of time
The environmental permit is not permanent and its renewal depends on the results of
periodical controls.
The environmental permit is proposed to be an integrated one and to include also the
provisions regarding water qualitative and quantitative management issued by NCRW ( as
presented in par.3.7.5 ).
Water Approval and Water Permit
M0699/1999 of MoWFEP approving Procedure and competence for Water approval and
water permit issuing provides the following issues:
i) According to WL, during the design stage, for any project regarding either a construction
on a water body (further named a non-consuming water user) or a social -economic activity
that user water resources in sense of water abstraction or wastewater discharge (further
named a consuming water user) the proponent is obliged to require and obtain a technical -
juridical act named water approval (art.2-2)
ii) This act is mandatory both to obtain investment funds from state and local budget and to
carry out the new investment project related to water bodies (art.6)
iii) As concerming any water management issue such as flood danger in the project location
zone, general operation rules of water reservoirs, different technical solutions, relation with
the existing or planned to be water reservoirs or water diversions, water source quality,
conditions for wastewater discharge into natural water receivers, and so on, the proponent
should require a technical consultancy from general Directorate of Waters within MoWFEP
or/and from NCRW (art.4)
iv) Proponent should pay for technical consultancy 9art. 5)
17



v) LEPAs have the competence to issue the water approval act on the basis of a Technical
Specialized Report (TSR) carried out by NCRW or its local branches (art.25-(1)).
vi) In case of a project covering the territory of two or more counties, water approval is
issued by LEPA in the county where the proponent headquarters is (art. 25-(1))
vii) The TSR signer is fully responsible of its content (art.25-(3)).
viii) According to Annex lb, Annex I c) and Art. 11, the water approval is compulsory for
projects of the following type, among others drinking water supply system for more than
101/s debit, water supply system for less than 101/s in rural area not provided with wastewater
treatment facilities or septic tanks, wastewater treatment facility, bridge (as part of a road
project), pipes and electrical lines that cross a water body, urban and industrial waste
deposits.
ix) Water approval should have lost its validity after two years from the issuing date if the
construction works had not been started yet (art. 15).
x) Proponent is fully responsible for the accuracy of any data and information in the water
approval application file.
xi) Application file should include any previous accepts, approvals, agreements related to the
project.
xii) Water approval should be required for the project feasibility study, on the basis of a
technical document. This technical document, whose content is subject to provisions of MO
277/1997 of MoWFEP, should be carried out by taking into account the specialized studies
with respect to hydrology, meteorology, management of water quality and quantity as well as
environmental impact issues. According to WL, these studies should be performed by public/
private institutions or companies accredited by MoWFEP (art. 22).
xiii) Mo 965/1998 of MoWFEP requires any institution or company that carries out designs
or hydro- technical works to be accredited by a specialized commission working within
MowFEP; the accreditation certificate is issued on different domains such as; water resources
management, works for river course adjustment, water supply systems for industrial and
urban users including here water supply network and waste water treatment facility, and so
on, when being accredited, one mandatory condition for such a company is to include at least
one expert and one design verifier certified in their turn by MoPWSP among its specialized
staff.
xiv) Owner of a new project (of the type described in par. I.) is obliged to require and obtain
a technical- juridical act named Water permit prior to the commissioning of the project
activity ( art. 8).
xv) Water permit is compulsory for projects of the same type as in case of water approval
(art 40)
xvi) LEPAs have the competence to issue the water permit for consuming water users
(art.52).
18



xvii) NCRW or its local branches have the competence to issue the water permit for non-
consuming water users (art.54).
xviii) Application file for water permit should contain water approval and compliance
schedule among other documents.
xix) Any application file should be submitted to the local branch of NCRW active on the
territory where the water user is located.
xx) NCRW specialized staff should carry out the Technical Specialized Report on the basis of
the site technical visit findings.
Monitoring system
Two independent environmental monitoring systems are usually in place for any social and
economic activity. A third one, applicable to consuming water users and operated by NCRW
through its local branches, has the main goal to verify the compliance with water approval
and water permit.
Inzternal or self-monitoring System
The management company of each activity is obliged to set up this system. Parameters to be
monitored are established according to the provisions included within environmental
agreement and permit. A service should be negotiated with accredited laboratories for
sampling and data analysis. Data have to be registered and made available for LEPA staff.
19



External Monitoring performed by LEPA
Due to serious scarcity of advanced monitoring, analysis information, equipment necessary
for each LEPA, the control activity is oriented mostly to the recognized important polluters.
However, LEPA control activity is regulated by MO 541/2000, Technical Norms for control
and inspection activity in environment protection field" that approximates the UE legislation
provisions within Directive CEE 61/96. It stipulates, among others, the following issues:
i) New activities are subject to a compulsory inspection activity on the whole construction
period including the technological trial stage, in order to verify compliance with the
conditions comprised by the environmental agreement.
ii) After commissioning, any activity or objective will be controlled first of all in order to be
issued the environmental permit.
iii) Once the environmental permit was issued, the activity is controlled lifelong with a
frequency depending on its potential environmental impact.
iv) This general inspection might include sampling and aims to:
- Verify compliance with the environmental permit conditions including the monitoring
requirements provided by permit;
- Visit and evaluate the technological process and laboratory activity, processes generating
significant amount of waste, quality water effluents and water receivers, eventual activities
related to the rehabilitation of polluted zones.
v) Other types of inspection have the roll to: evaluate the environmental performance;
substantiate reports or special evaluations for MoWEP, other authorities, or public
information; evaluate situation and circumstances in case of accidental pollution events;
survey the application of some measures imposed during a previous inspection.
20



ATTACHMENT 2
ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES FOR CIVIL WORK CONTRACTS
Contractors will be obliged to apply environmentally sound construction standards and
procedures. All civil works contracts will have the following environment-protecting
provisions:
*  Take measures and precautions to avoid adverse environmental impacts, nuisances or
disturbances arising from the execution of the works. This shall be done by avoidance or
suppression whenever possible rather than abatement or mitigation of the impact once
generated.
*  Comply with all national and local environmental laws and regulation. Nominate staff to
be responsible for implementation of environmental actions and to receive guidance and
instructions from the engineer or environmental authorities.
*  Minimize dust emissions to avoid or minimize adverse impacts on air quality.
*  Maintain foot and vehicular traffic flows and public access to neighboring sites and
facilities. Provide markers, lights and temporary connections or bypasses for safety and
convenience.
*  Prevent or minimize vibration and noise from vehicles, equipment and blasting
operations.
*  Minimize disturbance to and restore vegetation where it is disturbed as a consequence of
the works.
*  Protect surface and groundwater and soil quality from pollution. Appropriately collect
and dispose of water material.
21



