                                                                                                                  92507
A New Spark in Romania's Rural Schools                                                                            March 31, 2006
DRAGANU, Romania - In the science lab which doubles as a classroom for 6th grade students, the desks are bulky white boxes behind
                                which pupils sit two by two. Surrounded by potted plants and faded posters, the kids are dwarfed by
                                the heavy wooden furniture. Carmen, a precocious 10 year-old, has to stand on her feet to reach her
                                notebook and write.

                                      Upstairs, where lightweight desks and chairs have recently arrived, teachers like Vasile Priciu, 51,
                                      have discovered the art of semicircles and small study groups. Every morning the children of his
                                      class, a mixed bunch aged 6 to 10, rearrange the furniture. “It doesn’t hamper discipline. It helps them
                                      stay engaged and interact,” says the lifelong teacher, delightedly. “This never happened in the past.”

Traditionally, school in Romania meant rows of children, often silent or bored, sitting distractedly as a teacher droned on with his or her
lesson. In an effort to break with this passive model inherited from the country’s authoritarian past, the Romanian government is working
with the World Bank to modernize its schools.

A first set of projects helped revise the national curriculum, reorganize universities and rehabilitate school buildings. The latest endeavor,
the Rural Education Project, was launched in 2003. Financed with a $60 million World Bank loan, the project seeks to correct disparities
between rural and urban schools, a particularly important issue as Romania moves ahead with decentralization.

Helping bridge the gap between urban and rural schools

Some of the fresh money is being used to address pressing material needs in rural areas, where 45%
of Romania’s 22 million people live. Draganu’s school, which serves 160 children from kindergarten to
8th grade, is a case in point. Although it is set in a relatively well-off rural area,  near the industrial
town of Pitesti and only a couple of hours’ drive from Bucharest, the school has no running water. In
the absence of sinks, classrooms have buckets. Children are forced to cross a field, freezing and
muddy in the winter, to reach a small outhouse.

The Ministry of Education has earmarked $34 million under the Rural Education Project to bring
Romania’s 1,500 rural schools up to “civilized standards.” It wants to make sure these schools have
access to necessities such as heating, running water, toilets and electricity by 2009. The ministry has also distributed 1.2 million new
books so far this year as well as posters, maps and teaching kits which school teachers requested.

The need for special assistance is dire. “These are schools that have not received anything in 30 or 40 years,” says Tiberiu Velter, the
project’s director at the Ministry of Education.

Students are more focused and engaged

                                      But in Romania as elsewhere it’s the quality of teaching not books, desks and plumbing that sets
                                      good schools apart. Because the best educated teachers can’t be lured to teach in village schools,
                                      rural teachers tend to be much less qualified than their urban counterparts. To address this challenge,
                                      the Romanian Ministry of Education and the World Bank have devised an innovative mentoring
                                      scheme.

                                    Starting in six pilot counties, teams of educators have been traveling in mobile units from one meeting
                                    with rural teachers to the next. They come armed with booklets and Power Points presenting the
                                    latest didactic tools. “The idea is not to preach but to invite teachers to reflect on their particular
styles,” notes Ana Maria Sandi, the World Bank’s team leader for the project.

At the Draganu school, teachers have spent 100 hours of their free time with mentors this spring. They discussed interactive teaching
methods, the year-round evaluation of students and how to adapt the national curriculum to rural areas. “I wish the sessions had been
longer,” says Priciu, avidly. He was skeptical at first but later found the training invaluable. In the past, village teachers were supposed to
travel to faraway towns at their own expense to receive extra training. As a result, few of them did.

Now the teachers are offered practical advice in their own classrooms and can put  their new skills quickly into action. At Draganu,
teachers have already started seeing encouraging results. “The children retain more information. They flip through their textbooks more
and are more engaged,” says one of Priciu’s colleagues.

For the first time, a bond is established between schools and communities

The World Bank and the Romanian Ministry of Education also launched a competition in
which schools, working with the municipality and local citizens, are invited to submit project ideas.
Winning programs have invited adult villagers to discover the school library, for example, or offered
farmers a chance to learn with their children about the Internet.
Under the communist regime, schools were seen as alien appendages of the state in which parents
had no role to play. Not much was done to change this situation during the difficult years of economic
transition. "This is the first time communication and cooperation between schools and communities is
fostered," says Sandi. “Our project addresses shortages of material but the main feature is really
bringing people together to think about their school’s development.”

                                                                   ***

This progress was made possible thanks to the World Bank's Rural Education Project (2003-2009). To read more about this
ambitious project, click here.

Initially published in August 2005
