Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20415
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-22230)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 213.5 MILLION (US $307.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
June 12, 2000
Education Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective -as indicated)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 100.00 = US$ 2.82 (1996-97)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 17.94 (1990-91)
Rs. 24.47 (1991-92)
Rs. 30.65 (1992-93)
Rs. 31.37 (1993-94)
Rs. 31.39 (1994-95)
Rs. 33.44 (1995-96)
Rs. 35.50 (1996-97)
Rs. 37.16 (1997-98)
Rs. 41.30 (1998-99)
Rs. 43.10 (1999-00)
The figures indicate average exchange rates over Indian fiscal year.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AICTE           -          All India Council for Technical Education
COFMOW          -          Central Organization for Modernization of Workshops
DGS&D           -          Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals
DTE             -          Directorate of Technical Education
GOI             -          Govermment of India
ICR             -          Implementation Completion Report
IDA             -          International Development Association
IRG             -          Internal Revenue Generation
LRDC            -          Learning Resources Development Center
MHRD            -          Ministry of Human Resource Development
MPECS           -          Multi-point Entry and Credit System
NPD             -          National Project Directorate
NPE-86                     National Policy on Education -1986
NPIU            -          National Project Implementation Unit
SAR             -          Staff Appraisal Report
SDR             -          Special Drawing Rights
SPIU            -          State Project Implementation Unit
TTTI            -          Technical Teachers Training Institute
Vice President:    Meiko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:    Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Education Team Leader:    Edward H. Heneveld
Task Team Leader:    Shashi Kant Shrivastava



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2223-IN)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    6
6. Sustainability                                                                        9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      12
9. Partner Comments                                                                     13
10. Additional Information                                                              14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   23
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                     24
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                   26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P009988                                        Project Name: Second Technician Education Project
Team Leader: Shashi K. Shrivastava                         TL Unit. SASED
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR            Report Date. June 12, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Second Technician Education Project             L/CITFNumber: IDA-22230
Country/Department: INDIA                                                 Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: EV - Vocational Education & Training
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/22/88                                 Effective: 09/15/91            01/29/92
Appraisal:  11/27/90                                   MTR:                       08/15/95
Approval:  03/28/91                                 Closing: 06/30/99             10/31/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOI/MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
Other Partners:  States of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Mahrashtra,
Punjab, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, National Capital Territory of Delhi, and Union
Territory of Pondicherry
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            Joseph Wood
Country Manager.     Edwin Lim                                  Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager.'      Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                       Richard Lee Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:   Shashi K. Shrivastava                     Richard A. Cambridge
ICR Primary Author:   Y. Saran and Shashi K.
Shrivastava
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
This was the second project in Technician Education sub-sector in India and was similar in scope and
components to the Technician Education Project (Cr. 2130-IN closed on September 30, 1998) but covered
different states. This project assisted 249 polytechnics in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana,
Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, the National Capital Territory of
Delhi and the Union Territory of Pondicherry. The project supported the Ten Year Investment Program
according to the National Policy of Education - 1986 (NPE-86). Its main objective was to make education
in the government/government-aided polytechnics more responsive to the expansion of science and
technology and the needs of the industry and the rural sector through the introduction of new technology
and training approaches in the project States. Specifically, the objectives were to: (a) expand the capacity
of the polytechnic system; (b) improve the quality of polytechnic programs; and (c) enhance the efficiency
of management and operation of the polytechnic system.
The Project Objectives were relevant, clearly defined, and their direct linkage to the national policies
(NPE-86, industrial policy, technology policy, etc.) was very strong. Development of specific objectives
and implementation strategies by the Directorates of Technical Education (DTEs), with assistance from the
National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU) and the Technical Teachers Training Institutes (TTTIs),
contributed to the ownership of the project in most States. Within the overall scope of its development
objectives, the project provided enough flexibility to the States to make necessary changes in various
components over the seven year implementation period.
3.2 Revised Objective:
T1here was no change in the project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The Capacity Expansion Objective was to be achieved by: (a) introducing programs in new and emerging
technologies; (b) developing a limited number of new polytechnics; (c) establishing programs of continuing
education; and (d) expanding programs aimed at women and the rural and informal sectors.
The Quality Improvement Objective was to be achieved by: (a) strengthening teacher education and
training programs at state-level staff development centers; (b) establishing curriculum development and
research programs; (c) modernizing laboratories and workshops and replacing obsolescent equipment at
polytechnics; (d) instituting maintenance programs and improving internal revenue generation; and (e)
initiating faculty development programs for polytechnic teachers.
The Efficiency Improvement Objective was to be achieved by: (a) strengthening the administration and
management of the State Directorates and Boards of Technical Education; (b) granting autonomy to a
selected number of polytechnics; and (c) establishing Industry-Institute interaction programs at
polytechnics.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no revision of project components. With the approval of the Government of India (GOI) and
IDA, the Union Territory of Pondicherry was added to the project in October 1992. Some physical targets
were revised after the mid-term review.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Assessment of quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) is not available. The ICR Review
Mission's rating of 'satisfactory' is based on the quality of design, consistency with government priorities,
- 2 -



and for making right assumptions about the capacity of the GOI to plan and implement such a
comprehensive program.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project Review Aide-memoires report steady achievement of objectives with accelerated progress
during the last 2-3 years. This was confirmed through visits to random polytechnics, discussions with
stake holders, beneficiary groups, principals and state officials. Most States reached, and some even
surpassed, output targets. Annex I summarizes achievement of the project States. Some of the major
outcomes of the project include:
* Availability of over 8000 technicians (with diploma/post-diploma) per year trained in 87 new and high
technology areas of relevance to industry.
* Availability of over 30,000 better trained technicians graduating every year in conventional disciplines.
* About 100% improvement in women participation in technician education and work-force.
* Significant increase (from 23.0% to 46.7% against a target of 31.7%) in participation of students from
rural areas.
* Improved capability of the polytechnics to serve industry as well as rural community.
* Institution of a system of continuous improvement in program content, flexibility and its relevance to
industry.
* Availability of some 12000 trained teachers; and institution of a system of staff development.
*   Over 50% improvement in student performance (pass rate improved from 46% to 75%; dropout rates
decreased from 8.0% to 4.6%; and employment/self employment within six months of graduation
improved from 45% (pre-project) to 65%).
* Growing percentage of graduates entering self-employment due to promotion of entrepreneurial and
communication skills.
*   Growing capacity of polytechnics to develop learning material and multi-media packages.
* Willing participation of industry in the development and management of technician education.
* Increasing self-reliance of polytechnics through enhanced delegated authority to principals, autonomy
to selected polytechnics, and encouragement for revenue generation.
* Institution of a culture of self-maintenance of facilities and equipment.
* Significant reduction in wastage of resources through better management of the system at all levels.
* Successful initiation of some major policy reforms in technician education leading to a discussion on
systemic reforms on a much larger scale.
The recently approved National Policy Initiative on Technician Education is another major outcome of
project interventions. This Initiative lays emphasis on greater self-reliance of polytechnics and partnership
with industry and community in management and financing of polytechnics.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. The Capacity Expansion Objective has been fully achieved with targets exceeded in some
sub-components and minor shortfall in one as follows:
(i)   A total of 235 (against the target of 234) new Diploma Courses, and 54 (of 57) new
Post-Diploma Courses in 87 new and emerging areas have been introduced, creating 24350 student
places against the target of 21460 seats.
(ii)  All 9 new Co-educational Polytechnics, 11 new Women Polytechnics and 5 new Wingsfor
Women in co-ed Polytechnics have been established as planned. Women enrollment in project
- 3 -



polytechnics increased from 14.7% (pre-project) to 28.4% of the total enrollment.
(iii) Against a target of 7 Continuing Education Centers and 94 Continuing Education Cells, 8
Centers and Il l  Cells have been established. Some 48,400 industrial workers benefited from these
Continuing Education Programs against the SAR target of 24500.
(iv) A total of 33 (of 54) Community Polytechnics Wings in Maharashtra, Punjab, West Bengal and
Delhi have been established under the project. These are performing a wide range of technical
assistance activities for rural community. The remaining 21 conmmunity polytechnic wings are also
established and functioning under a GOI scheme. A total of 25,000 persons from rural areas trained
through existing and new community polytechnic wings in polytechnics.
(v)  All States except Assam fully achieved their targets for creating additional hostel places. This
resulted in additional 7266 places for women students and 3037 places for boys. In addition, 1271
faculty and staff residences are also added.
B. The targets for Quality Improvement Objectives have generally been met and even exceeded for a
few sub-components:
(i)   A total of 13 (of 15) Curriculum Development Centers have been established as planned. Two
centers were dropped after the Mid-Term Review. These Centers have developed curricula for all new
courses and have revised all curricula for existing courses.
(ii)  Against the original target of 35 polytechnics where program flexibility through multi-point entry
and credit system (MPECS) was to be introduced, 44 polytechnics now offer this flexibility.
(iii) All the I 1 StaffrDevelopment Centers and 155 (against a target of 42) cells in the polytechnics
are functional. Over 23,000 staff-months of training has been organized, meeting 99% of targets for
the teaching staff. This included specially designed foreign training programs organized in 14 areas
identified by national level expert groups. However, training of laboratory and workshop staff has
lagged behind (70% staff trained) and may limit effective utilization of modem facilities. Attention to
their training during operational phase should be a priority.
(iv) All the new laboratories have been established and are functional. A total of 2558 workshops
and laboratories (against the original target of 800) have been modernized. The pace of
modernization of existing laboratories and workshops slowed down due to delays in equipment
procurement and completion of civil works. The students, teachers, and industry consider
modernization of laboratories to be a very significant factor contributing to quality.
(v)  Twelve (against the target of 14) Learning Resource Development Centers (LRDCs) and 247
(against 185) Learning Resource Utilization Cells have been established. The LRDC produced 1761
multi-media packages, 262 video programs, 4285 models and 824 manuals besides a large number of
slides and transparencies. Discussion with teachers and students confirmned the good quality of the new
materials developed by LRDCs. The students would welcome availability of more textbooks and
learning material, especially for the new courses.
(vi) The Banks' aide-memoires repeatedly expressed concern of the Bank on the slow progress in
appointing teaching staff The concerns were equally shared by the Ministry of Human Resource
Development (MHRD) and resulted in progress. Towards the end (August 1999), 89% of the 2298
key additional posts were filled, although 25% of these were still filled on contract/ad-hoc basis.
-4 -



(vii) Against planned 188 Computer Centers, 244 have been established in polytechnics. The
students, during stakeholder's workshops, emphasized the importance of computer skills and requested
continued support to these centers.
C. Most of the Efficiency Improvement Objectives have been achieved. The status is summarized
below:
(i) To facilitate Industry-Institute Interaction, 19 State-level Centers and 233 polytechnic-level
Cells have been established as planned. These are contributing to the quality of training of students in
polytechnics with wide variations in effectiveness. While many polytechnics in less industrialized
locations are still having only limited interaction, industrial visits by students and teachers, campus
interviews, and frequent guest lectures by experts from the industry are on the increase. Efforts of some
polytechnics in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have led to far reaching cooperation through innovations.
These include establishment of Corporate Schools (learning facilities setup by the industry in a
polytechnic) and experimentation with the Caretaker Industry concept. These developments go beyond
expectations in the SAR and indicate that meaningful cooperation with the industry is feasible. While
no major breakthroughs in employer participation in management and financing of training activities is
visible, except in industry- sponsored polytechnics, a National Policy Initiative on Technician
Education, developed during the last phases of the project, is expected to accelerate the partnership
with Industry. Inadequacy of staff in Industry Institute Interaction Cells (often teachers are assigned
additional duty for this work) limits the implementation potential of this important sub-component.
(ii) The cautious approach and even hesitation in granting autonomy to polytechnics experienced in
the previous project eased up a little and resulted in grant of autonomy to 36 polytechnics against the
SAR target of 26. The degree and nature of autonomy, however, is varied. While Maharashtra and
Punjab have given academic, financial and administrative autonomy to selected polytechnics, Andhra
Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu have granted academic autonomy. Other States are still considering
the proposals.
(iii) This project has shown great potential in Internal Revenue Generation (IRG) through student
fees, continuing education and services rendered by polytechnics to industry during the last two years.
Maharashtra has given outstanding performance with total IRG amounting to about Rs. 340 million.
This represents about 45% of total IRG in the project or about 18.4% of annual recurrent expenditure
on project polytechnics in Maharashtra. The project average was 8.2% of the recurring cost and the
States anticipate considerable improvements when appropriate policies are in place.
(iv) The establishment of 8 (of 12) Maintenance Centers in State and Maintenance Cells in 239
(against 198) Polytechnics would ensure adequate maintenance and use of equipment in polytechnics.
The major change in targets was in the state of Andhra Pradesh, which decided to establish
maintenance cells in all 56 project polytechnics instead of only 4 state-level centers and 8 cells in
polytechnics.
Some Unanticipated Project Results:
In addition to achieving their project objectives, some States have successfully experimented with
innovations on a pilot scale. These include:
*   Development of competency based curricula and sandwich programs,
*   Development of muti-media self-learning packages for students,
- 5 -



*   Establishment of production centers,
*   Networking of institutions with lead centers for knowledge and facility sharing,
*   Special facilities for the physically disabled,
*   Special provisions, including bridge courses/exclusive polytechnics, for disadvantaged groups
(scheduled castes/scheduled tribes/other backward classes),
*   Special assistance in placement of women students,
*   Introduction of caretaker industry concept, corporate schools, etc.
*   Development of highly informative Websites on technical education in the States.
These go beyond the scope of the project.
4.3 Net Present Value/lEconomic rate of return:
The anticipated economic rate of return was not calculated during the preparations for this complex project
which has a variety of components. There are several indications, however, that the project overall has
been a cost effective intervention.
Over a ten year period the project facilities would graduate about 400,000 students at an investment cost of
about $700 per graduate (about $220 per student year) based on the total project cost of US$ 280 million
including investment in new places and upgrading of existing capacity.
A total of 24,350 additional student places were created in new polytechnics and in new courses in existing
polytechnics. Typically the international cost is US$ 10,000 - 15,000 per place for this level. The cost per
new place provided by the project is estimated at US$ 3575.
The minimum estimates for IRG exceed Rs. 300 million (current income) per year and this could amount to
additional resources amounting to US$ 70.0 million equivalent over a ten year period.
The internal efficiency of institutions has increased measurably with the dropout rate almost halved and the
pass rate improved from 46% to 75%; the average number of years taken to produce a successful student
has fallen from 3.7 years to 3.2 years.
The external efficiency of the sector also appears to have improved with the employment rate (defined as
employment/self employment within 6 months of graduation) increasing from 45% to 65%.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not estimated.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated as substantial as all existing project polytechnics have been
fully upgraded as planned and all new polytechnics are fully functional. Curriculum Development Centers
and Cells, Learning Resource Development Centers and Cells, Continuing Education Centers/Departments,
Staff Development Centers and Cells, Industry Institute Interaction Centers and Cells, Equipment
Maintenance Centers and Cells along with Internal Revenue Generation and training to key staff have
contributed to substantial quality improvement in polytechnics. These significant improvements in quality
and capacity would enable the polytechnics to more adequately address the changing skill requirement
according to market needs. The State Directorates and Boards of Technical Education are functioning with
well-trained staff, modem equipment and management information system. TIhey have demonstrated their
capability of handling large, diversified and complex systems. Most States have also initiated a process of
systemic reforms.
-6 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Rupee devaluation: With about 200% devaluation of the Indian Rupee against the SDR during
implementation, the project experienced availability of significant additional funds in equivalent rupees. A
part of the Credit was canceled at the request of GOI in 1993 after the first devaluation. Allocations to the
States in rupee terms were revised by the National Project Directorate (NPD) after the Mid-Term Review
and during the sixth year of the project with IDA approval. Although this helped the States to further
modernize their workshops and laboratories, it also created difficulties in some States to make timely
provision in their budget and ensure flow of funds.
Field Based Project Supervision: The presence of the IDA Task team in Delhi from 1995 facilitated
frequent consultations with the States and the GOI and enhanced the effectiveness of the Bank's role in
facilitating project implementation.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Policy Support: The project received full policy support at the national level through the Education
Secretary, the National Steering Committee, and the All India Board of Technician Education of the All
India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). The National Project Director, also being a Joint
Education Advisor (Technical) of MHRD for most period of project implementation, ensured coordination
between the sector polices and implementation.
State Commitmentfor Training of Women: All States adopted proactive policy actions to promote training
and employment of women. These included: (a) reservation of seats for women students in all polytechnics;
(b) establishment/ strengthening of polytechnics exclusively for women; (c) publicity of programs and
employment opportunities through mass media; (d) provision of hostels and transport facilities; (e)
provision of scholarships and tuition fee waivers; (f) gender sensitization training; (g) provision
guidance/counciling /placement services in polytechnics for women; (h) reservation of seats for
employment of women; (i) sensitization of industry to employ women. These measures helped many states
surpass their targets in enrollment of women with major success in Pondicherry (42%), Tamil Nadu
(40%), Punjab (35%), Andhra Pradesh (33%), Delhi (30%). In West Bengal, women enrolloment improved
from 4% (pre- Project) to 22%.
Project Ownership: The involvement of all 10 States/Union Territories in project preparation resulted in
full ownership of the project at the state-level. Most State Secretaries and Directors of Technical
Education provided the required leadership to ensure its success and to make a difference to the system as a
whole.
Staff Recruitment Delays: Significant delays in creation of posts, staff recruitment and training affected
quality of teaching adversely for 3-4 years in many States (in Tamil Nadu, key additional teaching
positions were created in the fifth year of the project). Most States filled the posts with contract/ad-hoc
appointees over extended duration due to (a) long recruitment cycle of the State Public Service
Commissions, (b) non-availability of qualified candidates in new areas and against posts reserved for
disadvantaged groups, and (c) un-attractive pay scales and working conditions in polytechnics, particularly
those located in rural and remote areas. With repeated reminders from GOI and IDA, the staffing position
did improve during the last two years of the project. By August 1999, The States of Andhra Pradesh,
Assam, Haryana, Himachal, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Delhi reduced their vancancies in key
additional staff as well as pre-project faculty positions to less than 10%. In Pondicherry, Punjab and Tamil
-7 -



Nadu, however, over 22% key additional teaching posts remained vacant.
Flow of Funds: As per the existing practice in India, all the States were required to first provide the project
allocations in their annual budget, incur expenditure and then seek disbursements. The disbursed amounts
were deposited back to the State Treasuries - often with no intimation to the project implementation units.
Due to their precarious fiscal conditions, some States (Assam, in particular) could not ensure regular flow
of funds to the project. There were also procedural problems of flow of funds to the central procurement
agencies. This situation resulted in major delays in works and equipment procurement. On the other hand,
the States like Maharashtra, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh, which adopted a proactive approach and
provided additional funds to the implementing agencies ended up utilizing over 200% of their initial
allocations and thus helped major development of their polytechnics.
Financial Management: With the project activities spread over more than 250 locations and accounts
maintained for different activities by different agencies, the accounting, disbursement and financial audit
posed major difficulties. Absence of computerized accounting systems added to the problems. Some SPIUs
took 4-5 months to file their disbursement claims after incurring expenses. This problem persisted till the
end and some claims could not reach IDA before closing of the Credit.
Credit Amendments. The project experienced the following amendments to the Credit Agreements: (a)
addition of the Union Territory of Pondicherry from October 1992; (b) support for activities of the TTTIs
and NPIU (earlier supported under Technician Education Project I); (c) increase in the limit of procurement
under National Competitive Bidding for equipment from September 1998; (d) reallocation of Credit
amounts under different categories of expenditure on June 6, 1999; and (e) extension of the Closing Date
by four months to October 31, 1999.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Interactive Monitoring and Reviews: Frequent state/regional/national level workshops, joint reviews with
the Bank, publication of newsletters and compilation of detailed project reports provided professional
exchange of information and encouraged competition among the States. The NPIU and SPIUs ensured
significant involvement of the industry in reviews and policy formulation.
Professional support from TTTIs and NPIU: The four regional Technical Teachers' Training Institutes
and the NPIU played a crucial facilitating role in project implementation. Their vast pool of professionals
along with other experts available in India were fully involved in strategy formulation and evaluation
studies. Some examples include tracer studies, evaluation of staff development programs, regular
formative evaluation of project outcomes, preparation of strategy papers, and a series of seminars for
project staff in the States. These activities provided valuable feedback on the basis of which project
interventions were refined.
Start-up Delays: Most SPIU officials and state agencies were not familiar with Bank procedures. With
frequent changes in senior officials in some States this problem persisted. Technical assistance by the
Bank, especially formal training in procurement and disbursement procedures to the SPIU staff at an early
stage, could have accelerated Project implementation.
Technical Assistance: Although the local training targets are generally met or surpassed, foreign training
was underutilized by 25% due to a 3 year delay in commencement of such training. The provisions for
foreign experts were also not utilized -- instead the States depended on national/local experts available at
very nominal cost. While the project provided for this flexibility and the States used it to advantage, an
opportunity to bring a much larger number of faculty and education administrators in contact with experts
- 8 -



from abroad to learn from their experience was missed.
Procurement of Works: Civil works at all project polytechnics (including 38 new campuses and 186
extensions) have been completed as planned. However, there were wide variations in the completion time
for works in project States. The average delays ranged from 5 months (Delhi, Tamil Nadu) to 24 months
(Pondicherry Assam). Similarly, costs of construction varied between Rs. 4,000 per square meter (in
Haryana, Punjab, and Tamil Nadu) to about Rs. 9,000 per square meter (Assam). Majority of works were
entrusted to State Departments with some 26% executed by Public Sector Undertakings which performed
much better. In some States, the State Project Implementation Units had little control on the pace of
construction. This difficulty was further compounded by the multiple State level approvals required before
inviting bids and then finalizing a contract. The State-Level Empowered Committees took some time in
being effective in providing single window clearances and quick decisions to expedite works.
Procurement of Equipment: The project involved procurement of a large variety of equipment for different
programs at 249 polytechnics spread over the ten project States/Union Territories. This involved major
coordination efforts for all centralized procurements. Both the central agencies (initially DGS&D and later
on COFMOW) failed in varying degrees to organize procurement in a timely manner. Their complex
procedures requiring multi-level approvals and lack of computer support did not suit the procurement
requirement for the large number and variety of items needed by institutions. This resulted in change of
agency midway. Even the second agency, COFMOW was unable to procure vital equipment during the
later stages of the project and returned the indents to States/NPIU. Due to this, a four-month extension of
the closing date became necessary to complete the planned procurement. The States, however, proved
effective in procurement of equipment and were successful in procuring a major share of equipment under
the project. Reliance on more state-level procurement could have resulted in timely procurement,
installation, and utilization of equipment for training.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost at appraisal was estimated as US$ 362.10 million (Rs. 8252.21 million equivalent) of
which IDA was to finance SDR 213.5 million (JS$ 307.1 million equivalent). Significant increase in the
availability of credit funds in rupee terms due to about 200% devaluation of the Indian Rupee during the
project period was offset by: (a) cancellation of credit worth SDR 35.7 rnillion (about US$ 50 million) in
1993 at the request of GOI after the first major devaluation; (b) inclusion of Pondicherry in the project; (c)
increase in the level and number of laboratories, computer centers, workshops, and libraries to be
modernized; (d) increase in the number of hostel places for women; (e) high rate of inflation over extended
duration; and (f) significant revision in pay-scales of project staff and teachers. At the end of the project,
the undisbursed balance of SDR 8.57 million (about US$ 11.24 million) was canceled. The final cost of
the project was US$ 280.32 million (Rs. 10850 million equivalent).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is highly likely. The Government fully understands that India's future
competitiveness in the technology intensive global economy is to a large extent dependent on the nation's
ability to establish and maintain a base of manpower with strong technical skills. Thus, the Government
remains focused and attentive not only to the sustainability of this project but to the overall development
needs of the polytechnic system as it has proved to be an important supplier of trained manpower to
industry. The allocations under the Ninth Five-Year Plan indicate that there is no reason to expect this
commitment to waver in the near future.
9-



Another reason for the above stated optimism about sustainability is the strong relationship with the
industry developed during project implementation. One of the major project gains is the increasing
cooperation with the industry. Some examples are: (a) a National Policy Initiative on Technical Education,
prepared by a panel of experts with active participation from the industry has been finalized and approved
by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). This goes much beyond the anticipated scope
of work under Industry-Institute interaction expected under the project and is likely to establish a lasting
partnership with the industry in the management and financing of polytechnics; (b) innovative patterns of
cooperation between polytechnics and industry are emerging - corporate schools, caretaker industry,
funding self-financing programs, establishing hi-tech laboratories - represent some new trends in the
success stories; (c) continuing education programs, participation in curriculum development through
membership of academic boards, campus interviews, and a large variety of other cooperative actions
through memoranda of understanding are on the increase and provide a strong basis for improving
relationship; and (d) Internal Revenue Generation is on the increase and at approximately Rs. 300 million
does not appear to have peaked yet and could provide 20-25% of the recurrent costs in most States after
about six years.
An important element which could affect long- term sustainability of the project gains and quality of
technician education is the system's limited ability to attract and retain qualified teaching staff. This has
been a problem during project implementation and would remain a major challenge in the years to come,
particularly for polytechnics located in remote or rural areas. Continuation of some of the measures taken
during the project (training, provision of housing, and encouragement of faculty participation in
consultancy, continuing education, etc.) would help. The States would also need to consider other options
including: appointment of adjunct/ part-time faculty from industry, utilization of post-diploma students as
teaching assistants, use of multi-media self-learning packages and distance education, networking of
institutions, etc.(as indicated in a recent sector study on Scientific and Technical Manpower Development
in India). The issue of faculty shortage would need to be addressed on priority by all States, MHRD and
the AICTE.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
(a)  At the ICR mission, all project States presented their Operational Plans for transition arrangements
and confirmed availability of funds for incomplete components (e.g., remaining equipment installation and
minor works). The State Secretaries were very positive about sustainability. The States reported an
allocation for polytechnics of about Rs. 3400 million which includes all transition-operation arrangements.
Most project interventions (Curriculum Development Centers, Maintenance Centers, Industry-Institute
Interaction Centers/Cells, Computer Centers, Learning Resource Development Centers) would continue to
contribute to quality improvement.
The detailed Operational Plans containperformance indicators which have been carefully prepared. While
indicators for all 19 components are important, the Bank recommends special attention to the following (the
performance indicators are not being stated as they are available in the ICR file):
* filling up vacancies (regular appointment of all teaching staff);
* female enrollment (percentage enrollment, pass and employment rate);
* new diploma/post-diploma programs (pass rate and employment rate);
* Industry-Institute Interaction (campus interviews, training in industry, industry involvement in
academic and management processes); and
* internal revenue generation (policy and revenue of each state).
(b) The GOI has requested the Bank to support another operation which, among other things, would
10 -



consolidate major new thrusts of this project and support development of centers of excellence in the
project States. This ICR review recommends a follow-up project to consolidate major institutional and
quality improvement thrusts which are new and still require support of a Bank Project. The next project
should also examine: (i) the possibility of decentralization of management and more initiative to
polytechnics, (ii) improved pattern of financial support to project States and polytechnics; and (iii)
alternatives for procurement of works and equipment.
Another project (Third Technician Education) covering polytechnics in the geographically remote, and
industrially and economically underdeveloped States of the north-eastern region, Jammu & Kashmir and
Andaman & Nicobar Islands (which were not covered by the two Technician Education Projects) is under
finalization. This project builds on many innovations attempted in the Technician Education I and II
Projects.
(c)  The Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED) participated in the ICR Mission and has
conducted an independent Subsectoral Review and Audit of the completed four Technical-Vocational
Education and Training (TVET) projects in India. OED's participation provided an institutional learning
perspective and a separate report is under publication. This report makes a comparative analysis and
makes many important recommendations for the future developments in the subsector.
(d)  The Bank's sector study on Scientific and Technical Manpower Development in India, nearing
publication, makes many important recommendations which are also applicable to polytechnics. GOI and
project States may wish to consider these for further development of the system.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Ministry of Human Resource Development and the States appreciated the Bank's role in the
preparation and appraisal of a complex project which was fully consistent with the GOI's strategy in the
Ten-Year Investment program according to the National Policy of Education -1986. The Bank preparation
as well as appraisal teams rightly recognized the expertise of TTTIs and the competent local teams
assembled by the MHRD and the States and ensured their full participation in the preparation of Detailed
Project Reports (DPRs) for each polytechnic and technical assistance in project implementation. These
measures enhanced project ownership by the States and polytechnics. Early lessons from the Vocational
Training (Cr. 2008-IN) and Technician Training (Cr. 2130-IN) Projects, especially in the areas of
procurement planning, were taken into consideration which resulted in some improvement in the
procurement of equipment and works. The Appraisal Team, however, underestimated the difficulties in
many States in creating andfilling up so many teaching posts in a time-boundfashion, as also the
problems in centralized procurement. Slow achievement in these project activities, in an otherwise well
implemented project, delayed flow of benefits to students.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall Bank supervision was effective. Client satisfaction with the Bank's performance is high. Project
implementation was enhanced by joint reviews with the National Project Director. The Bank identified
emerging problems and tried to resolve them during the joint review missions before they could develop a
negative impact on the project. With the transfer of the task management responsibility to the New Delhi
office during the last four years, the Bank's supervision became more responsive. It is also noted that Bank
missions were staffed with experienced Bank staff and consultants who understood the needs of the
country, technician education, and project implementation. There was little attrition in the staffing of this
team during the later half of the project. This consistency was appreciated by the project States and is
- 11 -



considered a positive factor in the success of the project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's perfortnance was Satisfactory because of its effective problem solving role detailed
above. "We could get good response to problems and the Bank's role was a major strength in
implementation" concluded one state Secretary on the Bank's role and this view was supported by many
others during the ICR mission.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Ministry of Human Resource Development should be complemented for presenting a very
comprehensive and complex project in an acceptable form and should also be credited with its fast
processing. The project covered all aspects of technician education and included special measures to cover
women and weaker sections of society. It was well coordinated with the States and had clearly defined
programs to support achievement of project objectives.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The National Project Director, with support from MHRD officials at the highest levels, provided effective
leadership in addressing issues in States (e.g., appointment of teaching staff, allocation of funds,
procurement of equipment) and in providing guidance and policy support. 'The MHRD's monitoring and
control also ensured that the States enjoyed flexibility in implementation according to specific needs. Some
States could however, be faulted for: (i) inadequate budget allocation of funds (Assam), (ii) State finance
requiring additional justification for project components already agreed during negotiations, (iii) project
funds given as advance by GOI being temporarily diverted for non-project programs, (iv) frequent changes
in senior officials, (v) delays in creation ofposts and appointment of key additional staff, and (vii) delays
in providing State-level policy support for implementing key project components (autonomy, program
flexibility, IRG).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Despite early difficulties brought on by a need to learn more about the Bank and its procurement
procedures, the SPIUs were able to quickly adjust with the policies and procedures to support the overall
coordination and implementation of the project. The NPIU performed very well in this coordination at the
national- level. The project implementation staff in the States was professionally qualified, motivated, and
cooperative, but lacked any prior experience in implementing World Bank assisted projects. This slowed
down implementation in the initial stages. Project progress and implementation problems were frankly
shared with the Bank staff. Excellent detailed reports, which highlighted problems and achievements, were
prepared for each review mission by the NPIU. The NPIU was effective in dealing with problems and
attempted to provide solutions in a timely fashion. The procurement and construction agencies could have
performed better to complete their tasks on time. The SPIUs should have also maintained their accounts
and records better to facilitate timely disbursements and audit. All covenants have been complied with
fully or in a manner acceptable to IDA. The allocation of credit proceeds to States and for various
components followed the criteria agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. Most States submitted audit
reports in time throughout the implementation period.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. The MHRD provided effective leadership and
coordination, and the collective efforts of the State-Secretaries, Directors, and SPIUs resulted in a highly
successful project.
- 12 -



8. Lessons Learned
This project is similar to Technician Education I (Cr. 2130-In), and its implementation closely followed this
project. The lessons learned are, therefore, very similar. Following is a summary of key lessons learned:
*   It is possible for even a very complex multi-state project to be successful with full ownership and
commitment of the States along with policy support from the Center.
*  Effective central coordination, recognition of good performance, evaluation studies and sharing the
problems and possible solutions through workshops promote healthy competition between
States/institutions and facilitate responsive management.
*  Industry would be willing to participate in manpower development in an appropriate supportive policy
environment.
*  Women and disadvantaged groups of society have a keen desire to enter new areas if suitable
opportunities are created for them.
*   It is prudent to take timely action against any major/anticipated changes due to large exchange-rate
fluctuations. In such a situation, it is even more important to maintain appropriate records and a
system for timely flow of funds and disbursements.
•  A more systematic and timely release of project funds as a line allocation to the project account, and
not lumped with overall departmental allocation in the State budgets, would have reduced delays in
civil works and procurement.
*  With the current emphasis on decentralization, more Bank attention should be given to local
implementers. Technical assistance should be provided by the Bank and the Borrower to these
implementors at an early stage.
*  Field-based supervision with close interaction with the Borrower and project beneficiaries proved to be
very effective and economical.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments of Prof. Ashoka Chandra, Special Secretary, Department of Secondary Education and Higher
Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development, New Delhi:
Quote:
We are pleased to note that the World Bank has rated the outcome, sustainability and impact of the project
as excellent. We have, however, a few observations to make. Our view is that both the Bank's
performance and borrower performance were "Highly Satisfactory", since almost all academic and physical
targets have been achieved. The shortfall in financial target achievement is only 1.13% and disbursement
5%. In a project of high variety and complexity, this level of achievement is exemplary. We, therefore,
feel that the rating for Bank and borrower performance be given as 'Highly Satisfactory' instead of
'Satisfactory'.
Similarly, Annexure-5, indicates ratings for objectives/outputs. We suggest reconsideration of some of
- 13 -



these ratings also. As you are aware, a Sector Policy for Technical Education was formulated by the
Government of India and a Sector Document by the World Bank, during the Second Project. In view of
these achievements, we feel that rating should have been "High" instead of '"Substantial". Further, due to a
fall in the value of the Rupee, the project amount increased to almost twice its value. In these
circumstances, expending twice the initially planned amount was an excellent achievement by the project
states. The shortfall in disbursement was only of about 8 million SDRs or 5% of the total value at the end
of the project, which is insignificant. Therefore, the rating "Substantial" in finance, needs to be
reconsidered and made "High".
The participation in rural development increased from 23% to 46.7%, in spite of two States/Union
Territories being totally urban in nature. This achievement in providing access to the disadvantaged groups
merits a "High" rating, instead of "Substantial".
Similarly, in Annexure - 6, in the backdrop of excellent achievements, the bank and borrower performance
merits to be rated as "Highly Satisfactory" instead of the present rating "Satisfactory".
We would like to place on record, the Government of India's deep sense of appreciation for the support
provided to the project by the World Bank. We would also like to thank the team who prepared the draft
Implementation Completion report for highlighting the achievements under the project and for their
excellent rating of outcome, sustainability and impact of the project. In particular, the support and
co-operation extended by Prof. S. K. Shrivastava and his colleagues, is gratefully acknowledged.
Unquote:
- 14 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
The following Bank staff were associated with project preparation and implementation:
Task leader/manager: Richard Cambridge (1989-92); Damianos Odeh (92-94); Othello Gongar (1994-95),
Niall Corwell (1995-96), Adriaan Verspoor (1996), Shashi K. Shrivastava (1997-2000).
Team members: Eid Dib, Erwin Siegal, Anita Nazrath, Yogendra Saran, G.S. Chandran, S.A.A. Alvi,
Rajiv Aggarwal, Mam Chand, K. Venkataraman, S.Krishnan, S. Subramanian, Rajat Narula, S.
Radhakrishna, Renu Gupta, Gertrude Cooper.
The Project preparation and implementation team of the Government of India were led by:
National Project Director: Shashi K. Shrivastava (1989-92), R.K.Sinha(1992-93), S.D.Awale (1993-94),
D.P. Agrawal (1994-1999), Satindar Singh (1999-2000).
Central Project Advisor, NPIU: C.R.K.Sastri (1989-93), G.S. Chandran (1993-94), R. Bhatia (1994-95),
K.B. Raina (1995-98), R.K. Mani (1998-2000).
The ICR mission and the OED learning audit mission were conducted in October 1999, jointly with the
GOI Team.
The ICR is prepared by Yogendra Saran, G.S.Chandran, S.A.A.Alvi, and Shashi K. Shrivastava
The ICR is reviewed by: Grant Sinclair, Richard Skolnik, Kevin Casey (RPA), D. Mead (LEGSA),
William B. Marke (LOAAS), Helen Abadzi (OED)
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
JndlcatovlfPatrtr                                       0XeI  I lastS   ActualLatestEsite
CAPACITY EXPANSION
Training of polytechnic graduates in new  Train 21460 students every year in 89 new   Capacity created to enroll upto 24350
technology areas                     technology areas                      students in 87 new technology areas
Increased participation of women in technical No target specified in the SAR  Women enrollment increased from 14.7%
education                                                                  (pre-project) to 28.4% at end of project
Training of rural students           Training of about 12500 persons in informal About 25000 persons from rural arteas
and rural sector; increase in rural student   trained through community polytechnic
enrollment to 31.7%                  wings; percentagfe of rural students
enrollment increased to 46.7%
Providing continuing education       Train about 24500 persons through     About 48400 persons trained during the
continuing education programs        project
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
Improved quality of teachers         Train about 5800 teachers              11862 teachers trained
Improved quality and relevance of all  Revise all existing curricula and develop  All cumcula revised once every five years.
programs                             curricula for all new program         Curricula for all new programs developed
with industry participation
Improved employment of polytechnic   Increase average employment rate of   Average employment rate of graduates
graduates                            graduates from 45% (pre-project) to 65%    improved to 58% and self employment to
within six months of graduation      7.5%
EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT
Improved performance of students     Improve average pass rate to about 80%  Average pass rate improved from 46% to
and reduce average dropout rate to 5.5%  75.3% and dropout rate reduced from 8.0%
to 4.6%
Improved performance of Directorates and   Manage a a large and diverse system more  Capadty created for handling very complex
other state units                    efficiently                           projects and systems; time taken to publish
results reduced from average 8 weeks
(pre-project) to 4.5 weeks; corresponding
increase in contact days for teaching
Improved linkage with industry       Industry to have greater involvement in  Some 40,000 students benefitted through
training of students and teachers; program   industrial visits, industrial projects, expert
selection and design; polytechnics to  lectures, campus interviews, etc.; about 2000
undertake projects , training of industrial    teachers and staff trained in industry;
workers (no targets specified).      industry participating in policy making,
program selection and design and in
management of autonomous institutions;
about 48000 industrial workers from 1800
industres trained by polytechnics
Improved self- reliance of polytechnics  Polytechnics to generate greater income;    Most polytechnics generating additional
polytechnics to have greater freedom  revenue by services to industry; all
polytechnic prncipals have additional
powers; 36 polytechnics granted autonomy
Policy reforms                       Support policy reforms indicated in the  NPE-86 reforms supported. In addition a
National Policy on Education-1 986   National Policy Initiative for Technician
Education formulated and approved by GOI;
a number of new innovations attempted in
project States
The figures denote average values for all project States. For the end of project targets, SAR figures are taken
where available
Output Indicators:
- 16 -



indkcatorfMattxl                   Prjected In last PSRAcaLatest Es|tat
CAPACITY EXPANSION:
Introducing programs in new technology -   Introduce 234 (57) diploma and 57(32) post  235 (57) diploma and 54 (32) post diploma
Number (type)                         diploma courses                       courses introduced
Developing new co-educational polytechnics Establish 9 new polytechnics     All 9 new polytechnics established
Expanding training opportunities for women  Establish 9 residential polytechnics and 6    11 residential polytechnics for women and 5
wings for women                       wings established; all 'boys' polytechnics
converted into co-educational
Expanding programs for rural and informal   Establish 54 community polytechnic wings in 33 community polytechnic wings established-
sector                                existing polytechnics                 remaining also established by the States with
GOI support
Continuing education programs, required by  Establish 7 state centers and 42 continuing  8 State centers and 111 continuing
industry                              education departments/cells           education departments/cells established
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
Teacher training                      Establish 10 staff development centers and  11 staff development centers and 155 cells
41 cells                              established
Curriculum development                Establish 15 Curriculum Development   13 Curriculum Development Centers
Centers; develop a system for the continuous established; a system for the continuous
upgrading and renewal of all curriculum  upgrading and renewal of all curriculum is
established in all States
Modemization of equipment and facilities    Modemize 800 laboratories and workshops  2558 Laboratories and workshops
at about 230 polytechnics, and establish 188 modernized in 229 polytechnics; 244
computer centers                      computer centers established
Introduction of flexibility in programs  Introduce muftipoint entry and credit system   Multipoint entry and credit system introduced
in 35 polytechnics                   in 44 polytechnics
Leaming resources development and     Establish 11 learning resource development 12 leaming resource development centers
utilization                           centers and 248 leaming resource user cells and 247 leaming resource user cells
established; leaming packages, models,
video programs being produced
EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT
Strengthening management and           Strengthen State Directorates, Boards of   All State Directorates, Boards of Technical
administration of technician education  Technical Education and SPIUs with   Education and SPIUs with qualified
system                                qualified additional key staff to manage  additional staff; system being managed more
effectively a large and diversified polytechnic effectively
system
Expanding institutional autonomy      Grant autonomy to 26 selected polytechnics  Substantial autonomy granted to 36 selected
to respond to the needs of industry   polytechnics
Developing maintenance capacity       Establish 12 state-level maintenance centers 8 State level maintenance centers and 239
and 196 maintenance cells to maintain  maintenance cells established; facilities and
facilities and equipment              equipment being largely maintained by
polytchnics themselves
Forging stronger linkages with industry  Create about 240 industry- institute  252 industry-institute- interaction
interaction centers/cells for improved  centers/cells established
exposure of students and teachers to
industrial experience
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Comronent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Programs in New Technology                               42.12             36.11          85.72
New Co-ed Polytechnics                                   25.24             21.92          86.85
Programs in Continuing Education                          9.31              7.76          83.33
Community Polytechnics                                    8.32              7.06          84.85
Women's Polytechnics                                     33.63             29.01          86.27
Student & Faculty housing                                38.40             33.22          86.51
Teacher training                                         17.07             14.44          84.57
Curriculum Development                                    2.61              2.24          85.92
Equipment and Facilities improvement                    111.03             97.27          87.61
Maintenance Cells                                         7.44              6.34          85.15
Strengthening Directorates of Technical Education        17.80             15.03          84.44
Grant of Autonomy                                         1.52              1.30          85.52
Promoting Industry- Institute-Interaction                10.28              8.62          83.85
Total Baseline Cost                                     324.77           280.32
Physical Contingencies                                  28.90
Price Contingencies                                      8.43
Total Project Costs                362.10           280.32
Total Financing Required                362.10            280.32
Note: The actual costs for each component includes physical and price contingencies. The final actual cost was
77.41% of the Appraisal estimates including contingencies. These figures are estimated by the NPIU based on the
infonnation collected from the project States.
Pro ect Costs by Procurement Arran ements (A raisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          74.42         60.88         0.00          135.30
(0.00)       (66.98)       (53.22)       (0.00)        (120.20)
2. Goods                      53.50         47.91         25.59         0.00          127.00
(48.15)       (43.08)       (22.37)       (0.00)       (113.60)
3. Services                   0.00           0.00         9.80          0.00           9.80
(0.00)        (0.00)        (9.60)       (0.00)         (9.60)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00         90.00         0.00          90.00
(0.00)        0.00)        (63.70)       (0.00)        (63.70)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                      53.50         122.33        186.27         0.00         362.10
(48.15)      (110.06)      (148.89)       (0.00)       (307.10)
- 18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method~
Expenditure Category          PCBocurmrtt                                  N.BeF.       Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00            72.24          60.02           0.00          132.26
(0.00)         (65.32)        (53.44)         (0.00)        (118.76)
2. Goods                         28.91           56.94          18.52           0.00          104.37
(24.53)        (45.55)        (17.52)         (0.00)         (87.60)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00           6.72            0.00           6.72
(0.00)         (0.00)         (5.84)          (0.00)         (5.84)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           36.97           0.00           36.97
(0.00)         (0.00)         (24.34)         (0.00)         (24.34)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         28.91          129.18         122.23           0.00          280.32
(24.53)        (110.87)       (101.14)        (0.00)         (236.54)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
v Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units, and (iii) salaries of additional staff
and incremental operating costs of project polytechnics and state units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equlvalent)
Pereetagc of Apprasal
Appraisal Estimate            ActuaLatest Estimate
I.               IDA                      GIF.  mA            MA GOwV    ;oCo
Programs in new tech      36.53     10.12      0.00      29.44       6.67      0.00     80.6   65.9    0.0
New Co-ed Pobys           21.23      7.11      0.00       17.61      4.31      0.00     82.9   60.6   0.0
Programs in Cont. Edu     6.61       3.44      0.00       5.23       2.53      0.00     79.1   73.5    0.0
Community Polys           7.19       1.94      0.00       5.87       1.19      0.00     81.6   61.3    0.0
Women's Polys             32.36      5.12      0.00       27.13      1.88      0.00     83.8   36.7    0.0
Student & Faculty housing    38.98   3.92      0.00       31.18      2.04      0.00     80.0   52.0   0.0
Teacher Training          15.17      3.48      0.00       12.74      1.70      0.00     84.0   48.9    0.0
Curriculum Development    2.05       0.80      0.00       1.65       0.59      0.00     80.5   73.7   0.0
Eqpt & Facility          105.39     20.26      0.00       83.39      13.88     0.00     79.1   68.5    0.0
improvement
Maintenance Cells         5.16       3.04      0.00       4.02       2.32       0.00    77.9   76.3    0.0
Strengthening Directorates   13.05   6.33      0.00       10.57      4.46      0.00     81.0   70.5    0.0
Grant of Autonomy         1.22       0.43      0.00       1.04       0.26      0.00     85.2   60.5    0.0
Promoting Industry-       7.87       3.31      0.00       6.68       1.94      0.00     84.9   58.6   0.0
Institute Interaction
-19 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The anticipated economic rate of return was not calculated during the preparations for this complex project
which has a variety of components. There are several indications, however, that the project overall has
been a cost effective intervention.
Over a ten year period the project facilities would graduate about 400,000 students at an investment cost of
about $700 per graduate (about $220 per student year) based on the total project cost of $280 million
including investment in new places and upgrading of existing capacity.
A total of 24,350 additional student places were created in new polytechnics and in new courses in existing
polytechnics. Typically the international cost is $10,000 - 15,000 per place for this level. The cost per
new place provided by the project is estimated at $3575.
The minimum estimates for IRG exceed Rs. 300 million (current income) per year and this could amount to
additional resources amounting to US$70.0 million equivalent over a ten year period.
The internal efficiency of institutions has increased measurably with the dropout rate almost halved and the
pass rate improved from 46% to 75%; the average number of years taken to produce a successful student
has fallen from 3.7 years to 3.2 years.
The external efficiency of the sector also appears to have improved with the employment rate (defined as
employment/self employment within six months of graduation) increasing from 45% to 65%.
Some of the major benefits of the project are:
* Availability of over 8000 technicians (with diploma/post-diploma) per year trained in 87 new and high
technology areas of relevance to industry;
* Availability of over 30,000 better trained technicians graduating every year in conventional disciplines;
*  About 100% improvement in women participation in technician education and workforce;
* Significant increase in participation of students from rural areas;
*  Improved capability of the polytechnics to serve industry as well as rural community; and availability
of over 10,000 industrial workers and 6000 persons from rural areas trained every year through
continuing education programs/community polytechnic wings;
* Institution of a system of continuous improvement in program content, flexibility and its relevance to
industry;
*  Availability of some 12000 trained teachers; and institution of a system of staff development;
* Growing capacity of polytechnics to develop learning material and multi-media packages;
* Willing participation of industry in the development and management of technician education;
*   Increasing self-reliance of polytechnics through enhanced delegated authority to principals, autonomy
to selected polytechnics, and encouragement for revenue generation;
* Institution of a culture of self-maintenance of facilities and equipment; and
* Significant reduction in wastage of resources through better management of the system at all levels.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation         5   TL, ES, TE, EM, AR
06/88 - Identification
05/90 - Preparation           4   TL, TE, EM, AR
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/90 - Appraisal            4   TL, TE, EM, AR
2/91 - Negotiations           5   TL, EC, TE, AR, Lawyer, DO
Supervision
07/92                         4  TL, TE, AR, HRE                       S                 S
01/93                         3  TL, TE, EM                            S                 S
05/93                         3  TL, TE, EM                            S                 S
07/93                         3  TL, EC, AR, TE, EM, ES                S                 S
11/93                         6  TL, EC, AR, TE, EM, ES               S                 S
04/94                         4  TL, TE, AR, EM                        S                 S
08/94                         4  TL, TE, ES, AR                        S                 S
01/95                         5  TL, TE, EM, AR, EP                    S                S
08/95                         3  TL, TE, AR                            S                 S
03/96                         3  TL, TE, AR                            S                 S
09/96                         4  TL, ES, TE, AR                        S                 S
02/97                         3  TE, AR, ES                            S                S
08/97                         4  TL,TE,AR,ES                           S                 s
04/98                         4  TL, ES, AR, TE                        S                 S
04/99                         5  TL, ES, AR, TE, EP                    S                 S
ICR
10/99                        6   TL, ES, AR, TE, EP, OE               HS               HS
Note: AR - Architect, DO - Disbursement Officer, EM - Education Management Specialist, EP - Education
Planner, ES - Equipment Specialist, HRE - Human Resource Economist, OE - Operations Evaluator, TE -
Technical Educator, TL - Team Leader
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                84                         238
Appraisal/Negotiation                     36                         102
Supervision                              310                         565
ICR                                       28                          62
Total                                    458                         967
Staff weeks and costs estimated based on the available records/data.
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies
Z Sector Policies                          OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
Z Physical                                 OH OSUOM ON ONA
0 Financial                                OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
Z Institutional Development                O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
O Environmental
Social
C1 Poverty Reduction
? Gender                            OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)            OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
Rural Student Participation
OI Private sector development
FI Public sector management
El Other (Please specify)
-22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
I Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
FZ Supervision                                       OHS OS   OU   OHU
ER Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
F Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
F Government implementation performance              O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
2 Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS   O  U  O HU
F Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Government of India, National Policy on Education -1986 (modified in 1992).
2. Government of India, National Policy Initiatives on Technician Education, 1998.
3. National Project Implementation Unit, Progress Reports preparedfor Joint Reviews during
1992-1999.
4. National Project Implementation Unit, Operation Plans of Project States, 1999.
5. National Project Implementation Unit, Report of Implementation Completion Review, 1999.
6. Project Completion Reports presented by Project States.
7. Technical Teachers Training Institutes, Report of Sample Tracer Studies of Polytechnic Graduates in
Project States. 1999.
8. World Bank, Second Technician Education Project -- Staff Appraisal Report. Report No. 9043-IN.
1991.
9. World Bank, Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 2223-IN. 1991.
10. World Bank, Memorandum of the President, Report No. P 5448-IN. 1991.
11. World Bank, Project Agreement, Credit Number 2223-IN. 1991.
12. World Bank, Aide-Memoire of all review mission. 1992 to 1999.
13. World Bank, Project Summary Reports No. 1-17.
14. World Bank, Aide-Memoire and Project Summary Report of the Implementation Completion Review
Mission. 1999.
15. World Bank, Technician Education Project - Implementation Completion Report No. 19042, 1999.
16. World Bank, OED, India: A Review and Audit of Investments in Technical- Vocational Education,
Performance Audit Report (draft), 2000.
17. World Bank, SASED, Scientific and Technical Manpower Devlopment in India, A Sector Study (draft
report), 2000.
-24 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
The ICR mission held interactive sessions with sample beneficiary groups at New Delhi, Calcutta, Mumbai
and Hyderabad. The groups consisted of students and recently passed and employed polytechnic graduates
from diverse disciplines. Discussions were focussed on the impact of the project on teaching-learning
effectiveness, laboratory work, curricula, industrial training, placement services and links with industry.
Based on the views expressed by the beneficiaries during the first session held at New Delhi, a
questionnaire was designed and used at the remaining three centres to assess the importance attached to the
observations of participants and to elicit their views on further improvements during the operational phase.
The results are presented below. Observations of beneficiaries confirm that the developmental objectives of
the project have been substantially achieved.
RESULTS OF DISCUSSIONS WITH BENEFICIARY GROUPS
(STUDENTS, ALUMINI)
MAJOR OBSERVATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS
PROJECT                OBSERVATIONS ON               SUGGESTIONS FOR
PROVISIONS             PROJECT OUTCOME               SUSTENANCE/IMPROVEMENT
Modernization of       Laboratories have been        More laboratory staff training is needed
laboratories, workshops   modernized to a large extent.   for better utilization and maintenance of
equipment.
Updating of curricula  Curricula have been updated   More frequent curricular changes in tune
and are better now.          with changes in industrial practices will
be desirable.
Teacher training       Quality of teaching has       Teachers need more exposure to industrial
improved.                    practices.
Industrial training    Industrial training has helped    Polytechnics should assist in finding
in getting better job        places for industrial training.
placements.
Learning resources     Learning resources are now    Libraries should become more user
available to supplement books.  friendly. Text material for some new
courses not available.
Placement services     Campus interviews have        Industry should be made aware of the
helped in finding good jobs.  polytechnic courses, facilities etc. by a
proper marketing effort.
Links with industry    Projects in industry have made   More intensive interaction between
learning more interesting and    polytechnics and industry is required.
interactive.
- 25 -



BENEFICIARY SURVEY
SAMPLE COMPOSITION
BENEFICIARIES      NEW DELHI   CALCUTTA    MUMBAI    HYDERABAD
Students
Male                                  -           11           25
Female                 11            20            2            2
Alumni
Male                    3             -            2            8
Female                  3             4            2            2
TOTAL                   17           24           17           37
-26 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
The mission elicited views of stakeholder groups consisting of (a) industry representatives and (b)
principals, teachers and senior officials responsible for polytechnics, in four workshops organized at New
Delhi, Calcutta, Mumbai and Hyderabad. The groups at all centres were well represented. The exercise
was conducted through interactive sessions, in which a Mission member who acted as the moderator, posed
the problems in selected areas of project thrusts and encouraged participants to come out with observations
and suggestions. The areas focussed were:
*   Effectiveness of industry-institute interaction,
*   Labor market orientation of programs with special reference to curricula and flexibility,
* Internal revenue generation by polytechnics and its utilization for institutional development,
*   Continuing education programs,
*   Teacher training, and
*   Enhancing women's participation in polytechnic programs.
Major observations made by stakeholder groups and details about the sample of participants of the
workshops are given here.
Stakeholder Workshop Results
Observations and Suggestions
Project Thrust Areas                   Industry              Principals, Teachers, Officials
Effectiveness of             0 Conscious of its role as a key  * Industry should be well
Industry-Institute Interaction  stake holder. Satisfied with     represented in academic
the project initiatives.         bodies and should take
*  Considers that joint ventures    active part.
with industry can lead to     *  Regular meetings with
human and physical inputs       industry representatives and
from industry to polytechnics.   presentations about
*  Suggests annual audit of         development programs
curricula and teaching           would help.
methods jointly by industry
and polytechnics.
Internal revenue generation  * Polytechnics should be more    *  Poor policy support.
and its utilization             pro-active and market their   *  Inadequate financial
training programs and            incentives to teachers.
products.
Promoting continuing         * Industry needs short courses   * Limited incentives to faculty
education programs              in new technology areas.         to conduct programs.
* Not aware of modern facilities    *  Policy support needed for
available in polytechnics.       promoting continuing
education programs.
-27 -



Labor market orientation of  * By and large, products are   * Curricula are now being
curricula, programs and        acceptable. More frequent       updated once in 5 years
flexibility                    updating of curricula in     * Industry's view are
consultation with industry      considered.
desirable.
* Students should be
encouraged to develop the
ability to learn new things by
themselves.
Teacher training            * Industry exposure to faculty is   * Inadequate training facility
of utmost importance. They      in specialized areas.
should be given sabbatical   * Teacher training programs
leave to work in industry.      should be better defined.
Industry may offer stipends.
Enhancing participation of  * There is no bias against      * Problems in getting jobs.
women                          employing women. In the      * Bias against women in
prevailing situation, engaging  manufacturing related jobs
them on shop floor and late  * Policy support needed for
evening/ night shifts may not   enhancing women
be practical. More and more     participation.
women are now recruited.
Stakeholder Workshop Participants
Centre                               Number of Participants
Industry Representatives         Principals, Teachers
New Delhi                                5                              14
Calcutta                                 6                              16
Mumbai                                   9                              11
Hyderabad                                10                              9
Total                                    30                             50
- 28 -



The World Bank                                      New Delhi Office         Phone: (11) 4617241/ 4619491
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  70 Lodi Estate        Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION               New Delhi 110003         Mailing Address: P.O. Box 416
India                   Facsimile: (11) 4619393
November 11, 1999
Prof. Ashoka Chandra
Special Secretary, Department of Education
Ministry of Human Resources Development
Shastri Bhawan
New Delhi 1 10001
Dear Prof. Ashoka Chandra:
INDIA: Second Technician Education Project (CR. 2223-IN)
This letter is to express our thanks to you, the National Project Director, the State
Secretaries and Directors of Technical Education, the National Project Implementation
Unit, and the State Project Implementation Units for the kind assistance extended to the
IDA mission comprising Messrs. Shrivastava, Saran, Alvi, Aggarwal, Chandran and Ms.
Abadzi during the recent Implementation Completion Review mission for the Second
Technician Education Project. A copy of the aide-memoire is attached. We expect to
send the draft ICR for your comments by January 31, 2000. We would appreciate
receiving your completion report by mid-February 2000, which will be appended to the
ICR. While endorsing the mission's findings I want to compliment your team and the
States for the very satisfactory implementation and achievement of the development
objectives of the project.
With best regards,
Sincerely,
dwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
cc:    Mr. V. Govindarajan, Additional Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Finance, North Block, New Delhi
Headquarters: Washington, 0.C., U.S.A



Prof. Ashoka Chandra                      -2-                November lI, 1999
bcc: Distribution:
Messrs./Mmes. Chassard, Bhandari (SACIN); Penalver, Ahmed
(SARVP); Ahmed (SAROQ); Byrne (SARFM); Litvak (SARPS);
Zagha (SASPR); Ackermann (SASEN); Bennett (SASSD);
Krishnan, Vani (SACIF); Harbison, Heneveld, Shrivastava
(SASED)



INDIA
TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT II
(Credit 2223-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REVIEW MISSION
(October 4 - 23,1999)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Introduction
1. An IDA mission comprising Messrs. Shashi K. Shrivastava (Task team leader), Y. Saran
(Education specialist, Consultant), G.S. Chandran (Technical educator, Consultant), R. Aggarwal
(Architect, Consultant), and S.A.A.Alvi (Equipment Procurement Specialist, Consultant)
conducted the Implementation Completion Review of the Technician Education Project II, jointly
with a Government of India Team led by Professor Ashoka Chandra, Special Secretary in the
Department of Education. Ms. Helen Abadzi (Senior Evaluator) of the Operations Evaluation
Department of the World Bank also joined the mission to study investments in the vocational-
technical education and training sub-sector in India. Mr. E. Heneveld (India Education Team
Leader) participated in the opening discussions with the Department of Education and Mr. R.
Harbison ( Education Sector Director, South Asia Region) participated in the wrap-up meetings
with the State Secretaries/ Directors of Technical Education. The mission wishes to thank Mr.
Satinder Singh, National Project Director, and Professor R.K.Mani, Central Project Advisor,
National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), and their colleagues for their participation and
valuable inputs in discussions with the project States throughout the mission.
2. Shortly after assembling in New Delhi, the mission discussed the scope of work with Prof.
Chandra. The NPIU, in consultation with the IDA Task Team Leader, had planned a program of
visits and regional review meetings at New Delhi, Calcutta, Mumbai, and Hyderabad. The
mission also visited some project polytechnics and met with industry representatives, students,
alumni, teachers, and principals. The mission's proposal to organize stakeholders and
beneficiaries workshops at each location visited was welcomed and arrangements were promptly
made by the NPIU, concerned SPIUs and polytechnics.
3. The findings of this mission are preliminary and subject to further refinement and
endorsement by the Bank Management. These are based on the comprehensive progress report
prepared by the NPIU with inputs from ten State Project Implementation Units (SPIUs) and four
Technical Teachers Training Institutes (TTTIs), the project files, the mission's observations
from the institute visits, and the discussions during the meetings and workshops. The mission
gratefully acknowledges generous hospitality and the cooperation and professional assistance
rendered during the mission, in particular, by the States and institutes which hosted the regional
meetings and workshops.
Objectives
4. This is the second project in technical education sector in India financed by the International
Development Association (IDA). It is similar in scope and components to the Technician
Education I (Cr. 2130-IN, which closed on September 30, 1998), but covers a different set of 10
States and Union Territories (Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh,



2
Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Pondicherry, which joined the project a
year later). This project also supported specific policy reform derived from the National Policy
on Education which was formulated in 1986 (NPE -86) and the resulting Ten Year Technician
Education Investment Program. Its main objective was to make technician education (offered by
polytechnics) more responsive to the country's needs through the introduction of new technology
and training approaches in the project States . More specifically, the objectives were to:
(A)   expand the capacity of the technician education system;
(B)   improve the quality of polytechnic programs; and
(C)   enhance the efficiency of management and operation of the polytechnic system.
5. The project objectives were relevant, clearly defined, and their direct linkage to the national
policies (NPE-86 and the Ten Year Investment Program) was very strong. Development of
specific objectives and implementation strategies by the State Directorates of Technical
Education, with assistance from the TTTIs, contributed to the ownership of the project in most
States. Within the overall scope of its development objectives, the project provided enough
flexibility to the States to make necessary changes in various components over its
implementation period. The project became effective on January 29, 1992 and is scheduled to
close on October 31, 1999.
6. Objective-wise, the appraised financial allocations were - Capacity Expansion 49% (base
cost- Rs.2826 million), Quality Improvement 42% (Rs.2486 million) and Efficiency
Improvement 9% (Rs.533 million). Initial expenditure for the project was to be incurred through
State resources allocated to them under their respective five-year plans and all eligible expenses
were to be subsequently reimbursed by the GOI.
Project Progress Summary
7. The Project Review Aide-memoirs report steady achievement of physical targets with
excellent performance during the last year. Some targets were revised upwards during project
implementation in consultation with IDA. Their status is summarized below:
8. The Capacity Expansion Objective has been fully achieved with targets exceeding in some
sub-components and minor shortfalls in others as follows:
(a) A total of 235 (against the target of 234) new Diploma courses, and 54(of 57) Post-
Diploma courses in new and emerging areas have been introduced. The remaining
three courses (2 in Himachal and 1 in Punjab) are also expected to start soon.
Difficulty in getting student training attachments in industry, for some new courses,
needs to be addressed by the State Directorates.
(b) All 9 new co-educational Polytechnics, 11 new women's polytechnics and 5 new
wings for women in co-ed Polytechnics have been established, as planned. The
remaining works at one women's polytechnic is expected to be completed by end-
December, 1999.
(c) Against a target of 7 Continuing Education Centers and 94 Continuing Education
Cells, 8 Centers and 111 Cells have been established. Some 70,000 persons
benefited from these Continuing Education Programs.



3
(d) A total of 33 (against a target of 40) community polytechnic wings in Maharashtra,
Punjab, Delhi are established under the project. These are performing a wide range
of activities. The remaining are also functioning under a Government of India
scheme, which covers over 400 such community polytechnic wings.
(e) All States achieved their targets for creating additional hostel places fully, with the
exception of Assam (short of one hostel of 120 places for women). This has
resulted in creation of additional 7266 hostel places for women and 3037 for boys.
Faculty and staff residences are also completed.
9. The targets for Quality Improvement Objectives have been generally met and even exceeded
for a few sub-components:
(a) A total of 13 (against a target of 12) Curriculum Development Centers have been
established. These Centers have developed curricula for all new courses and revised
all curricula for existing courses. A unique accomplishment appreciated by the
industry includes development of competency based curricula in the States of
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.
(b) Against the original target of 45 polytechnics where multi-point and credit system
(MPECS) courses were to be introduced, 44 polytechnics now offer these flexible
programs;
(c) All the 11 Staff Development Centers and 155 cells (against a target of 140) in the
polytechnics are functional. Over 23,000 staff-months of training has been
organized, meeting 99% of the targets for teaching staff. However, training of
laboratory and workshop staff lags behind and this may affect utilization of modern
facilities. Attention to their training during operational phase should be a priority.
(d) All the 807 new laboratories have been established and are functional. Some 2560
laboratories (against the target of 2468) have been modernized- 500 to the extent of
about 85% and the remaining to about 70%. Establishment of new laboratories and
modernization of existing laboratories, workshops and libraries was slowed down
due to delays in equipment procurement and completion of civil works. The new
equipment is still arriving and is expected to be installed by end-October, 1999. The
students, teachers and industry consider the modernization of the equipment as a
very significant factor contributing to quality.
(e) Twelve (against the target of 11) State -level Learning Resource Development
Centers (LRDCs) and 247 of 248 Learning Resource Utilization Cells have been
established. The centers have started developing and procuring learning material.
Discussions with teachers and students confirmed the good quality of the new
materials developed by LRDCs. There is still a lot of effort needed to expand the
activities of these centers and cells. The students would also welcome availability of
more textbooks and leaming material, especially for the new courses.
(f) The Aide-Memoirs of review missions contain repeatedly expressed concerns of the
Bank on the slow progress in appointing staff. The concerns were equally shared by
the MHRD and resulted in some progress. Now 89% of the 2273 key additional staff
posts have been filled but 739 of these are still filled on contract/ad-hoc basis. The



4
mission was assured that recruitment of staff would be pursued with the same
intensity and it would be an important part of the operational plan.
(g) Against planned 245 computer centers, 244 have been established in polytechnics;
the only shortfall being in Assam. The students, during beneficiaries' workshops,
emphasized the importance of computer skills and requested continued support to
these centers.
10. Most of the Efficiency Improvement Objectives have been achieved. The status is
summarized below:
(a) To facilitate Industry Institute Interaction. 19 State -level Centers and 233
polytechnic-level Cells have been established. These are contributing to the quality
of training of students in polytechnics with wide variations in effectiveness. While
many polytechnics in less industrialized locations are still having only limnited
interaction, industrial visits by students and teachers, campus interviews, and
frequent guest lectures by experts from the industry are on the increase. Some have
led to far reaching cooperation through innovations in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.
These include establishment of Corporate Schools (learning facilities setup by the
industry in a polytechnic) and experimentation with the caretaker industry concept.
These developments go beyond expectations in the SAR and indicate that serious
cooperation with the industry has now begun. While no major breakthroughs in
employer participation in management and financing of training activities is visible,
except in industry- sponsored polytechnics, a new policy framework for technician
education (see paragraph 15a), developed during the last phases of the project, is
expected to accelerate the partnership with Industry. Inadequacy of staff in the
Industry Institute Interaction Cells (often teachers are assigned additional duty for
this work) limits the implementation potential of this important sub-component.
(b) The cautious approach and even hesitation in granting autonomy to polytechnics
experienced in the previous project eased up a little and resulted in grant of
autonomy to 36 polytechnics against a target of 33. The degree and nature of
autonomy, however, is varied. While Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have given
academic, financial and administrative autonomy to selected polytechnics ; some
others have given only limited academic autonomy.
(c) This project has shown great potential in Internal Revenue Generation (IRG) during
the last two years. Maharashtra has given outstanding performance with total IRG
amounting to about RS 340 million. This represents about 45% of the total IRG in
the project or about 18.4% of annual recurrent expenditure on project polytechnics
of Maharashtra. The project average was 8.2% and the States anticipate
considerable improvements when appropriate policies are in place.
(d) The establishment of all 8 Maintenance Centers in States and Maintenance Cells in
239 Polytechnics has provided much better maintenance and utilization of
equipment in polytechnics.
(e) The mission appreciates the effort made by the NPIU and the States in providing
reliable information on efficiency indicators -- pass percentage, dropout and
repetition rates, employment percentage --all show improvements in quality and



5
efficiency gains. The NPIU has commissioned an impact study for a better
understanding of the total picture.
11. Procurement of works and equipment, and technical assistance (TA) were completed with
considerable delays. The speed with which procurement was completed during the last two years
establishes that the costly delays could have been avoided. The issues and problems in
procurement are summarized below.
(a) Civil Works: Civil works at all 224 polytechnics (8 new and 186 extensions) have
been completed except some works at one polytechnic in Delhi, and one in Assam.
These are also expected to be ready by end-December, 1999. There were wide
variations in the completion time for works in project states. The average delays
ranged from 5 months (Delhi, Tamil Nadu) to 24 months (Pondicherry and Assam).
Similarly, average costs of construction varied between some Rs.4000 per square
meter (in Haryana, Punjab, and Tamil Nadu) to about Rs.9000 per square meter (in
Assam). Majority of works were entrusted to State Departments with some 26%
executed by Public Sector Undertakings, which performed much better. In some
States, the SPIUs had no effective control on the pace of construction. This difficulty
was further compounded by the multiple State level approvals required before
inviting bids, finalizing a contract and in release of funds. The State Empowered
Committees took some time in being effective in providing the single window
clearance and quick decisions to expedite works.
(b) Equipment: In spite of initial delays and many problems, equipment procurement
has been successfully completed. The central agencies (initially DGS&D and later
COFMOW) failed in varying degrees to timely establish the organization, procedures
and computer system support to match the requirements of the large and varied,
multiple consignee and time bound procurements under the project. They failed, on
more than one occasion, to adhere to the declared procurement schedules. Of the
total equipment procurement expenditure of Rs.3662 million, the States proved
effective in procurement of equipment worth Rs. 2489 million (68 %) mostly
through national competitive bidding process. Timely preparation of commonly
agreed equipment specifications; state-wise re-allocation of funds in view of
changes in exchange rates; adequate budget allocations; and release of funds to
procurement agencies would have helped in minimizing some of the delays in
procurement of equipment.
There were also problems with installation of equipment and incomplete deliveries;
the problems have since been resolved. States have informed that suppliers, mostly
of imported equipment, have, in several cases and despite reminders, not met their
obligation to install equipment. Some of the suppliers have not shown due speed in
installation and commnissioning of equipment. There have been cases of delays in
installation because of inadequate site preparations.
(c) Technical Assistance: Most States made appropriate use of local consultants and
local training for staff. However, foreign training was underutilized by 25% in terms
of numbers as well as staff months of training due to a much delayed start of such
training. Only about 60% of the original allocation were utilized as the States



6
depended mostly on national/ local expertise and training facilities available at a
very nominal cost.
Implementation Experience
12. All covenants have been complied with either fully or in a manner acceptable to IDA
Overall, the Project maintained slow progress in the achievement of physical targets in the first
three years with much accelerated progress during the last three years. After overcoming the
initial delays in the setting up and staffing of Project Implementation Units in the States and
adoption of working procedures, project implementation showed significant improvement. This
timely completion, with one 4 month extension to ensure supply of equipment already ordered,
was due to the competent management by the NPD, the NPIU, and the SPIUs.
13. If all conumitments are honored by the closing date, the total project cost is estimated to be
Rs. 10,750 million ( about US$ 295 million), against the original estimate of Rs.8252 million
(US$ 362 million). Significant increase in the availability of credit funds in Rupee terms due to
over 200% devaluatioh of rupee during the project period was offset by: (a)cancellation of
credit worth about US$ 50 million in 1993 at the request of the Government of India, (b) addition
of the UT of Pondicherry to the project, (c) increase in the level and number of laboratories,
computer centers, workshops and libraries to be modernized, and(d) increase in hostel places for
women.
14. The mission appreciates the opportunity provided by the host states to meet the stake
holders and beneficiaries in workshops during regional reviews. Excellent participation and
frank exchange of views provided valuable feedback on project outcomes. Major outcomes of
the project, as expressed by sample beneficiary groups of students and alumni from project
polytechnics at New Delhi, Calcutta, Mumbai, and Hyderabad are (see Annex 7): modernized
laboratories, enhanced cooperation with the industry, availability of courses in advanced
technologies, and better trained staff. They suggested frequent updating of curricula with the
involvement of industry; better training and placement services by polytechnics; and appropriate
provision of textbooks for new courses. Emphasis on these aspects during the operational phase
is recommended as priority.
15. Discussion with stake holder groups consisting of representatives from industry, principals
and teachers at the four locations revealed that: (a) the industry realizes its role as a stake holder
and is willing to participate in academic as well as governance related activities with human,
physical and financial inputs; (b) marketing strategies need to be pursued by polytechnics to
market their products (graduates) and services(training, testing, production facilities) to industry;
(c) appropriate policy to provide incentives to polytechnic staff to enhance IRG; and (d) more
focussed teacher training on changes in technology taking place in the industry.
Some Unanticipated Project Results
16. Some areas where the implementation resulted in unanticipated gains include:
(a) a new policy framework, with active participation from the industry, has been
prepared by an Expert-Group appointed by the MHRD. This goes much beyond the
anticipated scope of work of the Industry-Institute Interaction Centers/Cells and is
likely to promote a lasting partnership with the industry in the management and
financing of polytechnics;



7
(b) women's enrollment in project polytechnics increased from 16% pre-project
average to 28% with Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Pondicherry, Punjab and Tamil
Nadu going well beyond 30%. West Bengal recorded an increase in women
enrollment from 4% pre-project to over 20% now;
(c) with supporting policies and incentives introduced in some of the States, Internal
Revenue Generation (1RG) is picking up. Cumulative IRG of Rs.740 million,
notably in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu, has been
reported and has the potential of further substantial growth; and
(d) TTTIs and the vast pool of professionals available in India were properly utilized
by the NPD and the States in strategy formulation and evaluation studies. Some
examples include tracer studies, evaluation of staff development courses, regular
formative evaluation of project outcomes, preparation of strategy papers, design of
systems, and a series of semninars for senior project staff in States . These
interventions have provided valuable feedback and refined project interventions
which would enhance the sustainability of the project gains. The overlap between
the two projects facilitated optimal use of TTTIs and other resources.
Future Operations
17. The GOI has requested the Bank to support another project in the sector and its preparation is
underway. Lessons learned under this project would be of value to the proposed project. The
mission requests discussion during the wrap-up meeting and proposes to include the
recommendations in the final ICR. The recommended issues are:
-  The arrangements for the procurement of works through state departments resulted in
cost escalation due to delays. Any improvement in the performance must include the
choice of a suitable agency and capacity building at the SPIUs.
-  The arrangements for the procurement of equipment through ICB caused delays and
resulted in change of agency midway; even the second agency expressed its inability to
procure some equipment and returned the indents to the States/NPIU at a very late
stage. The project states were unable to meet the deadlines for procurement, and
bunching at the final stage resulted in inefficient handling of accounts. The State level
procurement through NCB was comparatively more efficient.
*   The flow of funds was a problem to some states and was the main reason for delays in
an otherwise efficient implementation. Many States, during regional reviews, posed
this as a problem.
*   Decentralization of project management is another issue raised by States which
reported that highly centralized decisions both at the central and state levels caused
delays.
18. All States informed that adequate funds would be available to complete unfinished works
and to continue quality improvement activities. An operational plan, with monitoring indicators
acceptable to IDA, has been prepared. It includes, among other details, completion of the



8
remaining civil works by end-December 1999, appointment of remaining teaching staff in all
polytechnics by December 1999, continued support to teacher training, and installation and
commissioning of newly received equipment. The operational plans. after discussions with IDA
mission, would be revised as necessary and the Bank will receive them by November 30, 1999.
Lessons Learned
19. This project is identical to Tech. Ed. I and the lessons learned are similar too. The wrap-up
meeting might suggest any other lessons from this project. Following is a summary of important
findings and key lessons learned:
(a) It is possible for even a very complex multi-State project to be successful with full
ownership and commitment of the States along with policy support and critical
technical assistance from the Center.
(b) With the current emphasis on decentralization, more Bank attention should be given to
local implementers. Technical assistance should be provided by the Bank and the
Borrower to these implementers at an early stage.
(c) In a complex multi-State project covering many States and such large number of wide-
spread project locations, decentralized procurement would be more efficient.
(d) Timely creation and filling of key staff positions with qualified and trained staff is
most critical for success of an education project to ensure quality. This should be a
necessary condition linked to disbursement in all such projects involving heavy
investments in buildings and equipment.
(e) Relevant policy support should be in place before the effectiveness of a project.
(f) The very significant increase in women enrollment in polytechnics indicated their
keen desire to enter new areas like electronics, computers, fashion design,
architecture, etc. if proper atmosphere and opportunities are created and supported by
visible policy measures like reservation in employment.
Time Table for ICR:
20.   The following time table for completion of the ICR was agreed during the mission: 
Draft ICR sent to the Borrower ---------------------  January 31, 2000
Borrower's draft ICR given to the Bank ------------  February 15, 2000
Borrower's comments received on Bank's ICR----    February 15, 2000



Annex 7
RESULTS OF DISCUSSIONS WITH BENEFICIARY GROUPS
(STUDENTS, ALUMINI)
MAJOR OBSERVATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS
PROJECT                      OBSERVATIONS ON               SUGGESTIONS FOR
PROVISIONS                   PROJECT OUTCOME               SUSTENANCE/IMPROVEMENT
MODERNIZATION OF             Laboratories have been        More Laboratory Staff Training is needed
LABORATORIES,                modernized to a large extent.    for better utilization and maintenance of
WORKSHOPS                                                 gequipment.
UPDATING OF                  Curricula have been updated   More frequent curricular changes in tune
CURRICULA                    and are better now.           with changes in industrial practices will be
___ __ __ __ __ __ __ _   .__   desirable.
TEACHER TRAINING             Quality of teaching has       Teachers need more exposure to industrial
improved .                    Eractices .
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING          Industrial training has helped in  Polytechnics should assist in finding places
_               ~~~~~~getting etter job placements.   for industrial training
LEARNING RESOURCES           Learning Resources, are now   Libraries should become more user friendly.
available to supplement books.   Text material for some new courses are not
available.
PLACEMENT SERVICES           Campus interviews have helped  Industry should be made aware of the
in finding good jobs.         polytechnic courses, facilities etc. by a
proper marketing effort.
LINKS WITH INDUSTRY          Projects in industry have made   More intensive interaction between
learning more interesting and    polytechnics and industry is required.
interactive.
BENEFICIARY SURVEY
SAMPLE COMPOSITION
| BENEFICIARIES  l DELHI                    CALCUTTA           MUMBAI   HYDERABAD
STUDENTS
MALE                                        -                   11 ;25___F__
__    _   _   _  _   _                      ___   __    _  _                   2
FEMALE                  jl[20                                    2              2______
ALUMNI                                                                         _ _
MALE                       3  _    _2                                        ____
FEMALE                     3   ...  .        4 .2 
TOTAL                     17                24                  17           l 37                  I
6/15/00 11:03 AM






f-mr#mT FcrT;
S~~~~~~ =
Frv~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~i '-I.bft-ulo 001
MIINISTRY OF HUMIAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMIENT
i < ~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
9ib hAq                           ~~~~~~~~~GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
PROF. ASHOKA CHANDRA                                    SHASTRI BHAWAN
Special Secretary
D.O. No. 8-5/99 WBC                                 June 2, 2000
Sub: Comments on the latest Draft ICR for Second Technician
Education Project (dated 22.5.2000) received from the World
Bank.
Dear Mr. Henevald,
I invifte reference to your letter dated May 19, 2000, enclosing
therewith a draft of an intensive learning Implementation Completion Report
prepared by a team led by the task leader, Prof. Shashi K. Shrivastava.
We are pleased to note that the World Bank has rated the outcome,
s.ustainability and impact of the project as excellent. We have, however, a
frew observations to make. Our view is that both, the Bank's performance
and borrower performance were "Highly Satisfactory", since almost all
academic and physical targets have been achieved. The shortfall in financial
target achievement is only 1.13 % and disbursement 5% . In a project of
-high variety and complexity, this level of achievement is exemplary. We
therefore, feel that the rating for Bank and borrower performance be given as
'Highly Satisfactory' instead of 'Satisfactory'.
Similarly Annexure - 5, indicates ratings for objectives/outputs. We
suggest reconsideration of some of these ratings also. As you aware, a
Sector Policy for Technical Education was formnulated by the Government of
India and a Sector Document by the World Bank, during the Second Project.
In view of these achievements, we feel that rating should have been "High"
instead of "Substantial". Further, due to a fall in the value of the Rupee, the
Contd.. .
.  _    n   s   n   >   n  A e Fw ... 



-2-
project amount increased to almost twice its value. In these circumstances,
expending twice the initially planned amount was an excellent achievement
by the project states. The shortfall in disbursement was only of about 8
million SDRs or 5 % of the total value at the end of the project, which is
insignificant. Therefore, the rating "Substantial"' in finance, needs to be
reconsidered and made "High".
The participation in rural development increased from 23 % to 46.7%,
inspite of two States/Union Territories being totally urban in mature. This
achievement in providing access to the disadvantaged groups merits a
"High" rating, instead of "Substantial".
Similarly, in Annexure - 6, in the backdrop of excellent
achievements, the bank and borrower performance merits to be rated as
"Highly Satisfactory" instead of the present rating "Satisfactory" .
We would like to place on record, the Government of India's deep
sense of appreciation for the support provided to the project by the World
Bank. We would also like to thank the team who prepared the draft
Implementation Completion Report for highlighting the achievements under
the project and for their excellent rating of outcome, sustainability and
impact of the project. In particular, the support and co-operation extended
by Prof S.K. Shrivastav and his colleagues, is gratefully acknowledged.
Yours sincerely,
(Prof Ashoka Chandra)
Mr. Ward Heneveld
Education Sector Team Leader for India
World Bank
70, Lodi Estate
New Delhi - 110 003.



THE SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
(CR 2223 IN)
FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
lst June, 2000
Government of India
Ministry of Human Resource Development
(Department of Education)
NEW DELHI



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
1.0 PREFACE
1.1 India is in the process of modernising and expanding its industrial sector to meet the demands
of a global and liberal economy. In this process there is evidence of importation, development
and use of new technologies, improving the quality and efficiency of production, and enhancing
the outreach of information, communication and other services. The technician education
system which carries the responsibility of supplying middle level technician manpower to the
industrial and services sector needed to upgrade its capabilities. In addition, the access to
technician education opportunities for disadvantaged groups had to be extended and
strengthened. The problems and issues that impeded the Technician Education system in the
late eighties were directly related to its capacity to respond to changing societal needs, the
quality of passouts that it produced and the efficiency of its operations.
1.2 With these problems and issues in mind and against the backdrop of the improvements
suggested in the National Policy on Education (NPE), 1986 and its various tenets, a Technician
Education Project with World Bank assistance was introduced in the early 90's. For the
purposes of simplifying implementation, the project was divided into two phases. This evaluation
report concerns the second phase or the Second Project, which began in January 1992 and
concluded at the end of October 1999.
2.0 PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1 The National Policy of Education, 1986, called for new thrusts and directions by which major
problems and issues could be addressed. Paramount among these were:
a) increasing facilities for computer and new technology education.
b) highlighting entrepreneurship development as an important parameter for Technician
Education.
c) encouraging the involvement of users in the curriculum development process.
d) restructuring educational programmes to provide more learning flexibility for students.
e) expanding facilities and programmes and thereby enhancing participation of women and
disadvantaged groups.
f) undertaking continuing education on a large scale for benefiting employees and youth in the
formal and informal sectors.
2.2 In consonance with the initiatives suggested in the NPE (1986), the Second Project formulated
its objectives as:
i) Capacity Expansion, which included the introduction of new technology programmes, the
developing of new co-educational institutions, the strengthening of polytechnic infrastructures,
and the expansion of educational opportunities to women and other disadvantaged groups.
ii) Quality Improvement through need based and relevant curriculum development, improving
curriculum implementation processes, modernising laboratory equipment and other learning
facilities, establishing computer centres, teacher development in relevant dimensions, and
creating capacity for maintaining physical facilities within polytechnics.
iii) Efficiency Improvement which indicated strengthening the management of administration of
institutions and state systems, extending autonomy to willing and deserving institutions, and
reinforcing transactions with industry.



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
2.3 With these objectives, the Second Project was formulated for Andhra Pradesh, Assam,
Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, NCT Delhi, Punjab, Tamilnadu, and West Bengal.
The Union Territory of Pondicherry was added to these states in 1993. In brief, the beneficiaries
in these 10 states and Union Territories included 252 polytechnics, an anticipated 133000
students per year and about 8500 teachers per year.
2.4 These objectives relate fairly precisely with the concerns and initiatives mentioned in the
National Policy on Education (NPE) - 1986 and the subsequent 10 year development plan
which was the programme of action for the National Policy. Also reflected in these objectives,
were remedial actions on major concerns for technician quality expressed repeatedly by
industry. In brief, the project was expected to sow the seeds of a systemic transformation of
Technician Education. The objectives were converted into academic, physical and financial
targets in the SAR for the project.
2.5 While conceiving the project and its various dimensions, a large number of professionals in the
Technical Education system were involved or consulted through workshops, joint discussions
and meetings. In fact, many states and polytechnic administrators and teachers actively
contributed to the design of the project. In addition, polytechnics, through their teachers, were
invited to submit detailed DPRs of the proposed institutional development on the lines
embedded in the project objectives. The development of a consensus on project dimensions
was considerable if not complete.
3.0 IMPLEMENTATION MECHANISM
3.1 The implementation mechanism for the project included a Polytechnic Project Implementation
Unit (PPIU) in each project institution, a State Project Implementation Unit (SPIU) for each of
the beneficiary states, and Union Territories, a national co-ordinating agency or National Project
Implementation Unit (NPIU) at New Delhi, and National Project Directorate headed by a senior
official at the Government of India for making project related decisions.
3.2 From the beginning, an attempt was made to network these units so that developments,
implementation problems and impediments, and project progress in general, would be
communicated in a timely fashion to at least the next higher level. It took quite sometime to
electronically network locations in the mechanism. Towards the final year of the project, on line
transmission of data between states and the NPIU became possible and a project MIS was in
full operation and use. Networking of institutions to SPIUs has also occurred within some project
states.
3.3 The monitoring of progress was done on the basis of a reporting framework incorporated in the
project MIS. Each institution was expected to report significant events every two months to
SPIU, which compiled progress and informed the NPIU, which in turn, kept the Government of
India and the World Bank informed. Lapses and gaps in information occasionally occurred in
this reporting framework, specifically due to the scale and dimensional variety involved. To
strengthen monitoring, observation visits, institutional meetings, on site review by the World
Bank and Government of India officials, special monitoring team visits to specific institutions,
research studies, and NPIU interventions in problem locations were added. In brief, the
monitoring was fairly rigorous and introduced a sense of discipline and accountability in the
project.



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
4.0 ACHIEVEMENTS
4.1 In summary, the project has successfully achieved almost all academic, physical and financial
targets. The achievements have been elaborated below and in Annexes I to XVII.
4.2 Significant accomplishments were:
a) the modernisation of 2558 labs and workshops.
b) a regular revision of all curricula once in 5 years or less in consultation with industry.
c) a reduction in average dropout rate from 8% to 4.6% among project institutions.
d) an enhancement of average pass rate from 46% at the project beginning to 76% at the end of
the project.
e) the introduction of about 289 new diploma and post diploma programmes with 87 in new and
emerging technology areas, with an annual output of 8000 passouts.
f) a enhancement, during the project, in the employment rate from 45% to 65% in conventional
disciplines, and, an employment rate of above 75% in diversified and new technology
disciplines within twelve months of the declaration of results.
g) the establishment of 9 new co-ed polytechnics, 11 new women's polytechnics and 5 women's
wings in co-ed polytechnics and a consequent increase in the population of women students
from 15% at the beginning of the project to 28.4% average at the end of the project.
h) the percentage of rural students also increased during the project from 23% to an average of
46.7% inspite of Pondicherry and NCT Delhi being totally urban in character.
i) the introduction of entry and credit acquisition flexibility in courses in 44 institutions. At least 20
more institutions are targeting this reform in the year 2000.
j) autonomy in diverse dimensions was provided by states to 36 institutions against a target of
26, though the models introduced were of considerable diversity.
k) of the works at 224 sites conceived, 222 are complete and two are in the final stages of
completion, with the locating state guaranteeing completion within six months of the end of the
project. All these constructions have received adequate attention from the point of view of
quality through mechanisms established by the states, institutions and UTs.
I) additional hostel places of 7266 for women and 3037 for boys and 1271 faculty and staff
residences were built under the project. Certain reduction in targets occurred in the course of
the project for these elements.
4.3 States established or created many infrastructures which included PPIUs, SPIU, Curriculum
Development Centres (CDCs), Learning Resource Development Centres (LRDCs), Learning
Resource Utilisation Centres (LRUCs), Industry Institution Interaction Centres and Cells (IlICs),
Staff Development Centres and Cells (SDCs), Continuing Education Centres and Cells (CECs)
and Maintenance centres and cells, all of which are currently operational.  All targeted
infrastructures have been established.
4.4 More than 280 new diploma and post diploma courses were introduced by project states with
the assistance of the Board of Technical Education and autonomous polytechnics. These could
be broadly classified into 87 new technology types. Prominent among these were programmes
in computer application, computer technology, computer software development, digital
electronics, marine communication and electronics, computer-aided design, marine engineering,
rubber technology, packaging technology, refrigeration and air conditioning, jewellery designing,
diamond cutting and finishing, tool and die manufacture, electrical distribution and transmission,
telecommunication and telematics, robotics and laser technology, welding and fabrication and
petrochemical technology. In revised curricula, many new technology subjects were
incorporated to enhance students' options. Curricular designs were facilitated by industry.



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Computer usage, environmental management, safety techniques and communication ability
were incorporated in almost all programmes as essential components of learning.
Entrepreneurial development was made available to students by all project states in many
polytechnics as regular courses or topics or well-planned co-curricular activities, though the
impact of this intervention was not as significant as expected.
4.5 The training of teachers was planned each year by the states along with the Technical
Teachers' Training Institutes (TTTIs), which undertook the major share of the training. More
than 13800 teachers, some more than once, were trained in various aspects in India and
abroad, though the achievement in foreign fellowships was only about 85% of the target. Faculty
development exceeded conceived targets in the project. Almost 20% of the teachers were
trained in industry for the first time in their careers. Supporting staff numbering more than 1850
were also trained in the TTTIs and industry, especially in the operation and maintenance of hi-
tech equipment.
4.6 The LRDCs developed and procured various forms of learning resources and distributed them
to LRUCs and institutions for use in classrooms. Outstanding achievements in this sphere
occurred in Punjab, Maharashtra, Tamilnadu and Haryana. Computer-aided resources like
multimedia packages were added to polytechnics in the concluding stages of the project.
Regular use of learning resources and learning gains were reported by sampled students during
the final review mission in the project.
4.7 In an effort to ensure appropriate student gains from modernised and new technology
laboratories, teachers created a number of laboratory manuals, which enabled curriculum
relevant learning. Studies were undertaken by certain states to enhance utilisation of new
equipment for learning. In few cases delayed supply and installation of equipment did adversely
affect this cause.
4.8 Almost all polytechnics set up Academic Advisory Committees for improving the quality of
academic services. In about 180 polytechnics industrial participation was significant in these
committees. In addition, in about 300 polytechnics, representatives of the public services where
accommodated in the Advisory Committee
4.9 Interaction with industry reached significant heights in the project with more than 1,00,000
students benefiting from training in industry, visits to industry, and expert lectures. States like
Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and NCT Delhi ensured that training in industry was a component of
student curricular activities in almost all courses. Industries and communities, as the project
proceeded, increasingly participated in curriculum development, student assessment and
institutional governance activities. Problem solving projects from industry promoted student
learning in states like Maharashtra and Tamilnadu.
4.10There was a spurt in continuing and distance education and other such services to industry and
community. More than 48,000 industrial functionaries and 25,000 community youth benefited
from continuing and distance education initiatives in the project. In particular, continuing and
distance education activity was noticeably high in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra,
Tamilnadu and West Bengal. Twenty polytechnics in Maharashtra and Tamilnadu also
undertook consultancy challenges for industry and community.
4.11 Income generated by polytechnics through various avenues like tuition fees, continuing and
distance education, consultancies, and testing and calibration significantly increased from an
almost negligible amount in the early stages of the project to a total of Rs 735.000 million during



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
the project. The ratio of annual income generation to annual recurring expenses increased from
negligible levels to more than 18% in Maharashtra, and averaged 8.2% in project states.
4.120ut of a targeted 54 Community Polytechnics, only 33 could be achieved. The other 21 were
integrated with the Direct Central Assistance scheme of the Government of India. In the 33 from
the states of Maharashtra, Punjab, West Bengal and NCT Delhi, activities related to training of
rural youth, employment generation, transfer of appropriate technologies and establishment of
rural service centres occurred. It is presumed that these polytechnics will get absorbed in the
Direct Central Assistance scheme during the year 2000 for the purposes of sustaining
community development activity.
4.13A number of research studies were undertaken during the project to verify whether the project
was proceeding in the right direction. These included formative evaluation studies undertaken
by the TTTIs on the behest of NPIU, and minor researches related to establishment of new
institutions, competency identification, benefits of industrial training of teachers, relationships
between PPIUs and institutional faculty, utilisation of various dimensions of autonomy provided
by states to institutions, learning resources developed, distributed and used in classroom
instruction, mechanisms created to enhance passout employment, strategies adopted to
enhance women's participation, and unit training cost in different states. There was reasonable
evidence that that the staff development thrust resulted in positive role changes among
teachers. In addition, tracer studies on sampled passouts from different courses were also
undertaken. The TTTIs, SPIUs, PPIUs, and the NPIU collaborated in conducting these
researches. Occasionally, local individual consultants were also employed. The IAMR (Institute
of Applied Manpower Research, Delhi), extended tracer study activities to project polytechnics.
Remedial actions in some institutions emerged from these studies and set right certain
deviations from project intentions.
5.0 ACHIEVEMENTS BEYOND TARGETS
5.1 When the First and Second Projects were conceived in late 80's and early 90's, the emphasis
was on strengthening infrastructures and building essential academic capacity in project
institutions to provide manpower of an acceptable quality. In retrospect, the targets set were
reformatory in character and represented normal developments, which should occur in an
educational institution with reasonable investment. However, it was noticeable that certain
institutions set and achieved targets for themselves that were beyond those conceived in the
project. This was a reflection of the dedication and initiative, which many teachers in
polytechnics exhibited towards the causes of institutional development and academic benefits to
students.
5.2 Prominent among these are:
(a) Transforming 7 polytechnics into Lead Centres in Maharashtra which networked with nearby
polytechnics and undertook the responsibility of their staff development, interaction with industry,
curriculum implementation and passout employment. This model is being adopted by Andhra
Pradesh in the near future and is an important feature in the proposed Programme of Excellence
for Engineering Colleges and the Polytechnics.
(b) A few polytechnics in Maharashtra and in a few courses in certain polytechnics of Tamilnadu, the
Caretaker Industry concept was adopted. This meant that an industrial group became a partner
to the polytechnic in course development and contributed ideas and actions to achieve the goals
of development. The contribution of industry, spanned governance, academic, and resource



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
mobilisation activities. The Caretaker Industry also helped the polytechnic develop linkages with
other nearby industries, and students benefited through better employment prospects.
(c) In a few polytechnics of Maharashtra and Tamilnadu, industry set up a number of relevant hi-
tech laboratories and managed these laboratories for both regular and continuing education
learning. The polytechnic provided space for these laboratories. Known as the Corporate School
concept, this initiative reduced polytechnic requirements for costly hi-tech equipment and
reinforced industrial intervention for improving passout quality and competence. An appreciation
of this concept is gradually developing in other states too.
(d) The states of Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamilnadu and Andhra Pradesh encouraged the
development of competency-based curricula in twenty polytechnics which possessed some
measure of academic autonomy. In these institutions, competencies to be acquired by students
in various disciplines were decided with the involvement of relevant industry. this model also
placed an emphasis on hands-on-practice and self-learning by students
(e) There was a considerable increase in the number of sandwich programmes during the project in
Andhra Pradesh. Haryana, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamilnadu and West Bengal. The total
polytechnics practicing this concept are 33. However, many more courses are likely to shift to
this pattern in near future. There are many courses which currently demand vocational training of
students in industry, though without providing academic credit for the training.
(f) The production centre concept became acceptable in many states and enhanced the income
generation of polytechnics which housed them. In all 26 polytechnics in Andhra Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamilnadu and West Bengal have active production centres. These
production centres provide engineering products for industry and for general use. Himachal
Pradesh has set up production centres in all its 5 polytechnics for community benefit. Students
obtain hands-on-practice in these production centres.
(g) A number of polytechnics in Maharashtra and Tamilnadu obtained donations and endowments
from industry for setting up special courses to train technicians for the donating industry.
Prominent these are programmes for rubber industry, diamond trade and tool engineering in
Maharashtra, refrigeration and air conditioning, pump set manufacture and the jewellery trade in
Tamilnadu.
(h) There was a quantum leap in the percentage of women students in polytechnics during the
project period. In addition, some polytechnics (29) established special placement cells for women
passouts. Andhra Pradesh uses model of residential polytechnics for women students from the
scheduled and backward class categories.
(i) Each state strengthened their facilities and provided special bridge courses for students from
disadvantaged groups. Special learning and hostel provisions for the physically disabled have
been provided in 80 polytechnics in Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Haryana, NCT Delhi and
Tamilnadu. Andhra Pradesh has 8 institutions exclusively for students from scheduled and
backward categories.
0) With the assistance and cooperation of the TTTIs, NPIU was able to document list of learning
resources developed, specifications and learning utility of hi-tech equipment, tracer data and
trends on passouts, and a directory of educational innovation. Seminars and special workshops
on autonomy, educational innovations, project MIS and reengineering the system were
organised by the NPIU and TTTIs in the later stages of the project
5.4 Achievements against financial targets: The revised project allocation of Rs 11131.668
million was utilised to the extent of 98% by the project states, TTTIs and NPIU.
6.0 MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT OUTCOMES
6.1 As the project progressed it became evident that the intensive monitoring of the project also
increased in its effectiveness leading to the achievement of almost all academic and financial



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
targets. The monitoring was backed by the dedication and perseverance of project states SPIU,
NPIU and institutions.
6.2 In fact, a discipline of attempting to fulfil targets in time got developed through the pattern of
work experience incorporated in the project. A climate of project management in the real sense
emerged in most project locations with project managers committed to ensuring completion of
activities and events in time.
6.3 However, certain draw backs and problems were encountered in the course of the project:
(a) Faculty recruitment cycles were subject to inordinate delays in almost all states while the states
exhibit excellent capability in creating posts. The process of filling of these posts was impeded
due to reasons like long drawn procedures adopted by state recruiting agencies, reservation of
posts, preference of graduates for employment in industry rather than in teaching positions,
inadequate availability of graduates in new and diversified disciplines. Out of 2106 key additional
positions created, 240 vacancies remained at the end of the project. States were still engaged in
the process of filling these vacancies.
(b) The procedures and norms of the World Bank related to construction, equipment procurement
and reimbursement required repeated clarifications to states before they could be applied
appropriately. Especially, in the field of disbursement, the NPIU revised its mechanism and
introduced channelling of disbursement claims through the NPIU. This speeded disbursement
and reconciling of accounts in the later stages of the project.
(c) A few construction agencies like state PWDs and one or two other public sector agencies
delayed construction at certain sites. In a few others, the acquisition of land took considerable
time. In brief, the average construction delay in the project was about 10 months.
(d) The central equipment procurement agencies utilised prolonged procedures which delayed
supply in many cases. As a matter of fact, most supplies got clustered towards the end of the
project. In contrast, states managed local procurement in an effective manner.
(e) Changes in state priorities, due to unforeseen events, resulted in a deficient fund allocation,
when funding was needed. However, states made up for such inadequate provisions in the later
stages of the project.
(f) While faculty and staff training was a noticeable achievement in the project, transfer of key
faculty, staff and administrators disturbed project implementation on some occasions.
(g) The interdependencies between project elements were over looked in a few locations, resulting
in uncoordinated implementation of project elements. For example, equipment procurement
occurred much later than the starting of programmes in some cases.
(h) The relationship between the SPIU and the PWD in one or two states was not as close as it
should have been, with each agency pursuing its own completion dates.
While these problems were noticeable, remedial measures were enacted by the states to overcome
them. However, the problems provided lessons for future projects.
7.0 PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.1 The following steps have been taken to ensure sustained gains and impact of the project
a) States have committed themselves to sustain various support infrastructures developed under
the project and have decided to make appropriate financial provisions for staff development,
modernisation of laboratories and workshops, introduction of new courses in consonance with
labour market needs, and interaction with industry and community.



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
b) States would like to, on a selective basis, accord autonomy and introduce course flexibility in
deserving institutions. The culture of academic innovations initiated in the project is likely to
extend further enveloping more institutions.
c) The NPIU and TTTIs would be holding state level workshops to facilitate sustenance, sharing of
new ideas, strengthening various thrusts initiated in the project, promoting diffusion of change,
and for benchmarking of successful innovations observed during the project period.
d) Research based improvements in the system, which began in the later half of the project shall be
continued through planned interventions by the central government. There is a need to reinforce
this element.
e) Better co-ordination and interdependent working between agencies like MHRD, AICTE, NPIU,
TTTI, IAMR and state governments is being considered for ensuring systemic improvements in
the technician education system.
f) A project in technician education and a Programme of Excellence have been planned by the
Government of India for implementation with the World Bank assistance. The Programme of
Excellence represents a continuation of the development in many polytechnics which occurred in
the first and second projects. The aim is to seek excellence in about 100 - 120 polytechnics and
the development of polytechnic clusters around them.
g) A national policy Initiative on technician education has been approved by the Government of
India in 1999 this project promotes excellence and is expected to result in states enacting their
own support policy for the further development of technician education.
8.0 BANK PERFORMANCE
8.1 The Bank task team's contributions during project conception, design, planning and
implementation and their visits to various sites and frequent interaction with central and state
government officials has significantly helped in making the project implementation a success.
8.2 In fact, the frequent interaction of the Bank mission members with various states and
institutional officials gradually created a certain discipline in the project. The cycles of activities,
relevant expenses and disbursement became a normal pattern of working in the project. Major
problems encountered were discussed between Bank and Government of India/NPIU, and SPIU
officials, and in many cases solutions were derived through a consensual approach. In fact, joint
efforts and commitment was visible throughout the course of the project. Bank mission
members and the Government of India/NPIU team could gradually help state officials overcome
their inhibitions for introducing radical changes like autonomy and flexibility.
9.0 BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.1 While some implementation difficulties were encountered in the initial stages, borrowers learnt
from experience during the project and ensured timely outcomes and achievements.
9.2 Governmental support was much more forthcoming as the project progressed. Empowered
Committees in states took quick major decisions and ensured adequate financial allocations.
State level mechanism closely monitored the project and worked for achieving targets.
9.3 The TTTIs extended wide-ranging support to academic components and helped polytechnics in
ensuring learning gains to students. They were also instrumental in enhancing faculty and staff
capabilities (Annexe - 111).
9.4 The National Empowered Committee provided consistent support to the project and directions
for accelerating project progress. The National Project Directorate guided and facilitated the



TECHED-II(2223 IN) FER
project implementation at all stages and monitored project events very closely with NPIU. It
enabled the states in overcoming obstacles which impeded developments.
9.5 One major outcome in the project was the teamwork exhibited by borrowers at different levels
and locations. Consensus about the strategies and measures was visible right through the
project in all activities.
9.6 Most of all, the commitment of polytechnic teachers and staff towards ensuring project success
must be commended.
1 0.OASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
10.1 As mentioned earlier, the achievement of academic, physical and financial targets is almost total
and complete.
10.2Progressive increase in the value of SDR in terms of rupees expanded the quantum of rupees
available in the project. A final reallocation of funds towards the end of the project, in
consultation with states saw ample funds made available to polytechnics. However, the lack of
capability within some states to speed up expenditure and disbursement and delays in
completing financial transaction for the centralised supply of certain equipment resulted in a
shortfall of 5% in actual as compared to available disbursement. All attempts to complete
disbursement could not reduce this short fall.
10.3The over achievement in the sphere of women participation is of great significance, and
occurred through a dedicated efforts and a variety of strategies.
1 0.4The systemic changes that emerged in curriculum development and implementation, in industry
institute interaction and in polytechnic income generation must be acknowledged.
1 0.5The massive staff development effort must also be acknowledged as a planned change effort.
10.6The enormity of the task of modernising 2558 laboratories in all project polytechnics, and
constructing new buildings in 224 sites was addressed in the project through successful
strategies and the accomplishment in this case is almost total.
11.0 LESSONS LEARNT IN THE PROJECT
11.1 A multidimensional and large-scale educational change has to be planned in great detail and
implemented with frequent and multivariate methods of monitoring. Strategy diversity is also key
factor.
11.2Early development of consensus is a success factor, which cannot be ignored. Planning and
implementation in partnership with stakeholders can ensure a higher degree of success.
11.3Many project events hold crucial experiences for future projects. A documentation of such
events and experiences is, hence, necessary. The NPIU with the help of TTTIs and SPIUs has
documented innovations, Learning resources developed and available, hi tech equipment,
specifications in various disciplines and preferred strategies for enhancing women's
participation.



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
11.4Tedious and complex procedures affected timely procurement. While procedures can be
simplified, it is planning, which can promote timely supply of resources. A better planned effort
particularly in centralised procurement is called for.
11.5 Identifying competent agencies in construction and procurement is a factor requiring much more
attention in the future. In addition, empowering institutions to manage these two infrastructure
activities (in other words decentralisation) also requires consideration.
11.6Use of normal government procedures in time bound, multidimensional projects needs to be
questioned specifically with regard to faculty recruitment allocation of funds and expenses on it.
New patterns need to emerge to facilitate project management.



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex - I (1 OF 2)
____          NEW FACILITIES_DEVELOPED                                ___
s     PARAMETERS          ANDHRA    ASSAMl   HARYANA   HIMACHAL  MAHAAASHTRA    NCT   PONDICHERRY   PUNJAB   TAMIL NADU    WEST                         TOTAL
N                         PRADESH                            PRADESH                     DELHI                                             BENGAL
TA T AT   A  T  A T   A   TIA TI A   T A   T  A  T  A  T  A
IProject Polytechnics     59  59   9 9          16    16      5    5   50       50      9    9    3       3      17  17       52    52   32   32   252   252
2Now co-ed polytechnics    1    1   NLNIL   3          3      1    -1   1-       1--NI                     IL    NL NIL   NIL   NIL    2    2          9      9
3Now women                2    2    1    1    1        1    NIL  NIL  2-         2     NIL  NIL           NL    -3    3    NIL   NIL    2    2         1 1    1 1
polytechnics
4 Newomn'sing      NI   NI   MLNIL NILNIL   NIL  NIL5                      5 NIL  NIL  NIL    NIL   NIL         NIL NI NIL  NIL  NIL5                   5
5 New diploma courses for  25   26   NIL  NIL 19       9      4     4        26 2        0 1    3         3      14   14    27    27   30    3         5      5
co-ed students
6New post diploma         3    3   NIL NIL    1        1      3    1    16       16     6   6      1       1     NIL   NIL   10    10   10   10    50    48
courses for co-ed
students
7New dlpoma courses for  1 1   1 1    2   2      9     9      1    1   1 3       1 3    3   3      2      2      1 3    1 3    1 1    1 1    1 1    1 1    76    76
women polytechnics and
women wings
8 New post dlpoma         NIL  NIL  NIL  NIL  NIL   NIL   NIL  NIL  NIL         NIL    NIL  NIL  NIL    NIL       3    2       1     1    3    3       7      6
courses for women
polytechnics and women
wings
9 Adtoa  tdn seats 5350 550  210  210  2645  2569   330  375 4085    4085 13036   480    480 250 59   3275  3605300 71235240
created and approved by
AICTE (all courses)-
Target , Actual Student
Strength (Achievement)                                                 6Nc                                                                
10 Staff development      NIL  NIL   I    1    1        1    NIL  NIL         6  6      NL  NL  NIL   NIL1              1      1     1 1    1          11    11
centres
11 Staff development cell   NIL  NIL   8    8    I      5    NILF  NIL  22       22      9    9   NIL    NIL    17   17    5         52    32 -32    10        5
12 CE centres             NIL    1    1    1   NIL    1       1    1    1         1     NIL  NIL   1      NIL     1     1      1     1     1    1       7      8
13 CE cells               NIL  16    3    3   NIL    2        3    3    12       12      5    5       NILNI       5     5     52152         4    13     4     11
14lllcentres                1 1          1                         1    10      10       11           1          1   1        1           ~~1    1    19    19



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex - I (2 OF 2)
NEW FACILITIES DEVELOPED
S      PARAMETERS         ANDHRA    ASSAM    HARYANA  HIMACHAL MAHARASHTRA    NCT   PONDICHERRY   PUNJAB   TAMIL NADU    WEST                           TOTAL
NO                        PRADESH                            PRADESH                     DELHI                                             BENGAL
T_A         T A        T     A     T    A   T         A      T I A      T       A      T    A       T     A    '      A      T      A
15 III cells              56    56    9    8    16    16    5    5   35          35     9    9     3       3      17   17    52    52   32    32   234   233
16LRDCs                   NIL    I    NIL8NIL    1           NIL  NiL   8        8           NILNIL   NIL    NIL    NILI L L   1     1    1      1    11    12
17LRUCs                   56    56    9    8    16    16    5    5   52          52     9    9    NIL    NiL    17   17    52    52   32   32   248   247
t8 CD centres              1     1     1    1 1        1    1    1    6         6     NIL  NIL   NIL    NIL    NIL    1       1     1    1      1    12    13
19 Computercentres        56    56    9    8    17    17    5    5   52          52     9    9     3       3      10   10    52    52   32    32   245    244
20 Lead Centres           NIL   NIL   NIL  NIL  NIL   NIL   NIL  NIL   6         6     NIL  NIL   NIL    NIL    NIL   NIL   NIL   NIL  NIL   NIL    6          6
21Mantenance Centres    NIL   NIL    1    1    1        1    NIL  NIL   3        3    NILNIL    1          1      1     1    NIL    1    1    NIL    8         8
22 Malntenance Cells      56    56    7    7          16    16    5    5   50    50     6    6     3       3      12   12    52    52   32    32   239   239
23 Additional Hostel      160   160   NIL  NIL  912   912  270  270  860        860    40   40   NIL    NIL    285   150   NIL   NIL  645   645  3172   3037
places for men
students                                                I
24 Additional Hostel     2044  2044  360  240  641   641   300  240  1206    1206   70   70   NILIL    NIL   1500  1200  1215  1215  410   410  7746   7266
places for women
students
25 Newfacultyresidences  43    43    21   14   280   280   50   53   40          40    74   74   NIL    NIL    100   100    70    70   56    56   734   730
26 New staff residences    24    24    12   7   118   118   64   65   78         78    48   48   NIL    NIL    115   113    50    43   45    45   554   541
27 Co-ed project polys In   15    15   NIL  NIL   6     6    4    4    6         6    NiL  NIL  NIL    NIL        1    1    NIL   NIL   10   10    42    42
rural areas (Numbers)
28 Women project polyS    6      6     1    1   NIL   NIL               NIL     NIL  MNL  NIL   NIL    NIL    NIL   NIL   NIL   NIL  NIL   NIL    8            8
In rural areas
(Numbers)
29   mmunltympolys         6    NIL   NIL  NIL  NIL   NIL   NIL  NIL  16         15     5    5    NIL    NIL      4     4    NIL   NIL    9       9    40    33
under Project
l(Numbers)



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex -11
STUDENT FACULTY RATIO - ACTUAL
25-
2n21.02
20                                             18.7
15 -  *14.8           13.86         "14A               15.814
10-                                          M~~~~~~~~~~~~~11.86
9.54             9.32
5.
0
AP     AS      iA      HP      MA    NCTD    PO       PU      TN      WB
* Minor variations will occur in the ratio when estimated each year



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex - III (1 OF 2)
FACULTY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMME                           ANDHRA PRADESH          ASSAM             HARYANA            HIMACHAL        MAHARASHTRA
_______  ______       _______                ~PRADESH
PERSON  PERSON  PERSON PERSONS PERSON  PERSONS PERSON IPERSON  PERSON  PERSONS
MONTHS      S    MONTHS TRAINED  MONTHS  TRAINED  MONTHS    S    MONTHS TRAINED
TRAINED                                                 TRAINED
TRAINING IN INDIA                                             711       53      2047     132      2235       113       111       6      1029       67
LONG TERM TRAINING____ _______
SHORT TERM TRAINING                                           235      506      74       103       415       256       123      155      612      1110
a) TECHNOLOGICAL CONTENT UPDATING
b) RESOURCE PERSONS TRAINING (FACULTY)                        99       350      25       32        52        44        10       58       16        17
C) INSTRUCTiONAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT                        96       256       12      28        61        32         6       19       40        160
DEVELOPMENT WORKSHOPS                                         70       277       15      45        18        61        13       30       31        124
d) MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES
e) TRAINING FOR MPECS, INSTITUTIONAL AUTONOMY                  6        24       19       49       14        29         5       18       62        448
f) INDUCTION TRAINING                                         298      302      174      149       30        55        19       27       955       955
g) INDUSTRIAL TRAINING OF FACULTY                             73       214       67      120       29        29        24       34      1410       491
h) COMPUTER APPLICATIONS FOR FACULTY                          357      543      144       83       338       292       81       118      50        100
I) NATIONAL REGIONAL SEMINARS, WORKSHOPS ETC.                 101       64      33       32        31        39        11       26        0         0
SUB TOTAL(A)                                                 2046      2589    2610      773      3223       950       403      491     4205      3472
SUB TOTAL TARGET(A)                                          1401      2061    2640      340      3220       766       450      275     4600      3264
FOREIGN TRAINING                                              51        17      37        13       42         15       36       12       21         9
a) FOREIGN FELLOWSHIPS
b) FOREIGN STUDY TOURS                                         1        2        3        5         1                   3        4        4         5
SUB TOTAL(B)                                                  52        19       40       18       43         16       39       16       25        14
SUB TOTAL TARGET(B)                                           58        21       42       18       52         18       40       18       86        27
SUPPORTING STAFF DEVELOPMENT
a) LAB MANAGEMENT WORKSHOPS                                   45       176       25       18        1         1        70       30       559       445
b) INDUSTRIAL TRAINING OF WORKSHOP AND LAB                    111      230      109       47        1         1         -        -       65        52
INSTRUCTORS
c) OFFICE MANAGEMENT WORKSHOPS                                103      218       10       19        1         1                           60       240
d) MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT                                   52        49       2        4         4         10
TOTAL A+B ACHIEVEMENT                       2098     2608    2650       791      3265       966      442      507      4230      3486
TOTAL TARGET (A & B)                      1459      2082    2682      358      3272       784       490      293     4666      3291
SUB TOTAL C (ACHIEVEMENT)                     311      673      146       88        7         13       70       30       684       737
TARGET-C                              311      311
* Persons trained the same faculty trained in more than one area In many polytechnics



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
FACULTY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT                                                           Anx-II(  F2
PROGRAMME                           NCT DELHI        PONDICH-ERRY          PUNJAB           TAMIL NADU        WEST BENGAL            TOTAL
PERSON  PERSONS  PERSON  PERSONS  PERSON  PERSONS  PERSON  PERSONS  PERSON  PERSONS  PERSON   PERSONS
MONTHS TRAINED MONTHS TRAINED MONTHS TRAINED MONTHS TRAINED MONTHS TRAINED MONTHS TRAINED
A TR.AINING IN INDIA
__LONG TERM TRAINING                                 486       24       234       1 2      342       19        -        -        310       15      7505      441
SHORT TERM TRAINING
ajT_-ECHNOLOGICAL coNTENT uPDATinNG                204      388   __12          32       508      535      1871      1451      692      273      4745      4809
b) RESOURCE PERSONS TRAINING (FACULTY)              5        18        -        -         5        7         --                60        77       272       603
c) INSTRUCTIONAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT             18 1  40           34        45       20        33        -                 83       196       369    - 809
DEVELOPMENT WORKSHOPS 
d) MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES               36        77        1         5       60       108       25        35        40       84       309       846
e) TRAJNING FOR MPECS, INSTITUTIONAL                5         1        -         -        3        4         4        14        6    ~12          124       639
A U O OYAU T O N O M Y________________________                                                                     _________________________________ _________________________________   ________________________________  
f) INDUCTION TRAINING                              90       116       52        66       80        90        -         -       105       105      1803  t1865
g) INDUSTRIAL TRAINING OF FACULTY                -82         39        -                 74        70      1 000     400       761       120     3520      1517
h) COMPUTER APPLICATIONS FOR FACULTY               50        83       23        59       30 1 600                 I       -    878      361      1951      1699
I) NATIONAL REGIONAL SEMINARS, WORKSHOPS           15        71        -        -        15   1 61           --                76        156      2849
SUB TOTAL(A)                                       991 1  897         355      219      1137      987      2900      1900     3011      1399    20880    13677
ISUB TOTAL TARGET(A)                               1043      971      439       185      1170     738      3430      1900      3980     1362    22373    11862
B FOREIGN TRAINING                                    21   I 7           23        8        32       1 1       45        17       80        27       388      136
a) FOREIGN FELLOWSHIPS
b) FOREIGN STUDY TOURS        --_          _-       3        4         1        2       -~2        3         2        3         3         6        23       35
SUB TOTAL(B)                                       24        1 1      24        1 0      34        1 4      47        20       83        33       411       171
SUB TOTAL TARGET(B)                                38 1  16           31        1 2      89        32        9        22       87 1  34           562  I2181
C SUPPORTING STAFF DEVELOPMENT            ____                     _j___    ___1                                                           _
a) LAB MANAGEMENT WORKSHOPS                         6         3        -        -        1         0---721                                                  7~13--
-- 6~    -13-1__                       30_         +_-
b) INDUSTRIAL TRAINING OF WORKSHOP AND LAB          6        6         - I -             14       152        -                 107       32       503       520
INSTRUCTORS                                                                              10___    _____                       ___                         ___ 
c) OFFICE MANAGEMENT WORKSHOPS                      5        1 8       -         -        9        1 0       -    V --                    -       188       506
d) MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT                         1        5         -                 21   1 25           -                  12       24        92       117
TOTAL A+B ACHIEVEMENT                    1015      908      379      229       1171  1l100       2947      1920      3094  11432       21291  113848
TOTAL TARGET (A & B)                   1081      987      470       197      1259     770      3489      1922      4067     1396     22935    12080
ISUB TOTAL C(ACHIEVEMENT)                        1 8       42        0        0        149      217        0        0        119       56    ___
TARGET -C                          -         -        -                 170J   315          -         -        -   j -           481       626
Persons trained the same faculty trained in more than one area in many polytechnics.



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex -IV
DEVELOPMENT INNOVATIVE STRATEGIES - MODEL ONE
ASSISTANCE IN
INDUSTRY        ~CURRICULUM
|  INDUSTITUTEDEVELOPMENT                     C     [
INTERACTION                AND                 EDUCATION
IMPLEMENTATION
_|INSTITUTIONAL  L
GOVERNANCE _
CARETAKER
Lo.   INDUSTRY      CURRICULUM            PASSOUT
ASSISTANCE            EMPLOY
MENT
SERVICES TO|
| INDUSTRY 
SPREAD OF INNOVATIONS - MODEL TWO
ANALYSIS OF            CONTINUING
TRAINING FOR          CONTINUING OFU_TFOR
INDUSTRY            EDUCATION             PERSONNEL
IN POLY                FROM
INDUSTRY
CORPORATE
SCHOOLS
KNOWLEDGE         SKILLS
TRANSFER      DEVELOPMENT
INTERNSHIP
- PRODUCTION,
SERVICE
CENTRE



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex -V
DEVELOPMENT OF STRATEGIES FOR ENHANCING PARTICIPATION OF WOMEN
MODEL THREE
z   \           t STARTING ) , I o ~FREESHIPS
PARTICIPATION                  OF
OF        R             WOMEN
WOMEN                    FRIENDLY
PROGRAMM
\    - LOW  -  s          __EM
WOMEN
POLYS
AND
} s i ~~WINGS                           *0 a  x a+ ,.a   .,
BETTER      .              PLIC             EMPLOY-   *
FACILITIES                SUPPOIRT    *        MENT
OF 
- HOSTELS                 RESERVA-          WOMEN
TION FOR         PASSOUTS
\   )          \  lJllo^^esl  w    *+    +4 
e~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U MUE U 5^



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex - VI (1 OF 2)
KEY QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY INDICATORS
S.NO                    COMPONENTS                      ANDHRA PRADESH          ASSAM             HARYANA          HIMACHAL PRADESH        MAHARASHTRA
T        A        T         A         T         A          T          A         T          A
1   Polys in which labs modernised, Numbers              56       56        8         8        15        15          4          4         26        41
(cumulative during project period)
2   Labs modernised, Numbers                             896      895       102      102       172       172         77         77       442        436
(cumulative during project period)
3   Curricula revised In last five years(%)              100      100       100      100io     100       100        100                   95        100
(cumulative during project period)
4   New curricula developed, Numbers                      6        7        2         2        17         17         4           4        35        35
(cumulative during project period)
5   % Women students enroled                             30        33       25       16        12         19         25         22        20        26
(DURING 1998)
6   % SCtST1OBC students enroled                         21        50       25       55        12         47         25         31        45        47
(DURING 1998)
7   % Rural students enroled                             40        46       60       49        50         55         80         80        50        44
(DURING 1998)
8   Average student dropout rate(%/)                      3        3        3         7         5         8          6           3        20         6
(DURING 1997-1998)
9   Average student pass rate(%)                         75        64       70       50        80         73         90         90        80        74
(DURING 1997-1998)
10   Average passout employment rate(*/.)                 90       90       70        25        90        55         50          42       60         58
(DURING 1997-1998)
11   Average passout undertaidngself employment (°h)     N.A       N.A      N.A       15       N.A        10         N.A         10       NA.        5
12   Average passouts pursuing higher studies(,/.)       N.A      28%       N.A       2        NA          9         N.A         1        N.A.       19
(DURING 1998)
13   Polytechnics with MPECS, Numbers                     7         7        9        9          1         1          1          1         12        12
(cumulative during project period)
14   Polytechnics awarded autonomy, Numbers               7         7       NIL      NIL        NIL        1         NIL        NIL        12        12
(cumulative during project period)
15   Counselling Cells for women students                NIL       15       NIL       NIL       NIL       16         NIL        NIL       NIL        12
16   Placement Cells for Students                        NIL       56        9        8         NIL       16         NIL        NIL        45        45
17   Average Contact days per year                       N.A       180      N.A       180       NIL       140        N.A        140       NA.        165
NOTE: MPECS- REFERS TO MULTI POINT ENTRY AND CREDIl SYSTEM W HICH, WHEN INTRODUCED, TENDS TO REDUCE THE DROPOUT RATE
T - TARGET           A - ACHIEVEMENT



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex - VI (2 OF 2)
KEY QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY INDICATORS
S.NO                 COMPONENTS                       NCT DELHI       PONDICHERRY         PUNJAB        TAMIL NADU      WEST BENGAL            TOTAL
T        A       T        A        T       A       T       A        T        A        T         A
1   Polys In which labs modernised, Numbers         8        8       3        3        14      14      36      52      28        28       198      229
(cumulative during project period)
2   Labs modernised, Numbers                       238      238      36       36       139     139    227    227       139      236      2468      2558
(cumulative during project period)
3   Curricula revised in last five years(%)        100      100     100      100      100      100     100    100      100      100       100      100
(cumulative during project period)
4   New curricula developed, Numbers               18        1 8     4        4        11      11      29      49       18       18       144      165
(cumulative during project period)
5   %Women students enroled                        35        30      40       42       40      35      50      40       20       22      15.70    28.42
(DURING 1998)
6   % SC/ST/OBC students enroled                   23        27      45       83       25      30      69      69       28       28      31.70    46.74
(DURING 1998)
7   % Rural students enroled                       12        10      50       53       26      45      40      40       50       55      45.80     46%
(DURING 1998)                                                                                    _                  2        2      .         _    _
8   Average student dropout rate(%)                 3        3       2        2        10      10       2       2       2        2       5.60      4.57
(DURING 1997-1998)
9   Average passout undertaking self employment    N.A       5      N.A               N.A       0      N.A      2      N.A       17       N.A      7.52
(%)
10   Average passouts pursuing higher studies(%)   N.A       10      N.A       7       N.A      6      N.A      14     N.A       18       N.A      11.45
(DURING 1998)
11   Poiytechnics with MPECS, Numbers               2        2        1       NIL       1       1       10      10       1          1      45       44
(cumulative during project period)
12   Polytechnics awarded autonomy, Numbers        NIL       NIL      1       NIL       1       55      10      10       2        2        33       36
(cumulative during project period)
13   Counselling Cells for women students           2        2       NIL      3        NIL      13     NIL    NIL       NIL       3       NIL       12
14   Placement Cells for Students                   9         9      NIL       3       NIL       17    NIL    NIL       32       32       NIL       45
15   Average Contact days per year                 N.A   -140        N.A      180      N.A    185      N.A    160       N.A      160      N.A       163
NOTE: MPECSRG REFERS TO MULTI POINT ENTRY AND CREDIT SYSTEM WHICHt WHEr  n    INTRODUCEDv , TENS TO REDUCE THiE DROPOUT RATE
T - TARGET     ~A - ACHIEVEMENT          Three Proposed to Government, Awaiting approval ____________________



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex -Vll
SPACE UTILISATION - NEW CONSTRUCTION
U CLASSROOM             a HOSTEL
100
90
80
70
60
50
.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
~40
30
20
10
0
AP      HA       HP       MA      NCTD     PU       WB    PROJECT
*  (Calculation from 25 polytechnics or less and 6 class rooms in each sample
polytechnic)
*  % Class Room Utilisation = % Room Frequency x % Room Occupancy
IN VESTMENT IN EQUIPMENT PER STUDENT
100-
80-
60-
40-
20                                                                          -
0   ..    .   . ....
NCTO    TN    AP    PO    MA    Ws    AS    PU    HA    HP   PROJECT
Caclain rma sample of 25 polytechnics or less
*  Total investment /Total student strength estimated



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex -VIII
HI-TECH EQUIPMENT UTILIZATION
30002
* Rs. Per Student
2500-                                              2180      2380
2000- 
1630      1630
1500-
1000-              750
500
500_
0-
NCTD       HA         PO        MA         PU        AP         AS
EQUIPMENT LIFE - 8 YEARS
COMPUTER CENTRE UTILIZATION
5000
4500s               i Rs. Per Student
4000
3500
3000-
2500-
2000-
1500-
1000-
500
0
AP      AS      HA      MA      PO      PU      NCTD    WB       HP
EQUIPMENT LIFE - 5 YEARS
*(Calculation on the basis of - investment per student beneficiary per year in sampled
polytechnics )



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex -IX
CONTINUING AND DISTANCE EDUCATION BENEFICIARIES -
ANNUAL
7-
7  BENEFICIARIES IN THOUSANDS
6
5-
4-  _
AP       HA       MA       NCTD      PU       TN       WB
STUDENT BENEFITING FROM INTERACTION WITH INDUSTRY
90-                              f
0  80-
70-
0
10-
40 -:-IX.K
30A *SHfPfANTDP UlNw
20       f    f     f     f     fl      l     l     l     l
AP AS    HA    HP    MA   NCTD   P0    PU    TN    WB



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
CIVIL CONSTRUCTION
Annex -X
UNIT COST
14  _  Average Unit Cost
14T
12
10
64;-                                 ± 4                 +                               
2
0       I      I     I      I     I      I            I      I
AP    AS    HA    HP    MA   NCTD   PO    PU    TN    WB
DELAYS
50                                       -  Average Delays
45
40
35
30
25
10
5
AP   AS   HA   HP   MA  NCTD  P0   PU   TN   WB



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex -Xi
UNIT TRAINING COST
Rs. In Thousands per year per student
30-
EJ28
25-
20        19.1           AVERAGE 16.75
20-           -                  Li          18
........... L                      *....EIJ...........9^Z1
15-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
15  12.3                               1
014.7                            1.
10 -
5-
0      ,                         I              ,
AP   AS   HA   HP   MA  NCTD  PO   PU   TN   WB
ANNUAL INCOME AS % OF RECURRING EXPENSES
RATIO IN PERCENTAGE
25-
20 -
15 -
AVERAGE 8.23
10 '
. w **..******"****** Eu...."-"° "-""-"Z.-."""
5-
0-
AP     HA     HP    MA   NCTD    PU         TN    Wm



TECH ED-11(2223 IN) FER
EMPLOYMENT OF PASSOUTS
Annex -Xll (1 of 3)
CIVIL ENGINEERING
100                                                      * 100
80                                          - 0
i. 73
60                                                                         A
000 000    0 0 93' -.1  ~~-- AS
' 60  /  , * ' _ t46.9                             - PU
40 -           / _                                                    -'   -MA
20                                                 - __   23
0
12                   24                     36
MONTHS TO GET EMPLOYED
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
100 
80                                   ,
60 -.- ' 0500A
--MA
---,- t _-  -PU
20 
12              24               36
MONTHS TO GET EMPLOYED
* (Data from Tracer Studies - 1995)



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
EMPLOYMENT OF PASSOUTS
Annex -Xil (2 of 3)
ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
100                         -      r
80                                                      --AP
a                                   --~~~~~~~~~~WB
a .      /         j                                  MA
a  / v.
~60-
. B..~~~01:
a
40 -  /
20
12          24           36
MONTHS TO GET EMILOYED
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
100                                    ,
80           /t         _t ' /'
v -            -
60       -                                                    -e- AP
E'                - ,                           -  -MA
;  . ,          ,                                --PU
3 40 -               <                    ,.' - AS
40 -         -- 
20 -
12              24              36
MONTHS TO GEr EMPLOYE
*(Data from Tracer Studies - 1995)



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
EMPLOYMENT OF PASSOUTS
Annex -Xil (3 of 3)
COMPUTER ENGINEERING
100-                    of              , 
80 -                       0 -  -
0   -
60-                                                          - AP
3  -MA
X40 -  0
20 -
12             24              36
MONTHS TO GET EMPLOYED



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex - XIII (1 OF 2)
STATEWISE PROJECT EXPENDIUTRE
(Rs. in Million)
CATEGORY OF      ANDHRA PRADESH            ASSAM                HARYANA                N P               MAHARASHTRA              NCTD
EXPENDITURE
TOTAL    CUMULA TIVE   TOTAL    CUMULATIVE   TOTAL    CUMULATIVE   TOTAL   CUMULA TIVE   TOTAL    CUMULATIVE    TOTAL    CUMULATIVE
PROJECT   EXPENDITURE  PROJECT  EXPENDITURE  PROJECT  EXPENDITURE  PROJECT  EXPENDITURE  PROJECT  EXPENDITURE  PROJECT  EXPENDITURE
PROVISION            PROVISION             PROVISION             PROVISION            PROVISION             PROVISION
(A) INVESTMENT     650.000    630.567    343.000     346.52    800.000    821.543    239.000    227.865   1092.000   1090.401    317.382    306.859
COSTS Civil
Works
Fumiture            49.000     50.597     16.000     22.939    40.000     35.396     14.250     13.261     75.000     83.116     12.000    12.000
Vehicles             0.165      0.165      4.000      3.759    26.000     18.081      5.500      5.491     16.500     15.464      1.760      1.760
Equipment          488.300    486.649    123.000    129.180    520.000    457.819    146.150    142.073   1039.000   1027.176   94.588     94.513
Local Fellowship/   10.000   10.000        7.600     10.425     9.000      9.247      1.300      1.112     18.000     17.928     7.000      6.810
Training__                                                                                    _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Foreign              7.500      6.751      6.200      4.986     10.000     5.850      4.700      4.682      3.581      3.581     3.752      3.276
Fellowship
Local Consultant     1.000      1.000      2.000      1.756     0.700      0.176      0.300      0.259      1.936      1.936     0.100       0.100
Foreign              0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000     0.000      0.000      0 .000     0.000      0.000      0.000     0.000      0.00C
Consultant
Books               20.335     20.267      7.635      7.448    20.300     15.466     11.250     11.227     60.000     60.626     15.206     15.206
Scholarship          0.000      0.000      0.200      0.000     0.000      0.000      1.350      1.342      0.000      0.000      4.100      4.051
Sub Total (A)     1226.300   1205.996    509.635    527.013   1426.000   1363.578    423.800    407.312   2306.017   2300.228    455.888    444.575
(B) RECURRENT      148.000    152.329     31.000     26.347    147.000    162.359    38.600     38.573    265.000    271.416     71.969     71.803
COSTS
Salaries of Addl.
staff_ _                                                                              _  __                          _  _    __   _  _
Consumable          28.200     27.701      8.000      9.100    24.000     40.673      9.600      9.602     43.750     43.671     10.569     10.326
Materials
Operation &          0.000      0.000      7.000      8.991     35.000    32.590      5.500      5.326     70.500     63.947      9.076      9.074
Maintenance                                           _
Sub Total (B)      176.200    180.030     46.000     44.438    206.000    235.622    53.700     53.501    379.250    379.034     91.614     91.203
GRAND TOTAL       1402.500   1386.026    555.635    571.451   1632.000   1599.200    477.500    460.813   2685.267   2679.262    547.502    535.778
(A+B)                                                             I_____I
% UTILISATION                  98.83                                                                                   .
___ __ __ __   _ ___ __ __ __ __ __102.85      _  _ _ _     97.99                96.51                 99.78    _  _ _ _     97.86



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex - XUI[ (2 OF 2)
STATEWISE PROJECT EXPENDITURE
(Rs. in Million)
CATEGORY OF        PONDICHERRY               PUNJAB              TAMIL NADU        WEST BENGAL           NPIU & TlTls              GRAND TOTAL
EXPENDITURE   _CUMU_ATIVE
TOTAL    CUMULA TIVE    TOTAL   CUMULATIVE   TOTAL  CUMULATIVE  TOTAL  CUMUTIVE    TOTAL   CUMULATIVE    TOTAL    CUMULATIVE  BALANCE
PROJECT   EXPENDITURE   PROJECT  EXPENDITURE    PROJECT EXPENDITURE PROJECT EXPENDITURE  PROJECT  EXPENDIrURE   PROJECT  EXPENDITURE
PROVISION              PROVISION              PROVISION          PROVISION           PROVISION             PROVISION
(A) INVESTMENT     105.000      108.474    562.900     562.900  318.000    252.316  626.790    629.216     0.000      0.000   5054.072   4976.661    77.411
COSTS Civil
Works                                             ______
Fumiture            7.000        7.269     36.100       28.093   30.280     28.795   60.000    61.955      0.085      0.000    339.715    343.421    -3.706
Vehicles            2.250        2.253      9.700        9.744    0.620      0.615    3.000     3.730      0.000      0.000     69.495     61.062    8.433
Equipment          46.300       47.768    271.730      259.547  522.000    521.819  468.174    481.638    60.513     53.454   3779.755   3701.636    78.119
Local Fellowshil/   0.900        1.018      4.500        3.323   33.500     29.590    9.000     8.819      1.200      1.379    102.000     99.651    2.349
Foreign Fellowship  2.200        3.013      5.100        4.788    8.000     7.816   11.000      10.084    10.200      8.527     72.233     63.354    8.879
Local Consuitant    0.000        0.000      0.060        0.060    0.300      0.000   15.000     14.053     5.500      1.248     26.896     20.588    6.308
Foreign Consultant  0.000        0.000      0.000        0.000    0.000     0.000    0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000    0.000
Books               5.000        5.934     25.100       23.841   28.000    27.266   52.000     49.426      4.202      2.818    249.028    239.525    9.503
Scholarship         0.000        0.000      0.860        0.860    0.000     0.000    0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000      6.510      6.253    0.257
Sub Total (A)      168.865     175.729    916.050      893.156  940.700    868.217 1244.964   1258.921    81.700     67.426   9699.704   9512.151   187.553
(B) RECURRENT       16.300       18.393    116.500     134.152   20.000     15.267   40.000    44.407      9.000      3.796    903.369    938.842   -35.473
COSTS Salaries
of Addi. Staff                         _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ __               _ _             _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
Consumable           2.000        1 988    40.000       39.969   30.000     26.519   18.000    25.072      4.000      0.408    218.119    235.029   -16.910
M aterials      _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __       _ _ _ _   _ _ _ __                        _ _ _ _
Operation &          3.100       2.991     50.000       49.994    8.400      3.558   95.000    95.291     26.900     14.794    310.476    286.556    23.920
Maintenance
Sub Total (B)       21.400      23.372    206.500      224.115   58.400     45.344  153.000    164.770    39.900     18.998   1431.964   1460.427   -28.463
GRAND TOTAL      190.050      199.101   1122.550     1117.271  999.100    913.561  1397.964   1423.691    121.600  86.424  11131.668  10972.578   159.090
(A+B)      I__   _                 _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _    _  _ _  _ _ _ _
% UTILISATION                 104.76                  99.53                91.44              101.84                 71.07
_______________~~~ __ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   .__ _  _   _ _ __ _  _ _ _ _ _    98.57



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
ANNEXE - XIV
PARTICIPATION OF WOMEN STUDENTS IN POLYTECHNICS
STATES                PRE-PROJECT             POST-PROJECT
ANDHRA PRADESH                    20%                      33.3%
ASSAM                            10.50%                     16%
HARYANA                           5.80%                     19%
HIMACHAL PRADESH                 14.83%                    22%
MAHARASHTRA                       12%                       26%
NCTof DELHI                       21%                       30%
PONDICHERRY                       22%                      42%
PUNJAB                            14%                       35%
TAMIL NADU                         30%                      40%
WEST BENGAL                        5%                       22%
o  Participation of women's students in technician education was 15% at the beginning of
the project which increase to 28.4% at the end of the project.
STRATEGIES ADOPTED BY PROJECT STATES TO ENHANCE WOMEN'S
PARTICIPATION
o RESERVATION OF SEATS FOR WOMEN STUDENTS IN CO-ED POLYTECHNICS:
Andhra Pradesh (30%), Maharashtra (25),NCTD (7.5%) have introduced reservation.
0  NUMBER OF POLYTECHNICS STARTED EXCLUSIVELY FOR WOMEN: 11 New
women polytechnics and 5 wings for women in co-ed polytechnics have been
established.
o  SPECIAL POLYTECHNICS FOR WOMEN BELONGING TO SC/ST/OBC:   6
polytechnics have been established exclusively for women belonging to the
disadvantaged groups in Andhra Pradesh.
u  PUBLICITY  ABOUT  COURSES  CAREER  GROWTH  AND  EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITIES THROUGH MASS MEDIA: Video programmes were developed and
exhibited to prospective students in schools. Brochures and catalogues about technician
prospects were widely circulated.
o  PROVISION OF HOSTEL ACCOMMODATION : Efforts have been made to provide
hostel facilities to about 30% of women students.
o SCHOLARSHIPS AND FREE-SHIPS: Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Himachal
Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal provide scholarships to a large number of
students, while Punjab provides free tuition to all women students and NCTD charges
50% tuition fee from women students.
o  INITIATIVES TAKEN TO PERSUADE INDUSTRIES TO PROMOTE EMPLOYMENT OF
WOMEN PASSOUTS : Workshops, seminars and discussions have been organised
with the Confederation of Indian Industry and other organisations.



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex - XV
LIST OF MAJOR RESEARCH STUDIES UNDERTAKEN DURING 1991-98
S.No.  Name of Study Conducted           Purpose of the Study        Impact of Study             Status of the Study
1. Identifying and Developing strategies  Plan for entrepreneurial   Used in regional states.           Completed
for enhancing the Entrepreneurial      Development
traits of polytechnic students.
2. A Critical Study of the Guidance and  Analysis of Counselling     Selection of courses/Specification  Completed
Counselling cells working in the      Activities                  as per the interest/performance
Maharashtra Polytechnics.                                         of students
3. Development of a system for           Systems development         Appreciation and improvement of    Completed
Polytechnic Passout Employment.                                   employment of passouts in
various states.
4. Efficiency of Integrated              Curriculum                  Inputs to CDCs, LRDCs and III cells    Completed
Instructional Strategies in           implementation              of region.
improving Teaching Learning           improvement
Process in Polytechnics.
5. Evolving Models of                    Strategy design             Improved consensus management      Completed
Participatory governance and                                      practices in polytechnics
intemal management of
polytechnics.
6. A critical study of curriculum        curriculum Development at   Demand Driven and Labour Market    Completed
design models of technician            St.Xavier's Polytechnics   Oriented Curriculum Design and
competencies required by the                                             Development
industry.
7. A snap study on the effectiveness     Teacher capability          Impact of TTTI induction programme    Completed
of induction programmes.              development and application   effort
8. Alternative funding pattems in        Determining alternatives for    Strategy development for future and    Completed
Autonomous Polytechnics.               Financial resource gaps    data for policy Formulation
9. A National study on enhancing         Women Passout employment-  Strategy Improvement                Completed
employability of women passout         Current System Analysis
from polytechnics.
10  TracerStudyon Employment Statusof      To      determine     the  The findings of the study          Completed
Polytechnic Passouts                  employment   status   of submitted to the states so
polytechnic pssouts vis-a-vis  as to initiate corrective
the  effectiveness  of the  measures.
training under gone



TECHED-11(2223 IN) FER
Annex- XVI
LIST OF MAJOR SEMINARS/WORKSHOPS CONDUCTED DURING THE PROJECT
Date of completion
S.No.  T I T L E                               or expected date    Purpose/Outcome             Impact
of completion
1.    National seminar on "Strategies for      Jan 94              Strategy design             Strategy development with
Enhancing participation of Women in                                                    follow up plan
Technician Education"
2.    National workshop on Managing Examination   Feb 94           Current situations analysis  Future development strategies
Reforms
3.    In-country programme on Competency       May 98              Strategy design             Future development strategy
Based Curriculum
4.    In-country programme on Planning         July 98              Proposal design using      Future development strategy
Designing & implementing Autonomy                            alternative strategies/models
5.     National       Seminar       on       21-22 August, 1997    To  thrash  out  various As a result of participation by
Entrepreneurship    and    Small                            problems and issues facing  entrepreneurs,  potential
Business Development                                        the enterprises, creation, entrepreneurs, academicians,
start ups, management and  researchers, consultants, the
growth strategies for small useful deliberations were held.
and medium enterprises   Recommendations were made
and circulated. A book on
entrepreneurship and small
business was published.
6.     National Conference on Re-             16-17 July, 1998     To deliberate on various The seminar made useful
Engineering of polytechnics                                issues         concerning  recommendations for
Education                                                   polytechnic education, find  reshaping polytechnic
out gaps  and  suggest education.
remedial measures



TECHED-1i(2223 IN) FER
Annex XVII
LIST OF MAJOR PUBLICATIONS OF NPIU
o Quarterly News Letter (up to 1997)
o Directory of Innovations in Polytechnics
o Posters for Promoting Participation of Women,
o List of Learning Resources
o List of Specifications for Equipment.
o Report on National Discussions on Autonomy held at Pune.
o National Policy Initiatives Document.
O Research Report on Employability of Women in Technician Education.



