D)ocument of
The World Bank
F'OR ()FFItIA I. t SF ONLY
Report No. QO* 3-I N
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
MARCH 8, 1991
Asia Country Department I\ (India)
Population, Human Resources, Urban and Water Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and man be used bv recipients only in the periornnance of
their official duties. Its contents man not otherwise be disclosed wAithout W'orld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1991)
Currency Unit = Rupee
Rupee 19.43 = US$ 1.00
Rupee 1.00 = US$ 0.051
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 Meter (m)       = 3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km) = 0.62 Miles
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AICTE        -     All India Council for Technical Education
BTE          -     Bureau of Technical Education
DEA          -     Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance
DGS&D        -     Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals
DOE          -     Department of Education, Ministry of Human Resources
Development
DTE          -     Directorate of Technical Education
DPR          -     Detailed Project Reports
EFC          -     Expenditure and Finance Committee, Ministry of Finance
EDCIL        -     Education Consultants India Ltd.
GOI          -     Government of India
IAMR         -     Institute for Applied Manpower Research
IIT          -     Indian Institute of Technology
ITI         -      Industrial Training Institute
MHRD         -     Ministry of Human Resources Development
NBA          -     National Board of Accreditation
NTMIS        -     National Technical Manpower Information System
NPE          -     National Policy on Education (1986)
NPIU         -     National Project Implementation Unit
PFU          -     Project Facilitation Unit
TTTI         -     Technical Teacher Training Institute
SPIU        -      State Project Implementation Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents                          Page No.
BASIC DATA ........                                                                 iv
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........................................    v
I. TECHNICIAN EDUCATION IN INDIA
A.  Introduction .............................................                1
B.  Organization of Technical Education ......................    2
C.  Management and Administration of Technical Education .....                3
D.  Problems and Issues in Technician Education ...............    3
II. GOVERNMENT POLICIES, PLANS AND PROGRAMS IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION
A.  National Policy On Education ..............................    4
B.  The Eighth Five-Year Plan (1990-94) .......................    5
C. The Ten-Year Technician Education Investment
Program (1990-99) ................  .......................    5
D.  Financing of Technician Education ........................    6
E.  External Financing of Education ...........................    6
F.  IDA Role and Sector Lending Strategy .....              ................  7
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Goals and Objectives .....................................               8
B.  Scope ............         ........................................    10
C.  Capacity Expansion .......................................   10
D.  Quality Improvement ................. I .....................   13
E.  Efficiency Improvement  ...................................   14
IV. COSTS, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.  Costs ............         .......................................      16
B.  Financing Plan ..........................................    18
C.  Recurrent Cost Implications .............................    18
D.  Status of Preparation ...................................               18
E.  Project Management/Implementation .......................    19
F.  Monitoring, Review and Evaluation .......................    21
G.  Disbursements  ...........................................              21
H.  Procurement .........           ....................................    22
I.  Accounting and Auditing .................................    24
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal mission from November 28-
December 14, 1990.  Mission members were Mr. R. Cambridge (Principal
Economist, Team Leader), E Sigl (Technical Educator), Ms. A. Nazareth
(Educational Planner), and E. Dib (Architect, Consultant). Ms. M. Chatterji,
(Secretary NDO) and Ms. S. Pak assisted in preparing the Report. The
processing of the project was supervised by Mr. R. Skolnik, Chief, Population,
Human Resources, Urban and Water Operations Division (AS4PW) and Mr. H.
Vergin, Director of the India Country Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii -
Page No.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  Benefits .................................................    24
B.  Risks ............      .......................................    25
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED ..........................................    25
TABLES
3.1   Objectives, Investments and Desired Outcomes ....        ............  9
4.1   Project Costs by Component ..................................   17
4.2   Project Costs by Categories of Expenditure ...................    17
4.3   Procurement Method ..........................................    23
ANNEXES
1.   Government Polytechnics by Project State showing Annual Enrollments
(1988/89) .....................................................    27
2.   Guidelines for Recogniti3n of Private Polytechnics ............    28
3.   The Technical Education System in India .......................    29
4.   Problems and Issues in Technical Education ....................    34
5.   The Ten-Year (1990-99) Technician Education Investment Program    40
6.   Present Fee Structure at Polytechnics in Project States .......    42
7.   Criteria for Selection of States ..............................    43
8.   Detailed Project Components by State ..........................    45
9.   Summary of New Technology Courses to be Offered ...............    46
10.  New Co-educational Polytechnics by State ......................    49
11.  Multi-Point Entry and Credit System ...........................    51
12.  Continuing Education Centers and Departments by State .........    54
13.  Community Polytechnics by State ...............................    56
14.  New Women's Polytechnics by State .............................    58
15.  Summary of Civil Works Program ................................    59
16.  Additional Places Created in Polytechnics by State ............    60
17.  Teacher Training and Faculty and Staff Development Program ....    61
18.  Schedule of Deployment of Key Additional Staff ................    62
19.  Staff Development linked to Career Development ................    72
20.  Industry-Institute Interaction Programs by State ..............    78
21.  Technical Assistance Program ..................................    83
22.  Project Costs
Summary Costs by Components and Time ..........................    85
Summary Costs by Categories of Expenditure and Time ...........    86
Summary Costs by Component and Categories of Expenditure ......    87
23.  Financing Plan by  Component and by Categories of Expenditure.    88
24.  Recurrent Cost Implications ..................................   90
25.  Civil Works, Furniture and Equipment Procurement and
Implementation Schedules .....................................   91
26.  Key Indicators ................................................    92
27.  Project Supervision Plan ......................................    93
28.  Forecasts of Expenditures and Disbursements ...................   100
29.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files ....   101



- iii -
Page No.
DIAGRAMS/CHARTS
1.   Articulation of the Education System ......      ..................  103
2.   Technical Education System in India .........................  104
3.   Organizational Structure of Technical Education ..............  105
4.   AICTSE and its Organizations .........  .       ........................  106
5.   Organizational Structure of NPIU .............                    107
6.   National Project Directorate at BTE ..........................  108



- iv
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Basic Data /a
General
Population (million) 1988                         848
Annual Growth (Z)                                 2.2
Urban Population (Z of total)                      25
GNP per capita (US$)                              270
Population below poverty line (Z) (1983)           37
Employment in the Organized Sectors (1986)           Million    Percent
Agriculture                                         i.4          6
Industrial Sectors  /b                             12.4         49
Service Sectors                                    11.3         45
Labor Force Participation Rate _1986)    Male        Female       Total
Participation rates (Z)                   55       21           39
Labor Force by Education Level (Z) Primary & Below Secondary Higher
80             15        5
Number of Vocational Training and Technical
Education Institutions, Enrollments and Output (1986-87)
No. of                         Annual
Type                 Institutions    Enrollments       Output
Industrial Trg. Institutes
(ITI) (Government)                   852          228,278        80,350
ITI (Private)                      1,035            98,831       25,327
Advanced Voc.Trg. Schools             22            10,000       10,000
Secondary Voc. Schools             1,500            72,000       26,000
Polytechnics (AICTE approved)        467           194,000       68,000
State Eng. Colleges (SEC)            272           100,000       25,000
Regional Eng. Colleges (REC)          17            21,000        5,500
Indian Inst. of Technology (IIT)       5             4,000        1,300
Apprenticeship Training              139(trades)  131,486        49,'00
Ministry of Human Resource Development:Budget Allocations (US$ million)
Department of Education                           Plan      Non-plan
Budget Estimates (1989-90 Revised)                463.5       382.0
Budget Estimates (1990-91)                        510.7       441.1
ta    Sources: Ministry of Manpower & Ministry of Hunan Resources Development
(unless shown otherwise).
/b     Includes mining and quarrying, manufacturing, construction, public
utilities, and transport and communications. Includes employment in
establishments of 10 workers or more.



- v -
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUV1MARY
3orrower:               India, acting by its President
leneficiaries:           Governments of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana,
Himachal Pradesh. Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, and
West Bengal and The Union Territory of Delhi
.mount:                  SDR 213.5 million (US$307.1 million equivalent)
rerms:                   Standard, with 35 years maturity
)nlending Terms:         Government of India (GOI) to Andhra Pradesh, Assam,
Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil
Nadu and West Bengal and the Union Territory of Delhi:
in accordance with standard arrangements for
development assistance to States and Union Territories
for the development of education projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time.
)escription:             The goa. of the project is to support the National
Policy on Education, and more specifically, the Ten-
Year Technician Education Investment Program (1990-
99). The project is a second phase of IDA's
commitment to support the national Polytechnic System
and the Ten-Year Investment Program which seeks its
modernization and the reform of the policies which
constrain the system's flexibility to respond to the
changing needs of industry and society. The' project
would be identical to the First Technician Education
Project (Ln 3195-IN:Cr 2130-IN) and would have the
same major objectives: Capacity Expansion which would
be achieved by expanding and diversifying programs in
about 240 new and existing institutions, so that they
can undertake with flexibility, courses in new and
emerging technologies, conventional and advanced
technician engineering, and continuing education
diploma courses. Special attention would also be
given to expanding and improving training
opportunities for women, rural populations and the
informal sector by establishing new Women's
Residential Polytechnics, upgrading Coeducational
Polytechnics to create more opportunities for women,
and expanding the number of Community Polytechnics.
Quality Improvement would be achieved through
modernizing the equipment and facilities of



- vi -
Polytechnics, expanding and imprcving the quality of
training cf Polytechnic teachers and undertaking
curriculum development activities. Efficiency
Improvement would result from strengthening State
Directorates and Boards of Technical Education,
granting academic autonomy to selected Polytechnics,
undert,ting Industry-Institute Interaction programs in
each Polytechnic, encouraging internai revenue
generation in Polytechnics and establishing equipment
and facility maintenance systems.
Benefits and Risks       The proposed project would provide India's industrial
sector with technicians of suitable quality in the
areas of civil, mechanical, and electrical engineer-
ing, as well as in computer and electronics technology
and in other required new and emerging areas. The
emphasis to be given to continuing education programs
recognizes that the system must also serve the rural
and informal sectors anu update the current stock of
employed technicians. Expanded programs for women
also means that serious efforts are underway to more
fully integrate women into modern sector wage
employment. Ultimately, the major benefit of the
project beyond the numbers of students trained, is
that it would continue the policy reforms that were
initiated by Government and started under the first
Technician Education project, and support as well,
institutional development processes such as the
introduction of flexibility in student entrance and
graduation requirements, career development for
teachers, curriculum development to develop new
courses and training techniques and the institu-
tionalization of maintenance, internal revenue
generation and career counselling and employment
programs. These changes would facilitate the ability
of the system to respond to a rapidly changing
environment, and would contribute to the technology
transfer objective which is a key aspect of
development. The major risk facing the project
concerns the ability of individual States to undertake
integrated programs of both policy reform and physical
development. This risk would be mitigated by the
Annual Action Plans to be prepared by each
participating State, the Detailed Project Reports to
be prepared by each Polytechnic, by enhancing and



- viI, -
stre.tgthening the Directorates and Bcards of Technical
Education in each of the implementing States, the
support to be provided to them by the Technical
Teacher Training Institutes (TTTIs), and the key role
to be played by the strengthened central institutions,
i.e., the Bureau of Technical Education (BTE), the
National Project Directorate and the National Project
Implementation Unit (NPIU).
Estimated Costs:
Components                        Local          Foreign           Total
- --US$ million----
Capacity Expansion                     121.62           35.40          157.02
Quality Improvement                     99.33           38.82          138.15
Efficiency In.provement                 25.30            4.30           29.60
Total Base Cost                    246.25          78.52           324.77
Contingencies                 19.15           18.18           37.33
Total Project Cost*                265.40          96.70           362.10
* including taxes and duties of US$10.7 million.
Financing Plan:
States                     29.80             -             29.80
GOI                        25.20             -             25.20
TDA                       210.40          96.70           307.10
Total      265.40          96.70          362.10
Estimated
Disbursements:   FY92   FY93   FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99
13.3   34.3   60.4    61.7    46.6    36.7    33.2    15.9
13.3   52.6  113.0   174.7   221.3   258.0   291.2   307.1
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable.



- 1 -
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
I. TECHNICL'.N EDUCATION IN INDIA
A. Introduction
1.01     India is in the process of modernizing its industrial sector.  Tthe kky
aspects of these de.jelopments include the importation of new technologies f(r the
design and production of durable goods, the reorganization of industrial
managempnt and the restructuring of public enterprises. To achieve this, a
number of steps have been taken to reform the overall policy regime and make it
more conducive to the promotion of competition, modernization, and cost
efficiency, with an emphasis on easing entry or expansion of incunbent firms, anid
the recognition of efficient scales of production. The shortage of technically
educated people and people with high quality industrial skills is a major
impediment to India's industrial development. The technical education systenl has
grown enormously in the past few decades. It has also diversified extensively.
Yet, it faces today a number of important problems that limit its potential
contribution to increased industrialization. First, significant segments of the
cural population and women have only limited access to the system. Second, the
quality and efficiency of the system are low. There is a shortage of qualified
teachers, training materials are lacking, equipment is obsolete, and courses are
not as relevant to modern sector industry as needed. As a result, student
repetition is high and the system is not producing educated people of the type,
quality or quantity needed.
1.02     The Government of India (GOI) is placing increasing emphasis on human
resource development and the alleviation of poverty. Substantial progress has
been achieved as indicated in the rise of the literacy rate from 172 in 1951 to
36Z in 1981, and for women it rose from 8% to 25Z in the same period. In spite
of these achievements, the number of illiterates grew from about 200 million to
400 million over the same period and for the age group 10-14, the literacy rate
rose only from 23% in 1951 to 25Z in 1981. In comparison with other developing
countries in the region, India's social services are still less effective and
extensive. The adult literacy rate, for example is well below Malaysia (732) and
China (76%). In addition, the primary school enrollment ratio is only 79% in
India compared to the attainment of close to Universal Primary Education for the
appropriate age group in Malaysia, China, Korea and Thailand. It is important to
note however, that within India, there are considerable variations among regions.
1.03     In 1986, the GOI formulated a National Polcy on Education (NPE) which
includes a Ten-Year Technician Education Investment Program (para 2.06) for the
upgrading of the technician education and training system. That program would
introduce new diploma programs with the emphasis on new and emerging
technologies, expand programs for women and rural populations as well as
continuing eduzation programs aimed at upgrading already employed technicians.
It would also improve the quality of these programs by strengthening teacher
training programs, curriculum development, examination and student assessment
systems, and modernizing the workshops, laboratories and classrooms of the
Polytechnics. Finally, it would improve the efficiency of the technician
education system by strengthening the All India Council for Technical Education
(AICTE), the four Technical Teacher Training Institutes (TTTIs), the Bureau of
Tec'Lnical Education (BTE) in the Department of Education (DOE), the State Boards
and Directorates of Technical Education, granting academic autonomy to selected



Pn1Iyte(II hi(-, and further strengthening the National Technical Manpower
Ir:ioxmnation System (NTMIS) and the National Board of Accreditation (NBA).
1.04     The proposed project would support the Ten-Year Technician Education
Investment Program in eight States: P.ndhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Himachal
iradesh, Mahiarashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and in the Union Territory
of New Delhi; and would be the second phase of the IDA's commitment to support
tthe m)odernization of the national Polytechnic system as well as the reform of
policies which constrain the system's ability to respond flexibly to the changing
needs of industry and society. It would be identical in content to the first
Techrnician Educatior Project (Ln 3195-IN/Cr 2130-IN) of May 1990 which covered
eight States i.e. Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa,
Rajasthani and Uttar Pr,.desh.  Its special features would be the same as the first
project and include (a) expanding the opportunities for women in modern sector
training and employment; (b) increasing linkages between Polvtechnics and
industry; (c) recognizing that maintenance programs are concomitant with
investments in new equipment and facilities; (d) improving internal revenue
generation in the Polytechnic system; (e) inttoducing flexibility in entrance and
curriculum requirements into the existing rigid three-year diploma programs; and
(g) the systematic training of teachers and introduction of a career development
system. The two Technician Education projects would cover about 61Z of the
Polytechnics in the national system, but almost all of the public sector (AICTE-
approved) Po'ytechnics. The background to the project and related details are
described below.
B. Organization of Technical Education
1.05     Industrial workers in India are developed through public and privately
financed education and training institutions, apprenticeship-type training, and
in-plant training. The publicly financed technical education system operates at
three levels and this is shown in Charts 1 and 2. At the apex of the system, the
five Indian Institutes of Technology tIITs) offer undergraduate and graduate
programs in engineering with a total annual admission of about 1,300 students.
At the next tier, there are 17 Regional Engineering Colleges (RECs) which admit
about 5,500 students each year. These institutions are jointly financed by the
Central Government and the States. There are also 272 State Engineering Colleges
(SECs) with an intake capacity of about 59,400 students. Of these, 97 are
affiliated to local universities and financial assistance is prov_.ded by State
Governme,;ts. There are also 167 private Colleges but about 25? of them receive
assistance from the States and allocate about 802 of their seats to candidates
nominated by the States. Most of these institutions also charge capitation fees
ranging from Rs.50,000 to Rs.l00,000 per year. At the next level, there are 767
Polytechnics which provide three-year diploma courses in civil, mechanical and
electrical engineering. Of these, 367 are government approved and financed with
an intake capacity of about 52,000 students. Another 100 private Polytechnics
receive grants from the States, follow the curricula prescribed by the State
Boards of Technical Education, and have a total annual intake capacity of about
15,000. The remaining 300 are self-run private Polytechnics. Polytechnics in the
eight project Stares and New Delhi showing enrollments (1988/89) are shown in
Annex 1. In the southern States, there are about 300 self-financed Polytechnics
with an estimated intake cf about 48,000. These institutions are not approved by
the Government, and they charge capitation fees which range from Rs. 5,000 to Rs.
40,000 per student. However, the All India Council for Technical Education
(AICTE) has established a number of guidelines as outlined in Annex 2 by which
these private Polytechnics will be able to receive official recognition, Center
and State financial assistance, and become an integral and important part of the



national Polytechnic system. Instructors for the Polytechnics are trained at
four centrally financed Technical Teachers Tra'Liing Institutes (TTTIs).  The
TTTIs also provide assistance to the States in the areas of curriculum.
development and implementation, distance education and the introduction of new
courses and methodologies of training.  Certificate-level craftsman trade courses
are offered to about 325,000 students annually through 1,887 industrial Training
Institutes (ITIs). Only 652 of these institutions are publicly financed and
operated by the Directorate General of Employment and Training (DGET) in the
Ministry of Labor. The other ITIs are private institutions. Lastly, there are
about 1,500 Vocational Schools operated by the Department of Education (DOE),
which offer certificate courses to about 72,000 students each year. A fuller
description of the Technical Education System is outlined in Annex 3.
C.  Management and Administration of Technical Education
1.06     The planning, promotion, and control of technical education rests with
the All Indian Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and the Bureau of
Technical Education (BTE) in the Department of Education (DOE), Ministry of Human
Resources Devalopment (MHRD) at the national level. The system is operated at
the st;-te level by the Directorates and State Boards of Technical Education. The
AICTE is the apex body providing leadership in the planning, promotion and
regulation of technical education in the country. It has four All India Boards
of Technical Studies for: (a) Technician Education; (b) Undergraduate Studies;
(c) Post-Graduate Engineering Studies and Research; and (d) Management Studies.
The Bureau of Technical Education acts as the administrative and governmental arm
of AICTE and its various Boards, while at the same time, has powers relating to
the processing, implementation, monitoring, control and evaluation of programs
and projects in Central institutions, and centrally-sponsored and Plan schemes.
The National Technical Manpower Information System (NTMIS) with the lead center
at the Institut'v of Applied Manpower Research (IAMR) and 21 nodal centers in the
States furnishes relevant manpower information for technical education planning.
In the States, the Directorates and Boards of Technical Education are responsible
for the planniing, management, administration and funding of technical education.
D. Problems and Issues in Technician Education
1.07     Despite the impressive growth and diversification which the technical
education system has undergone in the past few decades, it is still plagued by a
variety of problems which are directly related to and affect its capacity to
respond to the changing needs in the society, the quality of graduates which it
produces, and the efficiency  with which it is operated. Since this project
follows immediately the first Technician Education project of May 1990, the
analysis of the  problems and issues in technician education were discussed in
detail in the Staff Appraisal Report No. 8384-IN ddted April 3, 1990,  These are
outlined in detail in Annex 4, and summarized in the paragraphs below.
Capacity
1.08     As the industrial modernization process increases in momentum in India,
there is a need for two distinct types of technical personnel at the diploma
level: these are the Technician and the Technician-Engineer. At present, the
PolytechnLics are not capable of fully responding to the emerg4ng demand for a
range of diversified and specialized occupations. Another problem is related to
the rigidity of the structure of the courses where students who enter from varied
educational and training levels pursue the same three-year program structure with
no scope for rapid advancement or mid-course changes. A flexible Multi-Point



- 4 -
.i:y and Credit system is in place in  Gujarat and is being gradually introduced
J'ii thile States participating in the First Technician Education Project. While the
( is (oliu11itted to increasing opportunities for women, scheduled castes/tribes,
Wl0 rktial populations, only a small percentage of Polytechnics address the needs
4) These disadvantaged groups through provision for separate residential
m(comodations for women, specialized short courses through Community
Polytechnics and rural outreach projects.
Ku 1 't)
.U9     One of the major reasons for the poor quality of training at the
P(.Jyte(hnics is a teaching force which lacks adequate pedagogical training and
cdu-tlsrial experience. The TTTIs are being upgraded to Regional Resource Centers
tbe first Technician Education Project to enable them to offer courses to
li' lhuge backlog of untrained teachers.  These institutions would provide the
-ar:u services to teachers in the States in this project. There is a 30Z teacher
:acancy rate at the Polytechnics and while many of these posts are filled with
ad hoc appointments, the system's quality is ultimately affected because of
couistant turn over. The quality of the system is also affected by the
obsolescence and inadequacy of equipment and instructional facilities.
Etficiency
j.10     At present, systematic planning and coherent decision making is hampered
by the lack of relevant, meaningful and reliable information about the internal
and external efficiency of the system. There is an oversupply of some engineering
specialties which results in under-or unemployment of graduates while other
emerging disciplines have ample job opportunities. This problem will be partly
addressed by the GOI's strengthening of the National Technical Manpower
Information System (NTMIS), and by establishing Industry-Institute Interaction
programs in the Polytechnic in the first and second project States. With regard
-o internal efficiency, the major problems are the high repetition rates and the
=utdated examination system.
II. GOVERNMENT POLICIES, PLANS AND PROGRAMS IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION
A.   National Policy On Education
, 01     After considerable national consultation and debate, the Government
(-acted the National Policy on Education of 1986 (NPE), which gave a policy
framework to the programs enacted for development under the Seventh Five-Year
Plan. The Five-Year Plan and NPE were clear in recognizing the key issues
affecting the sector and highlighted three priorities among its many goals.
These are: (a) universal primary education; (b) universal literacy for youth and
adults; and (c) the development of specialized manpower for the industrial
sector. Several new programs were launched to meet these objectives, and among
these is "Operation Blackboard," which is designed to provide essential
facilities and learning materials to primary schools.   To meet skilled worker
'leeds, two programs have been launched. The first essentially upgrades
fndustrial Training Institutions (ITIs) and the second calls for the introduction
of a vocational stream at the upper secondary level.
2.02     In teacher education, District Institutes of Education and Training
!DIETs) are to be established with the capability of organizing pre-and in-
service courses for primary school teachers and instructors in non-formal/adult
'ucation programs. Selected secondary teacher training colleges will also be



upgraded and arrangements made to establish better linkages between teacher
education and training institutions and Departments of Education in universities.
At the higher education level, the emphasis is on consolidation, with only
selective expansion in the areas of science and technology.
2.03     In the technical education subsector, a number of new thrusts and
directions are called for. The most important of these are to: (a) increase
facilities for computer education; (b) highlight entrepreneurship as an avenue
for engineering professionals; (c) encourage the participation of users in the
curriculum development process; (d) restructure programs to provide flexibility
by adopting credit-based courses and making provisions for multi-point entry; (e)
expand programs and facilities for women and the handicapped; and (f) undertake
continuing education on a large scale, including distance learning programs of
both the formal and non-formal nature.
2.04     Since the Seventh Five-Year Plan and NPE have been launched, the
Government has initiated and completed a number of actions. First, the
Parliament has enacted legislation to establish the AICTE and has granted it the
necessary statutory powers for the development and regulation of technical
education. It has already started the process for creating a National Board of
Accreditation (NBA), and has formulated the procedures it would adopt to grant
accreditation to technical education institutions after they have been sanctioned
and recognized by the AICTE. The AICTE is also taking the necessary steps for
granting academic autonomy to a selected number of Polytechnics. The National
Technical Manpower Information System (NTMIS) has been established. The Bureau
of Technical Education has already instituted an IIT-REC ne-work scheme for the
development of laboratories as well as faculty eT-hanges. Some interaction
between the IITs and the Confederation of Engineering Industries (CEI) already
exists. The AICTE has made recommendations regarding faculty recruitment
procedures, qualifications for different cadres, pay scales and in-service
training. Finally, a Performance Appraisal System has been developed and is
awaiting AICTE approval.
B. The Eighth Five-Year Plan (1990-94)
2.05     The Eighth Five-Year Plan has not yet been approved by the Government.
All indications are that after the first year of the Plan period (1990-91) the
major thrusts in technical education will continue as under the Seventh Five-Year
Plan, with more emphasis on entrepreneurship, support for technology changes, and
training for job-creation and employment. There is also likely to be more
attention given to finding ways for the system to self-finance and gradually
reduce the burden of operational costs on public finances.
C. The Ten-Year Investment Program (1990-99)
2.06     In early 1988, at the request of the Department of Education (DOE), the
TTTIs developed a Ten-Year Technician Education Investment Program for the 467
Government approved Polytechnics and the TTTIs to cover the Eighth (1990-94) and
Ninth (1995-99) Five-Year Plan periols. The Investment Program broken down by
the various sub-projects and estimated costs by objective is shown in Annex 5.
The total estimated cost of the Investment Program is US$1.86 billion. Each
individual sub-project has been reviewed and approved in principle by the DOE.
However, financing of the program depends on the contributions of individual



States and the level of Central Government funding under the Annual Development
Plans.
D. Financing of Technician Education
2.07     Financing of technical education is shared by both the Center and State
Governments (Annex 3, Paras 8-12). The States are fully responsible for the
public Polytechnics, and also finance privately-managed Government-approved
Polytechn .s at levels varying from 752 to 95% of recurring expenditure. However,
the State Plans themselves are funded 502 by the States and 502 by the Central
Government. All non-plan expenditures are met by the States and Union
Territories.   About 20X of the students who enroll in Polytechnics receive
stipends and fellowships.
2.08     The average annual expenditure by a Polytechnic student on tuition,
boarding, lodging and other training costs is about Rs 300. This represents less
than about 102 of the annual operational cost per student which is about Rs.
4,500. The present fee structure at Polytechnics in project States is shown in
Annex 6. The issue of cost recovery for any level of general pre-employment
education is politically very sensitive in India and as a result the fee
structure at Polytechnics and other post-secondary (pre-service) institutions and
programs has remained intact for more than ten years. Because of this
sensitivity, agitation by students, and a constituency in India which argues that
equity can be maximized through increased access and subsidies to the truly
disadvantaged, attempts at raising tuition fees and reducing subsidies have not
met with much success. However, under the first Technician Project, the
participating States have committed to expanding internal revenue generation
activities, among which changes in the fee structures can be undertaken.
2.09     The Central Government finances technical education under two major
areas: Central Institutions and Central Intervention Schemes. Central assistance
to Polytechnics is provided in two ways. First, funds can be provided for
Approved Schemes related to national policy, such as Modernization/Removal of
Obsolescence from Polytechnics, and second, for new programs and institutions.
The procedures for funding through Central Assistance Schemes involves vetting
and approval by the BTE, the Regional Committee of the AICTE, the TTTI and the
State BTE.
E. External Financing of Education
2.10     Several donors are involved in the education and training sector, but
the scale of their operations is small. UNICEF supports projects in basic
education, while USAID assists project-related training (PRT) in agriculture,
managerial and technical areas of public and private sector management, and
science and technology. The ODA, with the British Council implementing, has a
pilot project of primary education improvement in Andhra Pradesh. The UNDP, with
the ILO as executing agency, has supported vocational training through the
improvement of several ITIs and the introduction of the Advanced Vocational
Training Program. More recently, the ILO has established facilities for
numerically-controlled and computer-controlled (CNC) training at the Advanced
Vocational Training Institutes (ATIs) in Bombay and Kanpur. The Federal Republic
of Germany is supporting a limited number of Polytechnics in Madhya Pradesh while
Italy is supporting a Vocational Training Center in New Delhi. In the early
stages of their development, the ITIs, RECs and TTTIs received assistance from a



-7 -
number of bilateral sources and the UNDP. The ODA and the Netherlands have
assisted the TTTIs. Canada is also providing assistance to the TTTI located in
Madras and to a number of colleges in Tamil Nadu. The International Development
Research Center (IDRC) is undertaking a long-term study of the relationship
between vocational/technical education and employment concentrating on ITIs; the
utility of technical training received by women, and preparing guidelines for
improving existing programs at ITIs. In the early 1970s, the UNDP funded the
Curriculum Development in Technician Education project. Under this project about
301.5 staff-months of fellowship training, 201 staff-months of technical
assistance and US$2.1 million worth of equipment was provided to the TTTIs to
establish a National Testing Service and to undertake technician education
research.
F. IDA Role and Sector Lending Strategy
2.11     Previous Experience: IDA has supported three projects in the sector.
The first was a Credit of US$12.0 million which was approved in 1973 to assist
agricultural education and research at Assam Agricultural University, Rajendra
Agricultural University in Bihar, and the Institute of Agricultural Research in
New Delhi. The project was closed in 1982 and a Project Performance Audit Report
(PPAR)(No. 5668 of May 23, 1985) issued, which noted that most of the objectives
of the project had been achieved. The project suffered delays in implementation
because of civil unrest in Assam, which meant that Bank staff could not visit the
State for three or more years, and the fact that IDA's experience in university
development projects was limited at the time this project was approved.
Typically, this would have been a two-phased operation with emphasis given to
detailed campus planning, academic/program development and staff training in a
first operation. A second operation would have concentrated on construction and
operation. The second project with IDA and Bank financing of US$280.0 miilion
(US$250.0 million, IDA; US$30.0 million, Bank) was approved by the Board in May
1989. It is a Vocational Training project and concentrates on the expansion and
qualitative improvement of pre- and in-service training of skilled/semi-skilled
workers at Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs). Project implementation has
been satisfactory to date. The third project with IDA and Bank financing of
US$260.0 million (US$235.0 million, IDA; US$25.0 million Bank) was approved by
the Board in May 1990. It is the first Technician Education Project and covers
about 230 Polytechnics. The main objectives of the project are capacity expansion
and quality and efficiency improvements. Although these latter two projects have
only recently started, substantial progress in establishing management and
implementation systems, procurement of equipment, development of new courses and
civil construction are already evident. The IDA and the Bank have also supported
training components as well as free-standing training projects in other sectors
such as Forestry, Irrigation/Water Management, the Cement and Electronics
Industries and Agricultural Extension.
2.12     Rationale for IDA Involvement:  Because of inefficiencies, technological
weaknesses, inappropriate pricing policies, and inadequate standards of quality
and reliability in the industrial sector, IDA endorses a lending program which
concentrates on the industrial sector as the key input to a broader strategy
aimed at supporting economy-wide improvements in the efficiency of domestic
resource mobilization, allocation and use. IDA also believes that investments in
the social sectors including education and training, health, population,
nutrition, water and sanitation can directly support industrial development
through improved productivity of workers. In addition to alleviating the more



degrading aspects of poverty, investments in education and training, including
retraining, can provide a means of increasing skills which would be required for
the introduction of more technology, and the more skill-intensive elements in
industry and agriculture.
2.13     GOI's Ten-Year Technician Education Investment Program will lead to
adjustments in technician education policies, bring about institutional changes,
and introduce new technologies in training and industry. IDA assistance would
therefore continue to support policy reform, institutional development and
technology dissemination.  IDA's involvement with the technician education sub-
sector also provides an avenue to pursue the dialogue on industrial training on a
broader scale and compliments the Vocational Training and first Technician
Education Projects.  The skilled workers who are trained in the ITIs and who
ultimately find employment in the industrial and modern sectors, will work
closely with the technicians who are trained in the Polytechnics.  Finally, IDA
involvement in technician education would provide a forum for a discussion not
only of skills development generally, but also the need for the system to improve
its revenue generation and the role the private sector can play in organizing in-
plant training and the other non-formal ways of training which can be directed to
women, the rural and informal sectors. The proposed project takes into account
the lessons learned from the first educat4on project since special attention has
been given to the detailed physical and academic planning for new Polytechnics.
It also builds on the early experiences of implementation of the Vocational
Training and first Technician Education project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Goals and Objectives
3.01     Goals.  The goals of the proposed project are to support the National
Policy on Education (NPE) (Paras. 2.01 - 2.04). More specifically, the proposed
project is the second phase of IDA's commitment to support the national
Polytechnic system. It follows the first Technician Education project and
supports the Ten-Year Technician Education Investment Program which is
formulated in the context of the NPE.
3.02     Objectives.  In order to achieve the above goals, the proposed project
would have three objectives. These are to: (a) expand the capacity of selected
Polytechnics; (b) improve the quality of Polytechnic pLograms; and (c) increase
the efficiency of the management and operation of the Polytechnic system at the
Center and in the States.
3.03     The capacity expansion objective would be achieved by: (a) introducing
programs in new and emerging technologies at existing Polytechnics; (b)
developing a limited number of new Polytechnics; (c) establishing programs of
Contir.uing Education; and (d) expanding programs aimed at Women and the Rural and
Informal Sectors.
3.04     The quality improvement objective would be achieved by: (a) strength-
ening teacher education and training programs at State-level Staff Development
Centers; (b) establishing curriculum development and research programs;
(c) modernizing laboratories and workshops and replacing obsolescent equipment at
the Polytechnics; (d) instituting maintenance programs and improving internal
revenue generation; and (e) initiating faculty development programs for
Polytechnic teachers.



3.05             The efficiency improvement obLective would be achieved by:
(a) strengthening the administration and management of the State Directorates
and Boards of Technical Education; (b) granting autonomy to a selected number
of Polytechnics; and (c) establishing Industry-Institute interaction programs
at Polytechnics.
Table 3.1 Objectives, Investments and Desired Outcomes
OE JACT IVE'i                                         zINVESTMNTS                                           DES 1RED OUTCOMES
CAPACITY EXPANSION through
o Introducing Programs in Noe                          Curriculum development. equipping                       Training about 21,460 Polytechnic
Technologies                                        workehops and training new and existi;n                 graduates in nee technology areas.
teachers to develop and introduce 89 nv.
Technology Diploss and post diplos  courses
o OneloVinp He. Coeducational                          Construction, furnishing, equipping and                Creation of an additional 3,465 plIces.
Polytecnnics                                        staffing of 9 Ne. Polytechnice.
DOeveloping Continuing Education                      Establishing through peovieion of civil                Training about 24,520 students through
Prograss                                            works equipment,  books and materials,                  thwse programs over the project period.
40 Continuing Education Departments and
Centers.
o Expanding the Cosmunity Polytechnic                  Construction, furnishing, equipping and                Training about 12,520 students in non-
System                                              staffing 54 existi        ongPlytechnics so that        formel skills programs appropriate for
they mould have the capacity to function               the informal and rural sectors
as Community Polytechnics.
o Expending Training Opportunities for                 Construction, furnishing, equipping and                Creation of an additional 4,640 places
Women                                               staffing 9 New Residential Polytechnice                 annually for mosey  in Polytechnice.
for women as sell as special Wines at 6
Co-educationel Polytechnis. Also,
establishment of apecial Cells in e*ch
Polytchnic to ensure employment of female
gradjuates.
QiUALITY IMPROVEPE%T through:
Improving and Expending Teacher                       Construction, furnishing, equipping end                Developing a system of continuous on-
Training                                            staffing  52 Steff Development Cells/ Center.    the-job and in-service trainig for
in States/Polytechnicm.                                Polytechnic Teachers.  Training about
2,100 t*achers ovor the project period.
o Improving the Curriculum Dovelopm*nt                Construction, furnishing,  equipping and                Oeveloping a system for the continou,
Procms*                                              staffing of 15 Curriculum Devalopeent                  ur  ading and renewal of all curriculum.
Centers in State Boards of Education.
o Modernization of Equipment and                      Construction,  furnishing and equipping                 Facilities mnd staff to offer training of
Facilities                                          about 600 morkshops, laborator,es, computer             relevance to sodarn-secto- industry.
centers mnd Learning Resources Calls/Centers
at *bout 230 olytechnics.
o Developing Maintenance Capacity                      Construction, furnishing and equipping                 Creotion of a syatee for the mystematic
208 Maintenance Cells at State and                     maintenance of facilities and equipment
Polytechnic levls,                                     at the Polytechnics
E0FICIES Y IMPROVEMNWT through
o Strengthening Manegesent and                         Appointment and training of about 300                  State Directorates and Boards sith
Administeation                                      additional staff and training at the Stats              capacity to Mnage effect-vly a lmrge
Directorates and Boards of Technical                   snd diversified Polytechnic system.
Education.
o Expanding Autonomy                                   Providing support to about 26 Polytechnics              Increamed diversity  in Polytechnic
to achians academic end financial autonosy.            Systt.em nd flexibility of institutions,
to respond to d...nds from industry.
Construction of facilities and equipment for
conducting examination
o Forg;ng Strongor Linkages w;th                       Furniture,  equipment.  staff and training             A larger nunber of students and faculty
Industry                                            for the *stabliskment of about 240                      would hays  ndustrlal xperience.
Industry-Inotitute Cells at State and                  Industry mould be sore intimately  linked
Polytechnic  levels                                    to the curriculum development and training
processe. Students would bs more
acceptable to industry as employees.
indumtry



- 10 -
B. Scope
3.06     Eight States: Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Him.achal Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal and thE Union Territory of New
Delhi have been selected to participate in the proposed project. They were
chosen on the basis of a number of criteria developed by GOI and agreed by IDA.
These criteria are outlined in Annex 7. Basic information on the Polytechnic
System in these States and Delhi is shown in Annex 1. The project has been
designed with flexibility to facilitate implementation and the inclusion of
additional activities and Union Territories agreed to under the Ten-Year
Technician Education Investment Program (Para. 2.06) as and when the availability
of local resources and implementation warrant. The detailed appraised project
components by State are shown in tabular form in Annex 8.
C. Capacity Expansion (Proposed Outlay US$157.02 million) 1/
3.07     In response to the problems generated by rigidity of course/program
structure and conventional programs (Annex 4 Paras 2 and 3) a variety of
activities would be undertaken including: (a) expanding the offerings of new
Diploma courses in emerging and specialized areas as well as Advanced (Post-
Diploma) Technician courses at existing Polytechnics; (b) establishing new
Polytechnics, (c) expanding Continuing Education; and (d) expanding Women's
Technician Education opportunities and training for the Rural and Informal
sectors.
3.08     Programs in New Technologies.  About 90 new technology Diploma and Post
Diploma courses would be introduced in about 240 of the existing Polytechnics. A
list of the specific new programs and courses to be offered is summarized in
Annex 9.  The intake for each program would be about 30 students and would cater
to the needs of industry. Draft course outlines for each new technology program,
including how environmental awareness and conservation would be specifically
addressed and made part cf these courses are under development as part of the
first Technician Education project. At the end of the project, a total of about
21,460 technicians will have graduated in emerging/specialized technologies and
in other diversified areas both at the diploma and advanced technician levels.
Because the costs of introducing new programs into existing Polytechnics would be
substantial, and because the internal revenue generation of the Polytechnics are
minimal, during negotiations, the States and Delhi provided assurances that by
December 31, 1991, they shall review the current practices and levels of internal
revenue generation for their respective Polytechnics and develop plans to
increase internal revenue generation through various ways and means.
3.09     New Coeducational Polytechnics.  Over the project period, all formerly
male Polytechnics would be gradually made coeducational Polytechnics. Of the 240
Polytechnics to be assisted, only 9 new Coeducational Polytechnics would be
developed. The remainder would receive assistance to modernize their equipment
and facilities (para 3.18). The new Polytechnics would offer programs which
would lead to Advanced Vocational Certificatps, Vocational Diplomas, Diplomas and
Advanced Technician Diplomas/Technician Degrees. Wherever feasible, programs
1/ This and other references to proposed outlays are base cost estimates.



- 11 -
would le offered on a sandwich-type I/ mode and the Multi-Point Entry and
Credit system instituted. A list of the proposed new Polytechnics to be
established as well as those to be strengthened by the States and Delhi, is
outlined in Annex 10. The States 2/ have identified and acquired the sites for
the iocation of the new Polytecthnics and developed preliminary designs and cost
estimates on thie basib of planned academic programs and schedules of
accommodation. During negotiations, the GoI provided an assurance that it shall
withhold and cause the proiect States and Delhi to withhold the establishment of
any new publicly funded Polytechnic in the project States and Delhi without the
prior approval of the AICTE. A list of the Polytechnics introducing the Multi-
Point Entry and Credit System which would be a central feature of the New
Polytechnics is shown in Annex 11. During negotiations, the States and Delhi
provided assurances that they shall introduce in a phased manner, the Multi-Point
Entry and Credit System in selected disciplines and Polytechnics.
3.10     Programs in Continuing Education.  Recognizing that the technical
education system must be flexible enough to be responsive to the needs of the
large stock of technicians who require updating and new skills, the project calls
for the expansion of continuing education activities at the diploma level. About
40 Continuing Education Centers and Departments would be established in the
respective State Boards of Technical Education and in selected Polytechnics. The
Centers would assist the Departments in developing programs required by industry
and the formulation of course content for the conduct of these programs. The
TTTIs would assist the States in establishing the Continuing Education Centers
and Departments. A list of the Polytechnics by State and the number of
Continuing Education programs by State is shown in Annex 12. During
negotiations, the States and Delhi provided assurances that they shall cause
their respective Polytechnics to charge fees to recover the full costs of
continuing education programs being administered by them for public and private
sector industry.
3.11     Community Polytechnics.  In order to spread the impact of the technician
education system which presently caters mainly to the needs of the organized
sector, the Government in 1978 arranged for certain Polytechnics to prepare
training programs aimed at stimulating the awareness of science and technology at
the village level. Today, about 129 "Community Polytechnics" provide rural
development training programs. Under the project, about 54 Polytechnics would be
expanded to become Community Polytechnics. Community Development Cells will be
developed at each Polytechnic. Village Extension Centers would also be
established to offer assistance in appropriate technology, rural production in
self-generating enterprises and the carrying out of needs surveys to facilitate
employment and the start-up of new businesses. Resources would be also provided
to construct and equip Village Production Centers to provide technical assistance
and staff to carry out studies and surveys, and to give general support such as
seed-money to stimulate the initiation of new rural production. The new
Community Polytechnics by State are shown in Annex 13.
1/ Combination of institutional and on-the-job training.
2/ All references to "the States" mean the eight project States and the
Union Territory of Delhi.



- 12 -
3.12     Programs for Women.  Training at the technician level in Women's
Polytechnics or in Wings attached to coeducational Polytechnics is already
established in several States. However, overall only a small number of women,
about 14Z of enrollment, now participate in technician education, largely because
of an absence of residential accommodation, and their reluctance to enroll in
coeducational institutions. The National Policy on Education of 1986 recommended
that a larger proportion of technical education and training be given to women at
all levels and that the focus should be on modern technologies for industrial
emDloyment.
3.13     The project will support an expansion of technician training
opportunities for women. Nine (9) new Women's Polytechnics with residAntial
accommodation will be provided, and Wings for women would be added to 6 existing
Coeducational Polytechnics. Each new Women's Polytechnic would offer three to
six diploma courses of 2-3 years duration. In addition, short courses will be
provided as a part of continuing education for women technicians. Most States
presently offer incentives for this training by providing tuition without fees,
free transportation and accommodation. Also, State Governments offer assistance
to place graduates in industry and are creating a placement mechanism for this
purpose. The project will therefore support on-going and expanded scholarship
programs for female students in each State. A list of the new and existing
Women's Polytechnics to be established and supported in the project States is
shown in Annex 14. In addition, hostels and other facilities for women would be
provided in all existing Coeducational Polytechnics in order to expand training
places for women in technician education. The States have already identified and
acquired the sites for Polytechnics to be constructed in the first year of the
project, prepared preliminary designs, undertaken site surveys and prepared cost
estimates for the new Women's Polytechnics. During negotiations, the States and
Delhi provided assurances that they shall develop and expand diploma programs fur
women and in conjunction therewith, make concurrent efforts including the
establishment of a Special Cell in each Women's Polytechnic, to identify and
obtain suitable employment opportunities for women.
3.14     Student and Faculty Housing.  Any program of capacity expansion &aso
increases the need for additional student hostels and faculty and staff housing.
At the Polytechnics, hostel places would be constructed for about 4,625 boys and
for about 7,000 girls, and houses for about 1,026 teachers and 814 support staff.
The States have provided preliminary designs, site surveys and cost estimates for
the construction of the facilities to be constructed during the 1991-1992 period.
Annex 15 shows the summary of the proposed civil works program by year.
3.15     In summary, the activities which will be supported under the project
will increase the oresent total annual enrollment capacity of the technician
education system in the project States by about 30,430 in 1998 from a present
total enrollment of about 93,475 (Annex 16). Of the additional places created,
about 21,460 or 701 would in the new and emerging technology areas, 8,970 or
about 302 would be dedicated to women technicians and would represent a 5OX
increase in female participation in technician education from the present 142.
Only 152 would be in the conventional areas of civil, mechanical and electrical
engineering. The project would support capacity expansion by financing civil
works, furniture, equipment, vehicles, foreign and local experts and fellowships,
and the salaries of incremental staff and incremental supplies on a declining
scale.



- 13 -
D. Quality Improvement (Proposed Outlays US$138.15 million)
3.16     Teacher Training.  In addition to the strengthening of TTTIs which is
supported under the first Technician Education project, teacher training would
also be undertaken by each of the participating States. To expand their current
efforts at staff training and career development, each State would establish
Staff Development Centers in the State Boards of Technical Education and Staff
Development Cells in selected Polytechnics. Overall, 10 Centers and 41 Cells
would be established. These Staff Development Centers/Cells would have the
capacity to identify the learning needs, and to design tailor-made programs of
pre-service, in-service and on-the-job training in collaboration with the TTTIs,
for individual teachers. This individualized attention would be a part of the
career development structure to be established in each State to recruit, tra
and retain in service, competent teachers and administrators for the technic
education system. About 200 technical teachers will be trained abroad to
increase their competence in planning, organizing and managing these new
technology programs. Another 600 teachers will be trained in Indian industries
in new areas, making instructional processes more relevant and increasing
industry-institution interaction. Finally, about another 1,200 technical
teachers will be trained at the TTTIs or their Extension Centers in the States,
in the areas of curriculum development, education technology, instructional
resources and content updating as it relates to these new technologies. The
number of additional teachers to be appointed and trained by State is shown in
Annex 17. Each State has prepared a draft comprehensive staff development and
teacher training plan. They have also started the process of filling all
sanctioned but vacant teacher posts. During negotiations, the States and Delhi
provided assurances that they shall (a) provide additional staff to their
Polytechnics in accordance with an agreed Schedule of Deployment of Key
Additional Staff (Annex 18); and (b) institute by January 31, 1992, a Faculty
Development System for technical teachers in accordance with a plan satisfactory
to the Association (Annex 19). In addition, the States and Delhi provided
assurances that they shall prepare and furnish to the Association by December 31
of each year, draft annual plans for the next fiscal year for the training of
teachers, including local and foreign fellowships.
3.17     Curriculum Development.  To meet the needs of curriculum reform, each of
the eight States and New Delhi would establish a Curriculum Development Center.
The CDCs will have as their major objectives to: (a) undertake surveys/studies to
identify education and training needs of technicians; (b) design and develop
needs-based curricula in cooperation with the TTTIs; (c) develop standards/
guidelines for States to implement the curriculum; (d) facilitate the
introduction of flexible course structures by bringing about appropriate
curriculum changes; (e) periodically review and update curricula for diploma
programs; (f) collaborate with national, regional, state institutions/agencies
having similar objectives; (g) liaise with industry for practical input to
curriculum 1. 'opment; and (h) monitor progress of implementation of curricula
in technician inqtitutions and advise corrective actions where required. Special
focus and emphasis would be given to generating awareness of environmental
concerns in different technical curricula and specifically for industrial
technology, developing curricula regarding more efficient industrial processes
which generate less poii ition as well as technologies which treat pollutants.
The BTE has already developed guidelines and issued them to the States on either
how to incorporate environmental concerns into existing curr;cula and/or how to
prepare new curricula cn the environment. During negotiat; s, the States and



- 14 -
Delhi provided assurances that they shall prepare and furnish to the Association
by December 31 of each year, a draft annual plan for the next fiscal year for the
introduction of new tpchnician programs in their respective Polytechnics.
3.18     Equipment and FaCility Improvement Programs.  In order to undertake the
new programs as well as improve the quality of the conventional courses being
offered, the laboratories and workshops in the Polytechnics would have to be re-
equipped. Under this component, new equipment would be provided, obsolete
equipment replaced and/or modernized, and new facilities either constructed or
existing structures remodelled to house new laboratories, workshops and Learning
Resource Cells. Introduction of computers for instructional and managerial
functions will be another dimension of modernization. About 23C Polytechnics
would be modernized. As a result, about 800 workshops and laboratories would be
updated and reequipped, 188 Computer Centers established and 200 Learning
Resource Development Centers and Utilization Cells developed in the project
States. Preliminary equipment lists for new and existing courses have been
developed under the first Technician Education project. The States have each
already developed more detailed equipment and furniture lists including
specifications and a procurement plan for the first two project years.
3.19     Maintenance Cells.  Both preventive and repair maintenance capabilities
of buildings and equipment would be developed for each State's Polytechnic
system. The States would establish Maintenance Cells in each Polytechnic and at
the State Headquarters. The Maintenance Cells will either carry out maintenance
and repair themselves, have it undertaken locally, or enter into service
contracts with service organizations. During negotiations, the States and Delhi
provided assurances that they shall (a) provide adequate resources for their
respective Polytechnics for the maintenance of buildings and equipment; and (b)
delegate appropriate financial powers to Polytechnic Principals to enable them to
undertake axLnual maintenance programs at their respective Polytechnics.
3.20     The training and upgrading of teaching staff, modernization of
curriculum, equipment and facilities is expected to improve the quality of
trainees graduating from the Polytechnics. It is projected that by the end of
the project, about 2,000 new and about 18,000 existing untrained teachers would
be trained, the curriculum for the majority of exirting and new courses would be
either reviewed, revised and/or developed, and about 600 outdated work-
shops/laboratories would be modernized. In addition, 52 Staff Development
Centers/Cells will be developed in the project States. The project would support
quality improvement by financing civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles,
books, learning materials, local and foreign fellowships and experts, and the
salaries of incremental staff and consumable materials on a declining scale.
E. Efficiency Improvement (Proposed Outlays US$29.60 million)
3.21     The project will support a number of activities which are designed to
increase the internal and external efficiency of the system. The State
Directorates and Boards of Technical Education would be strengthened, academic
autonomy would be granted to selected Polytechnics, and Industry-Institute
Interaction programs undertaken.
3.22     Strengthening State Directorates and Boards of Technical Education.
Under this subcomponent, provision would be made to train officers in modern
education managemer through local and external fellowships as well as



15 ^
interaction with local and foreign consultants. The State Directorates and
Boards ot Technical Education would be strengthened to include computerized
management information centers as well as specific other professional
departments. Each of the States have prepared an organizational chart of the
existing set-up and developed a plan for the proposed strengthened DTE and
Boards, including job) descriptions of key personnel. During negotiations, the
States and Delhi provided assurances that they shall mainta:n and provide
additional staff to their respective Directorates and Boards of Technical
Education in accordance with an 3greed Schedule of Deplovment of Key Additional
Staff.
3.23     Granting Autonomy.  Autonomy is envisaged for the Polytechnics, but the
process of achieving it would be phased. During the project period only 26 or
about lIZ of the 240 Polytechnics in the proiect States would receive academic as
well as some degree of financial autonomy. The main purposes of restructuring
the internal management of the Polytechnics are to: (a) secure the academic
autonomy envisioned under the National Policy on Education of 1986 (NPE); (b)
introduce adequate flexibility into the academic program by organizing credit-
based courses and multi-point entry; and (c) clearly identify decision-making
authority. One specific outcome of academic autonomy is that each of the
autonomous Polytechnics would have to organize a confidential examination, and
for this purpose, Centers would be established at each institution to revise
current examination practices and develop more rational student assessment
systems. These examination centers wouli be supported under the project.
3.24     Promoting Industry-Institute Interaction.  The extent of interaction
between industry and Polytechnics which exists today is insignificant and the
States will develop mechanisms and procedures to promote this activity under the
project. The major objectives would be to: (a) organize systematic industrial
training for students and teachers of Polytechnics; (b) involve industry in the
areas of curriculum development, instructional material development, training of
students and teachers; (c) undertake consultancy/assist industries in solving
problems relating to shop floor production and field work; (d) help industries in
the in-service training of working technicians; and (e) carry out research
studies for gathering data useful for technician education planning and
curriculum planning. A list of the Polytechnics which will introduce Industry-
Institute Interaction Programs by State is shown in Annex 20.
3.25     At each Polytechnic, an Advisory Committee will be established to
discuss problems relating to practical training of staff and students, suggest
solutions, ensure participation of professionals from Industry in the training of
students, and to identify problems of industry which can be handled by the
Polytechnic. In addition, an Industry-Institute Interaction Cell will be
established at each Polytechnic and be headed by the training-cum-placement
officer. The Cell would liaise with Industry for the practical training of
students. It would also prepare profiles of different types of technicians
working in industry, identify the shortcomings perceived by the industry in
regard to the curricula and formulate schemes under which students will be given
project work and Polytechnics consultancies. The Cell will also arrange for the
training of teachers in industry.
3.26     At the Directorate level, an Industry - Institute Interaction Cell would
be established to gather and collate the information received from the
Polytechnic Cells, analyze such information and formulate specific suggestions on



b 6 -
tlOe prot)lems encountered in achieving thie goals of Industry - Institute
lIt tract iott.  Durinig negotiations, the States and Delhi provided assurances that
tl hey shall promote close interaction of Polytechnics with industry by (a)
deveol ping and implemelnt itg Industry ISstitLute Interaction programs eatisfactory
to th;' Association; (b) constituting atn Industry-Institute Cell at each of their
ri'e;poct ive Polytechnics; ald Directorates of Technical Education; and (c)
appol,itiring Advisory Committees and Ido, rial Liaison and Placement Officers to
,d t h  said Indust cy-Institute Ilntfei  t ion Cells.
3.21     In summary, the internal arid extetnal efficiency of the technician
education system would he improved considerably by the proposed investments.  It
i!; expected that repeaters would diminishi, decision-making in the Directorates
would be undertaken on a more scientific and technical basis, more flexibility
would be introduced into the system, industry-institution linkages improved, and
the Polytechniics would function more efficiently. The project would support
efticien(y improvements by financinig civil works, equipment, vehicles, furniture,
loc,il and foreign training and consultants, and the salaries of incremental staff
aLnd consumable materials on a declininig scale.  The technical assistance
requirements of foreign and local consultants and fellowship training, for all
project components are shown in Annex 21. During negotiations, the GOI provided
an assurance that by December 1, 1991, jointly with the States and Delhi, it
shall develop, institute and thereafter maintain fellowship training programs,
including study tours, 4s agreed to by the GOI and the Association.
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Costs
4.01     Summaries of Costs.  The total cost of the project, including duties and
taxes, is estimated at about Rs.8,252.21 millior. or US$362.1 million equivalent.
The breakdown of costs of the proposed project by component, categories of
expenditure and sub-component for the eight States and New Delhi is summarized in
Tables 4.1 and 4.2. Detailed costs of the project by component, categories of
expenditure, and time are given in Annex 22.
4.02     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated costs for civil works are based on
current unit costs for construction which vary from US$15 to US$20 per sq. ft. of
gross floor area of construction. These costs are reasonable for comparable Bank
Group-assisted construction in India. Costs of professional services for design
and top supervision of construction reflect the scale of fees established for
similar services provided by local architectural consulting firms. Costs for the
preparation of tender documents and for on-site supervision reflect the standard
establishment chaiges of the PWD in the States of 152.  Estimated equipment and
vehicle costs are products of lists developed by GOI and the States, and include
import duties and taxes. Furniture and consumable material costs are based on
GOI and State estimates and reflect current prices. Estimated costs for the
salaries of additional staff are based on basic pay scales including standard
allowances for social and other benefits applicable in the project States.



- 17 -
"able 4.1:  Cs'S by Comorent/Sub Coqi2onert
R;ee_eMi..on)               USS (M11lion)        X of Base
C___                   LJva    F.T         ta       Local  Foreijn  Tota.   COSts
New  .e'S. PcigraM.       58 .23   174.00   753.23   32.45    v.67   42.12    13
New Po1yte8.-.izs         3.5.69   108.59   45..24   19.21    6.03   25.24          8
Ci:  -._ ;-.g Edi_s.       150.12    17.39   167.51    8.34    0.97    9.31         3
Cc=z_ni:y PoLyte:hn:-:s  1 19.09    30.59   149.63    6.62    1.70    8.32          3
W=en s Ps_yte-8h.i:^s    465.89   139.53   605.42   25.88    7.75   33.63    10
HKstels & Residen.c.es    524.15   167.12  669.27   29.12    9.28   38.40    12
Su bto :al            2 :8289.17   637.22  2826.39   121.62   35.40  157.02    49
u a1I i   1rc Iove'.en.t
Tea-her Training          242.08    65 .6    307 .2    4 13.45    3.62   17.07      5
Curriculum Devebopmt.       39.29      7.6:    46.90    2.18    0.42    2.60        1
Modern`zation            1393.70   604.89  1983.59    77.43   33.61  111.04    J4
Maintenance Cells          112.95    21.021   133.96    6.27    1.17    7.44        2
Subtotal              1788.02   693.67  2486.69   99.33   38.82  138.15    42
Efficiency Imnrovement
Strengthening State
Directorate & Boards   272.44    47.99   320.43   15.13    2.67   17.80            5
Autonom.ous Polytechnics  23.44       3.87    27.31    1.30    0.22    1.52         1
Industry-Institute
Interaction              159.60    25.49   185.09        8.87   1.41   10.28       3
Subtotal               455.48    77.35   532.83    25.30   4.30   29.60          9
Total Bas  Costs        4432.67  1413.24  5845.91  246.25   78.52  324.77   100
Contingencies           1625.08   781.22  2406.30   19.14   18.19   37.33    11
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    6057.75  2194.46  8252.21  265.39   96.71  362.10   111
Table 4.2:  Costs by Categories of Expenditure
Category                      Rupee (Million)              US$ (Million) *       of Base
of Expenditure            Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Costs
Investment Costs
Civil Works              1613.83   561.08  2174.91   89.66   31.17  120.83    37
Furniture                 177.16    32.62   209.78    9.84    1.81   11.65          4
Equipment                 938.96   652.19  1591.1.   52.16   36.23   88.39    28
Vehicles                   39.87    41.52    81.39    2.22    2.31    4.53          1
Books                      68.00    17.73    85.73    3.78    0.98    4.76          1
Foreign Fellowships         4.96    46.53    51.49    0.27    2.59    2.86          1
Local Fellowships (incl.
Scholarship for Girls) 111.92         -      111.92    6.22       -      6 Z2      2
Local Consultants          27.34       -       27.34    1.52       -      1.52      -
Foreign Consultants         0.63      1.54      2.17    0.03    0.09    0.12        -
Subtotal             2982.67  1353.21  4335.88  165.70   75.18  240.88    74
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of incre-
mental Staff            1096.55       -    1096.55   60.92        -     60.92    19
Consumable Materials    197.41    51.46   248.87   10.96    2.86   13.82            4
Operation and
Maintenance              156.04      8.57   164.61    8.67    0.48    9.15         3
Subtotal             1450.00    60.04  1510.04   80.55    3.34   83.89    26
Total Base Costs        4432.67  1413.25  5845.92  246.25   78.52  324.77   100
Contingencies           1625.08   781.22  2406.30   19.14   18.19   37.33    11
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    6057.75  21 94.46  8252.21  265.39   96.71  362.10   1111
.- t .. .    -...r  ----_ =  ... , W..n ....., - --       =,
NOTES:  Su.btctals may not add to totals due to rounding.
Costs i-.clude taxes and d.ties.



- 18 -
4. 03    ;Customn LDuties arid Taxes.  All imported goods are subject to customs
dut ;f-, w:i, taxes.  The estimated cost of the project includes import duties
and tax,, t-t, i:iated at about US$10.7 million.
4.04     ContinZen1y Allowances.  Estimated project costs include physical
contingen:ies (US$28.9 million) estimated at 10% of all physical components
and at Z for technical assistance, consumable materials and operation and
maintenan(e costs.  The est...ated costs of the project also include price
contingencies (US$8.5 million) to cover expected price escalation at the
fol]owir:g rates. For civil works, goods, salaries and technical assistance-
foreign costs 3.6Z in FY91 through FY99; local costs: 72 in FY91 and FY92,
6.62 in FY93; 6.52 in FY94 and FY95; 6.22 in FY96 and 6% in FYs.. and FY98.
4.05     Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
of US$96.7 million is calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange
proportions as follows: (a) civil works 25Z; (b) furniture 15Z; (c) locally
produced equipmert 35Z; (d) locally produced vehicles 50Z; (e) international
fellowships 90Z; (f) locally produced consumable material 20Z; (g) operation
and maintenance costs at 5Z.
B. Financing Plan
4.06     The estimated total project cost of US$362.1 million would be
financed by an IDA credit of US$307.1 million equivalent, which would cover
about 87Z of costs net of taxes. The States would finance the net costs of
US$29.8 million and GOI would finance the remaining US$25.2 million including
all taxes estimated at US$10.7 million. The financing plan by project
component and by categories of expenditure is outlined in Annex 23.
C. Recurrent Cost Implications
4.07     When the project becomes fully operational in FY 1998, it would
require Rs.440.0 million (US$17.1 million) annually in recurrent expenditures.
The impact of the recurrent cost of the project on projected recurrent
technical education budgets of each State is shown in Annex 24. These levels
represent a significant increase in recurrent budget outlays for technician
education over the previous years cf the Sixth and Seventh Five-Year Plans.
The new levels of recurrent expenditure will be sustainable in the future
because, (a) the States have been made aware very early in the project
development process that an increased commitment would be required, and they
have demonstrated their willingness to sustain this level of activity by
budgeting their own resources (as opposed to DOE) during the investment phase
of the project; (b) there has been an overt recognition that the low-level of
recurrent expenditure in the past has led to qualitative degradation of the
system; and (c) the internal revenue generation and other efficiency measures
to be instituted would inevitably reduce some of the financial burden on the
States.
D. Status of Preparation
4.08     Designs and Drawings for New Polytechnics and Workshops.  Standard
designs for the construction of Polytechnics already exist in each State.
These are consistent with approved government standards. Preliminary designs
and/or sketch plans for the civil, mechanical, electrical, electronic and
computer engineering laboratories/workshops, and the additions to existing
institutions have been prepared for the first two years of construction. A
civil works General Implementation Schedule as well as a Furniture and



- 19 -
Equipment General Procurement Plan have been prepared and are shown
in Annex 25.
4.09     Sites.  Sites for the new Polytechnics both coeducational and female,
and for hostels and faculty housing have been identified. New workshops would
for the most part, be constructed as expansions to existing institutions and
therefore little additional land would bt required. The annual construction
programs which are to be developed by the States will give priority to those
institutions where the land is already available. During negotiations, the
States and Delhi provided assurances that they shall prepare and furnish to
the Association by December 31 of each year, draft annual plans for the next
fiscal year for the construction of new and rehabilitation of existing
facilities.
4.10     Furniture, Equipment, Books, Vehicle and Consumable Training Material
lists have been prepared by the States and reviewed during appraisal.
4.11     Technical Assistance (Local and Foreign Consultants, Studies,
Training Plans, including Fellowship, Training and Organizational
Development). Each State and Delhi has completed detailed staffing plans for
new and existing institutions, developed draft teacher training schedules,
draft terms of reference for local and foreign consultants, started the
detailed work of preparing curricula and course outlines for the various types
of training and developed draft maintenance plans. Each of the project
Polytechnics has also developed or are in the process of developing a Detailed
Project Report (DPR) indicating how it would implement each of the proposed
project components/sub-components.
E. Project Management/Implementation
4.12     The executing agency for the Project will be the Bureau of Technical
Education (BTE) in which a National Project Directorate (NPD) has already been
established under the first Technician Education Project. A National Project
Implementation Unit (NPIU) has also been established in the Educational
Consultants India Ltd (EDCIL) as a part of that project. All staff have been
appointed to make it fully operational. The NPD and NPIU are presently
assisted by Steering and Advisory Committees, but the Steering Committee has
been upgraded to an Empowered Committee. The currently functioning NPIU would
work closely with State Project Implementation Units (SPIUs) which would be
established in each of the State Directorates. Each Polytechnic in which
project components are to be implemented will aiso have a Project
Implementation Cell (PIC). The main functions which the NPIU is now
performing for the first Technician Education Project would be expanded for
this project and include (a) liaising with the Association, the Department of
Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Human Resource Development, the Directorate
General of Supplies and Disposal (DGS&D), the All India Boards of Technician
Education and Continuing Education, the three professional divisions of the
AICTE, the TTTIs, State Governments, Directorates of Technical Education and
the concerned Polytechnics; (b) providing direction and guidelines to the
Project Implementation Centers on project implementation; (c) arranging for
procurement of equipment through DGS&D and other equipment and civil works
through the Project Facilitation Units (PFUs) in the respective States/TTTIs;
(d) monitoring and reviewing the implementation of the project and
reformulating implementation schedules where necessary; (e) arranging for
technical assistance services for the project; (f) identifying
places/institutions for fellowship training and selecting staff to undergo
fellowships; (g) reviewing and evaluating the project from time to time as



- 20 -
well as undertaking needs assessment and studies in various areas, including
Labor Markets and the Employment of Polytechnic Graduates; The Costs and
Financing of Polytechnic Education: Production and Management Refonm in the
Industrial Sector and the Impact on Polytechnic Training; The Participation of
Female Polytechnic Graduates in the Modern Industrial Sector; and, Technology
Transfer and the Development of Training in Environmental Sciences in
Polytechnics. During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that
it shall maintain adequate staff in the NPIU according to an agreed Schedule
of Deployment of Key Additional Staff.
4.13     The National Project Directorate is headed by a Project Director with
the experience and status equivalent to a Joint Education Adviser (Technical
Education). The NPIU is headed by a Project Advisor, and has Academic, and
Resources Wings each with a number of Units. The first Unit is responsible
for coordinating, monitoring and reporting on procurement of goods and civil
works and award of contracts. The second Unit is responsible for accounts and
administrative matters as well as the organization and administration of
consultant services and fellowship programs. The third Unit is mainly
concerned with monitoring, review and evaluation and the operation of the
computer-based management information system. The linkages between PIUs at
the different levels and the organizational chart of the National Project
Implementation Unit are shown as Charts 5 and 6.
4.14     At the regional level, Project Facilitation Units (PFU) exist at each
of the four TTTIs and work closely with the Academic Wing of the NPIU and
concentrate on the pedagogical and professional aspects of the project like
curriculum, teaching and learning resource development, planning of programs,
utilizing consultant services, data gathering and the analysis and reporting
to the respective authorities on problems faced during implementation. During
the negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that it shall maintain
adequate staff in the TTTIs according to an agreed Schedule of Deployment of
Key Additional Staff.
4.15     Each State and Delhi would establish an Empowered Committee and a
State Project Implementation Unit (SPIU) which would: (a) provide guidelines
and directions for meeting targets to the Project Implementation Cells within
the Polytechnics; (b) disburse funds to institutions within the State; (z)
monitor and review project progress at frequent intervals and reformulate
implementation schedules; (d) provide data on a continual basis to the NPIU
within EDCIL; (e) arrange for and utilize local consultants; and (f) liaise
with the NPD, NPIU, the PICs, the TTTis and other agencies involved in
implementation. The States and Delhi have established their Empowered
Committees, identified and deputed Project Directors to the SPIUS, and
appointed architects to their respective SPIU.
4.16     The Project Implementation Cells (PICs) in the Polytechnics would be
responsible for needs assessment and optimizing the use of resource inputs
which are provided. Periodic progress reporting, problem identification and
solving at the institutional level would also be the responsibility of these
Cells. During negotiations, the States and Delhi provided assurances that
they shall provide additional staff, to the SPIU and Polytechnics in
accordance with an agreed Schedule of Deployment of Key Additional Staff.



- 2 1 -
F. Monitoring, Review and Evaluation
4.17     The NPIU/PFUs/SPIUs at the national, regional and State lvvelh, would
be responsible for gathering data at peiiodic intervals, processing it and
furnishing information to different agencies. A computerized Management
Informationi System (MIS) would be developed at the NPIU and the SPIUs. Ic
will contain all relevant project data and will produce output in a fornmat
which will facilitate monitoring and supervision. The GOI and the Association
have agreed on the Key Indicators of Progress and these are shown in Annex 26.
During negotiations, the GOI, the States and Delhi provided assurances that
they shall: (a) develop and establish a MIS in the NPIU and SPIUs, (b) in
conjunction with each other, implement a Project Supervision Plan as agreed
with the Association (Annex 27) and (c) undertake in conjunction with each
other and the Association, an annual review of project progress on the basis
of monitorable benchmarks agreed to by the Project States, Delhi and the
Association. The project's success would be measured on the basis of several
input and output variables. The key measurable inputs would be the number of
new technology courses introduced, the percentage of new and existing teachers
who would be trained and upgraded, and the number of workshops and
laboratories which would be modernized and made operational. The key measures
of success would be the increased numbers of graduating students, especially
women, the number of students who would have graduated under the Multi-Point
Entry and Credit System, and the increased percentage of students and teachers
who would have received industrial experience as part of their training.
G. Disbursements
4.18     Disbursement Percentages.  The IDA Credit would be disbursed against
902 of expenditures on civil works; 100l of CIF or ex-factory costs and 80% of
other local costs on furniture, equipment, vehicles, books and instructional
materials; 1002 of expenditures on consultant services and training; and on a
declining scale for salaries of incremental staff and incremental supplies as
follows; 802 until June 30, 1995; and 65Z thereafter for an overall average of
71Z.
4.19     Required Documentation.  Disbursements in respect of contracts for
civil works to cost less than US$300,000 equivalent and for goods, consultant
services and training valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent, and for
incremental salaries and incremental supplies would be made against Statements
of Expenditure by the respective Project Coordinators in the States.
Documentation for contracts with expatriate consultants and foreign fellowship
training only would be retained by the NPIU, and for all other activities by
the States. These would be made available for review by IDA staff during the
course of supervision missions. All other disbursements would be made against
fully documented withdrawal applications.
4.20     Special Account.  In order to accelerate disbursements in respect of
the IDA's share of expenditures prefinanced by GOI and the States, and in
order to allow for direct payment of other eligible local and foreign
expenditures, a Special Account would be opened in the Reserve Bank of India
with an initial deposit of US$13.0 million equivalent to cover four months of
expected requirements for IDA financed items.
4.21     Retroactive Financing up to US$3.0 million equivalent is provided to
cover eligible expenditures after September 30, 1990 for costs incurred in
preparing and implementing appraised project activities.



- 22 -
4.22     Disbursement Profile.  The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed
over an eight-year period. This is realistic given the design and
institutional development activities of the project. The preappraisal mission
evaluated the capacity of all project institutions to effectively implement
their programs in a timely manner. Specific emphasis and analysis was given to
the implementation of civil works and the procurement of equipment, including
the capacity of the PWDs in the States and the DGS&D at the Center to plan,
coordinate and monitor the civil works and equipment procurement programs.
Project duration therefore encompasses not only the time required for the
physical completion of various components but also includes an operational
period where the impact of training, and the management and administrative
reorganization elements of the project can be observed and measured. The
project is expected to be completed on December 31, 1998, and closed on June
30, 1999. The standard profile for education projects in Asia is seven and
one half years. The design of the project, the current status of preparation,
the measures which would be taken to expedite procurement and disbursement,
and the fact that the first Technician Education Project (May 1990) has an
eight year profile, reinforce the justification for an eight year disbursement
profile. A forecast of annual expenditures and disbursements is shown in
Annex 28.
H. Procurement
4.23     Procurement arrangements of the project are outlined in Table 4.3.
Contracts for Civil Works (US$135.30 million). The project would include
construction of various types at the 240 Polytechnics which are scattered over
the eight project States and Delhi and would be awarded over a five to six
year period (Annex 15). ICB is not therefore the most suitable mode of
procurement. Contracts for civil works would be awarded under LCB procedures
acceptable to the Association and foreign-firms registered in the country will
be able to part4.cipate. It is estimated that contracts exceeding US$300,000
representing 4bout US$74.42 million equivalent or 55Z of total civil works
costs would be awarded under LCB. Contracts for civil works below US$300,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$46.0 million equivalent
or about 34? of the total cost of civil works would be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three contractors
eligible under the Guidelines. Civil works contracts for small extensions and
renovations, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 per
contract o, to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$15.0 million would be
either ulrectly negotiated with one contractor or carried-out departmentally
by the Public Works Department.
4.24     Contracts for Furniture, Books and Instructional Materials (US$20.0
million) which would be spread amongst a variety of users over the life of the
project would not be appropriate for ICB, and therefore would be let through
LCB procedures which are acceptable to the Association. All furniture, books
and instructional materials are available from local manufacturers at very
economical prices. For English language textbooks in particular, foreign
firms would be encouraged to bid. Contracts for the purchase of furniture,
books and instructional materials estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of US$50,000 up to an aggregate of US$7.29 million may be awarded on the basis
of local shopping, with solicitation of price quotations from at least three
suppliers.
4.25     Contracts for Equipment and Vehicles (US$107.0 million).  The project
States and Delhi will use the Directorate General of Supply and Disposal
(DGS+D) for the centralized procurement of a large share of the equipment and



- 23 -
vehicles and continue the system initiated under the first Technician
Education project. Contracts of US$200,000 equivalent or more each for
equipment and vehicles would be awarded on the basis of ICB. About US$54.0
million equivalent suitable for bulk purchasing and representing 50% of total
equipment and vehicle costs would be procured under ICB. DGS+D tender
documents which are acceptable to the Association have already been prepared.
About US$35.0 million equivalent or about 332 of the cost of equipment and
vehicles, would be procured under LCB procedures which include foreign
participation. These are small purchases to be made by the 240 Polytechnics
over the life of the project and therefore ICB is not practical. Purchases of
other equipment costing less than US$50,000 each and not exceeding in
aggregate about US$16.0 million equivalent or about 152 of total equipment and
vehicle costs, may be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping with
solicitation of price quotations from at least three suppliers. Equipment of
a proprietary nature, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million equivalent
may be procured under contracts negotiated directly with the suppliers of such
equipment. The list of proprietary equipment to be purchased directly will be
subject to the Association'3 prior review.
Table 4.3: Procurement Method
Categories of                    US$ Millions                       Total
Expenditure              ICB        LCB         Other        NA     Cost
Civil Works                              74.42      60.88        -       135.30
inc. Prof. Fees                         (66.98)    (53.22)              (120.20)
Furniture                      -          7.74       5.16        -        12.90
(6.96)     (4.54)               (11.50)
Equipment & Vehicles         53.50       35.20      16.05       2.25    107.00
(48.15)    (31.71)    (14.44)    (1.50)   (95.80)
Books & Instructional          -          4.97       2.13        -         7.10
Materials                                (4.41)      (1.89)               (6.30)
Local Consultants              -           -         1.60        -         1.60
(1.40)               (1.40)
Foreign Consultants            -           -         0.10        -         0.10
(0.10)               (0.10)
Local Fellowships              -           -           -        4.70       4.70
(incl. Scholarships for Girls)                                 (4.70)    (4.70)
Foreign Fellowships            -           -          -         3.40       3.40
(3.40)    (3.40)
Salaries of                                -          -        64.10      64.10
Incremental Staff                                             (51.18)   (51.18)
Incremental                    -           -          -        25.90      25.90
Operational Costs                                             (12.52)   (12.52)
TOTAL                       52.50     122.33       85.92    100.35    362.10
IDA                         48.15     110.06       75.59      73.70    307.10
States                       0.55       8.85        4.25      16.15      29.80
GOI                          4.80        3.42       6.08      10.90      25.20
Note: Figures in parentheses represent IDA financing.
For equipment procured under ICB, a 152 domestic preference or the prevailing
import duties, whichever is lower, may be accorded for locally manufactured
equipment. All procurement under ICB would be subject to prior review and
approval of the Association.
4.26     Technical Assistance (US$1.7 Million).  Foreign and Local consultants
for capacity building would be selected according to the IDA Guidelines for



- 24 -
the Use o. Consultants and would be subject to prior review and approval of
the Association.
4.27     IDA Review.  Civil works contracts exceeding US$300,000 which
represent 55Z of the total cost of civil works and all equipment and vehicles
procured under ICB representing about 502 of total equipment and vehicle
costs, would be subject to prior review and approval by the Association. For
civil works contracts awarded under LCB, the Association would approve for
each State and Delhi, standard bid documents which would be used throughout
the project. Contracts for furniture, books and instructional materials over
US$200,000 each and totalling about US$13.0 million or about 65Z of the total
cost of furniture, books and instructional materials would be procured through
local competitive bidding and subject to prior review by the Association.
Overall, about 60Z of the project costs would be subject to prior review.
This percentage of prior review is considered satisfactory in view of the
agreed use of standard documents for LCB.
I. Accounting and Auditing
4.28     The project would be subject to normal GOI accounting and auditing
procedures which are considered satisfactory to IDA. The State Directorates
would maintain separate project accounts. The GOI and each State and Delhi
agreed during negotiation that: (a) accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year would be prepared and audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (b) statements of expenditures would be m%intained in
accordance with sound accounting practices, be maintained at least one year
after the completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal was made and a separate opinion on SOEs be included in the annual
audit; and (c) certified copies of the audited accounts including the Special
Account and financial statements for each fiscal year, together with the
Auditor's Report would be furnished to the Association as soon as available,
but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01     A major benefit of the proposed project is that it would provide
technicians of suitable quality and in the numbers required by the public and
private industrial sector in India. Over the project period about 30,500
additional technician training places would be created, representing about 40Z
of estimated total technician training needs. The emphasis given to the
promotion of Continuing Education and Distance Learning programs means that
there is a recognition that the system must also serve the rural and informal
sectors. These programs because of their design, content, and duration are
more suitable for working technicians, as well as skilled workers in the
informal sector. Expanded programs for women also means that serious efforts
are underway to more fully integrate women into the modern sector and expand
their opportunities for wage employment. Ultimately, the major benefit of the
project beyond numbers of students trained, is that it would assist in the
reformation of policies that previously constrained the Polytechnic system and
support institutional development processes such as the introduction of
flexibility in student entrance and graduation requirements, granting
academic, financial and administrative autonomy to a selected number of
Polytechnics in a phased manner, faculty development for teachers and
instructors, creating Curriculum Development Centers to develop courses and
training techniques which meet new and emerging sector requirements, and the



- 25 -
institutionalization of maintenance, internal revenue generation programs and
Institute-Industry Interaction programs. These changes would facilitate the
ability of the system to respond to a rapidly changing environment, and would
contribute to the technology transfer objective which is a key aspect of
development.
B. Risks
5.02     The major risk concerns the ability of individual States to undertake
a large integrated program of both policy reform and physical development.
This risk has to some extent been mitigated by the detailed Action Plans which
have been prepared by each State, the Detailed Project Reports prepared by
each Polytechnic and by the enhanced staffing of the Directorates and Boards
of Technical Education in the implementing States, and the support to be
provided to the States by the BTE and DGS&D in the Center. The problems of
implementation should also be minimized to a certain extent by the financing
arrangements agreed to by the States and Center, the form of project
supervision to be undertaken by the tNPIU and SPIUs, the annual reviews of
Action Plans and DPRs to be conducted by IDA with the States, and the
flexibility built into project design. Another risk is the availability of
suitably qualified instructors and the ability of the States to recruit and
maintain them in service. Each State has addressed this problem. Beyond
incentives such as housing and new pay scales, the developmant of career
development systems which would allow instructors to advance in their careers
and also give them the opportunity to take time out to work in industry with
no loss of seniority, is expected to assist considerably in overcoming this
risk.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.01     During negotiations, the GOI provided assurances that it shall:
(a) withhold and cause the Project States and Delhi to withhold the
establishment of any new publicly funded Polytechnic in the project
States and Delhi without the prior approval of the AICTE (para 3.09);
(b) by December 1, 1991, jointly with the States and Delhi, develop and
institute and thereafter maintain fellowship training programs,
including study tours, as agreed with the Association (para 3.27);
(c) staff and maintain the NPIU and the TTTIs according to an agreed
Schedule of Deployment of Key Additional Staff (paras 4.12 and 4.14);
and
(d) in conjunction with the project States and Delhi and the Association,
undertake an annual review of project progress on the basis of
monitorable benchmarks agreed to by the project States, Delhi and the
Association (para 4.17).
6.02     During negotiations, the States and Delhi provided assurances that
they shall:
(a) (i) by December 31, 1991, review the current practices and levels of
internal revenue generation for their respective Polytechnics and
develop plans to increase internal revenue generation through various
ways and means; and (ii) cause their respective Polytechnics to
charge fees to recover the full costs of continuing education



- 26 -
programs being administered by them for public and private sector
industry (paras 3.08 and 3.10);
(b) introduce in a phased manner, the Multi-Point Entry and Credit System
in selected disciplines and Polytechnics (para 3.09);
(c) develop and expand diploma programs for women and in conjunction
therewith, make concurrent efforts including the establishment of a
Special Cell in each Women's Polytechnic, to identify and obtain
suitable employment opportunities for women (para 3.13);
(d) (i) provide additional staff to their respective Directorates and
Boards of Technical Education, SPIUs, Polytechnics and other related
institutions in accordance with an agreed Schedule of Deployment of
Key Additional Staff; and (ii) institute by January 31, 1992, a
Faculty Development System for technical teachers in accordance with
a plan satisfactory to the Association (para 3.16, 3.22, and 4.17);
(e) prepare and furnish to the Association by December 31 of each year,
draft annual plans for the next fiscal year for (i) the introduction
of new technician programs in their respective Polytechnics; (ii) the
construction of new and rehabilitation of existing facilities; and
(iii) training of teachers including local and foreign fellowships
(paras 3.16, 3.17, and 4.09);
(f) (i) provide adequate resources for their respective Polytechnics for
the maintenance of buildings and equipment; and (ii) delegate
appropriate financial powers to Polytechnic Principals to enable them
to undertake annual maintenance programs at their respective
Polytechnics (para 3.19);
(g) promote close interaction of Polytechnics with industry by (i)
developing and implementing Industry-Institute Interaction programs
satisfactory to the Association and (ii) constituting an Industry-
Institute Interaction Cell at each of their respective Polytechnics,
and Directorates of Technical Education; and (iii) appointing
Advisory Committees and Industrial Liaison and Placement Officers to
lead the said Industry-Institut( Interaction Cells (para 3.26);
(h) by December 1, 1991, jointly with the GOI, develop and institute and
thereafter maintain fellowship training programs, including study
tours, as agreed with the Association (para 3.27); and
(i) (i) develop and establish an MIS in the NPIU and SPIUs (ii) in
conjunction with the GOI, implement a Project Supervision Plan as
agreed with the Association, and (iii) in conjunction with the GOI
and the Association, undertake an Annual Review of project progress
on the basis of benchmarks agreed to by the GOI and the Association
(para 4.17).
6.03     With the above assurances, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 213.5 million (US$307.1 million
equivalent) to India at standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



27
ANNEX 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Polytechnics by State Showing Enrollments (1988/89)
PoIyt.ch,. ca  FoI,t.chn,ca
States            _        Nube5o  p  Povt , 'c.         ^ -co f ^e            Offs- In/
C%b                    OC r   tn  Can^i   P&rt t *e  Post-d-plo.ns   &y a
Totat  Coed   eonen.-               Tot.!   Co..uans
And. Pr.deah          56     42      14            23      79        6                 3         9,300         2,700       12,000
As...                  8       7       1            -        8       -                 2         3,100           350        3,450
Haeyna                14      11      3             -       14       1                 3         1,870           350        2 220
H,M&.hal P-ade.h       4       3       1            -        4       -                 2           600           100           700
maha.ahtis            51      48      3           187     289        6                 a        23,000         3,000       26,000
Pi,rJmb               18      14      2             -      18        4                 1         3,500            D00        4,000
T*.!l Ned.            S5    44       11            74     129       IS                10        19,000         6,400       25,400
West 86ngaI           30      29       1            -      30        9                 -        12,300           250        12,5SW
Doh.                   8       6      2            10       18       3                 2         5,355         1,800         7,155
Tot.1   242    204       38          294      589       44               29        78,025         15,450       93,475
So-rce  Stat. D r.ctoras of Technical Educat or
1/  Co.. not   dude P,inatq PoIyt.chhcs..



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Guidelines for Recognition of Private Polytechnics
Guidelines Laid Down by the All India Council for Technical Education
for Fulfilment by the Private Technical Institutions for AICTE's Approval
(a)      The finar.cial position of the Organizaton is sound.
(b)      The Organization  is genuinely interested in the development of
technical education and has a history/background of developing
educational facilities with or without aid from Central or State
Governments.
(c)      The management system including Governing Council should be as per
guidelines laid down by the AICTE.
(d)      The Chairman of the Governing Council shall be appointed as per
norms laid down by the AICTE.
(e)      The infrastructure and other facilities should be provided as per
norms laid down by the AICTE.
(f)      The admissions should be made strictly on merit and the institutions
concerned should join the entrance test at the national or at the
State level or associate with the tests conducted by the
technological institutions of national importance or similar other
bodies and admit students based on the results of any one of these
tests in order of merit.
(g)      The tuition and other fees should be prescribed as laid down by the
State Government in the over-all criteria prescribed by the AICTE.
(h)      The Institute should be financially and academically viable.
(i)      The courses  to be started should be as per assessed technical
manpower needs and should be as far as possible in emerging areas or
where employment potential is clearly foreseen.
(j)      The accounts of the Institute should be audited by a Chartered
Accountant and be open for inspection by AICTE or anybody authorized
by it.
(k)      The staff should be recruited on all India basis by open selection
as per qualification and experience etc., laid down by the AICTE.
(1)      The reservation in these private institutions may be provided as per
policy of the respective State Governments.



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
The Technical Education System in India
1.        Industrial workers in India are developed through a system of
publicaly financed training and education institutions, private institutions,
informal sector apprenticeship-type training arrangements, and the in-plant
training programs conducted by public and private sector enterprises. The
publicaly finaniced technical education system operates at three levels.
2.        Certificate level programs produce skilled workers and are operated
at about 1,887 Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) run by the Directorate
General of Employment and Training (DGET) in the Ministry of Labor at the
Center. About 325,000 students are trained annually in about 140 trade areas,
and the entry requirement to these programs is 10 years of basic education.
Vocational education certificate level courses are offered in agriculture,
business, commerce, health and paramedical, home science and humanities. in
addition to engineering trades.  Another 1,500 vocational schools offer thesa
courses, admitting about 72,000 students annually. The National Council for
Vocational Training at the national level, and the Directorates of Vocational
Training in the States look after the planning and operation of this scheme.
3.        Diploma program producing middle-level supervisory staff who are
designated as technicians, are operated at over 467 Polytechnics. Admission
to this program requires 10 years of basic education, and courses are of three
years durat-on in the conventional disciplines of civil, mechanical and
electrical engineering. About 20Z of the Polytechnics offer programs in other
fields. In all, programs are offered in 90 engineering and non-engineering
disciplines admitting about 68,000 students annually. A few institutions
conduct post-diploma and advanced diploma programs in selected areas.
4.        Degree level institutions in engineering can be divided into three
groups: Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs); Regional Engineering Colleges
(RECs) and State Engineering Colleges (SECs). The 5 IITs offer both
undergraduate and graduate and research degree programs with a bias to
technology development, and admit about 1,300 students for res.arch and
graduate programs each year. These are national institutions and are fully
funded by the Government of India (GOI). There are 17 Regional Engineering
Colleges (RECs) which offer undergraduate, postgraduate and research degree
programs. Thav have an annual intake of about 4,650 for the Bachelor's Degree
and 850 for the Masters Degree. There are 272 State Engineering Colleges
which offer undeigraduate programs with an annual intake of about 24,000
students. A few of these institutions also offer graduate programs with an
annual intake of about 3,800 students.
5.        There are four Technical Teacher Training Institutes (TTTIs) which
prepare graduates in engineering and diploma holders to become teachers in
polytechnics. These institutions have, over the years, de- Loped as resource
institutions for the technical education system.  In %r   -on to offering in-



30 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
service teacher traininig programs, they also undertake projects in areas such
as curriculum, media, and management development, educational research,
measurement and evaluation, laboratory instruction, policy analysis, and
research and computer education. They also offer consultant services to the
central and state governments, industry, and other organizations in the
country.
6.        Quality Improvement Centers at IITs and other selected institutions
offer Masters and Doctoral programs for teachers in Engineering Colleges, REC
and IlTs; and in addition, organize short courses in various areas of
engineering and technology. The Indian Society for Technical Educaticn (ISTE)
sponsors a number of summer and winter schools for teachers of engineering
colleges, RECs and IlTs. The teaching faculty in these institutions include
Principal/DIrector, Professors, Associate Professor/Assistant Professors and
Lecturers. The sanctioned teaching staff strength of all categories is about
18,000. However, the vacancy rate is about 22Z, with vacancies at the
lecturer position being 26Z, 25.5? at the Assistant Professor level, and about
18.4Z at the Associate Professor/Professor positions.
Management and Administration of Technical Education
7.        The planning, promotion, and control of technical education rests
with the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and the Bureau of
Technical Education in Department of Education, Ministry of Human Resources
Development at the national level (Chart 3). The system is operated at the
state level by the Directorates and State Boards of Technical Education. The
AICTE is the apex body providing leadership in the planning, promotion and
regulation of technical education in the country. It has fxve All India
Boards of Technical Studies for: (a) Vocational Education (b) Technician
Education; (c) Undergraduate Studies; (d) Post-Graduate Engineering Studies
and Research; and (e) Management Studies (Chart 4). The Bureau of Technical
Education acts as the adminstrative or governmental arm of AICTE and its
various Boards, while at the same time, has powers relating to the processing,
implementation, monitoring, control and evaluation of programs and projects in
Central institutions, and centrally-sponsored and Plan schemes. The National
Technical Manpower Information System (NTMIS) at the center with nodal points
in the states, furnishes relevant manpower information for technical education
planning. In the states, State Departments/Directorates/Boards of Technical
Education are responsible for the planning, management, administration and
funding of technical education.
FINANCING
8.        The financing of technical education is undertaken by both the
Center and the States under two heads: Non-Plan and Plan expenditures. Non-
Plan expenditures cover on-going programs and existing institutions, while
Plan expenditures are incurred on new projects/schemes which are funded during
the Five-Year Plan period. Many Plan schemes continue after five years and
thus become non-plan programs. The financing of education by the Center and
States by level under the First through Sixth Five-Year Plan is shown in
attached Table 2. The Central Government finances technical education under
two major areas: ceni,ral institutions and Central Intervention Schemes, and



31 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
has over the previous six Five-Year Plans allocated about 12Z of education
resources to technical education.
CENTRAL FUNDING OF EDUCATION
Educational  First  Second  Third  Fourth  Holiday  Fifth  Sixth
Level         Plan   Plan    Plan   Plan    Plan       Plan   Plan
------------------ Rs. Millions -------------------
Total
General       133    224      848    241      697      1092    2247
(87)   (82)    (79)   (75)    (85)       (85)    (89)
Technical      20     49      125     81      125       156      27C
(13)   (10)    (21)   (25)    (15)        (12)    (11)
Grand Total  153    273       589    322      823      1285    2524
(100)  (100)   (100)  (100)   (100)    (100)   (100)
Note: Figures in brackets are percentages to total.
9.        The Center finances a number of national level institutes including
the 5 IlTs, 17 RECs, 4 Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs), School of
Planning and Architecture, National Institute of Foundry and Forge Technology.
National Institute of Training in Industrial Engineering (NITIE), the 4 TTTIs,
the International Center for Science and Technology Education (ICSTE), the
North Eastern Regional Institute of Science and Technology, the Indian
Institute of Technology in Assam, and the Longowal Institute of Technology and
Engineering in Punjab.
10.       GOI also funds a number of programs for quality improvement and
consolidation of t.e system operated by the States.  Central Assistance
Schemes include the following:
(a)    Community Polytechnics;
(b)    Modernization and removal of obsolescence;
(c)    Establishment of Quality Improvement Centers;
(d)   Vocational Education;
(e)    Post-Gradu.te Programs and Research;
(f)    Computerization and the development of computer technology;
(g)    Technical education in the Universities and Apprenticeship training
of Engineering graduates and Diploma Holders;
(h)    Expansion of facilities in the areas of weakness; and
(i)    Creation of infrastructure in emerging technology areas.
11.       State financing of technical education includes the whole or part
financing of RECs and Polytechnics.  In the case of RECs, the states cover 502
of recurring expenditures and provide land and other amenities. The other
costs are borne by GOI. The States are fully responsible for the



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
Polytechnics, and also finance privately managed and approved Engineering
Colleges and Polytechnics at levels varying from 752 to 95Z of recurring
expenditure.
12.      About 20Z of the students who enroll in Polytechnics and RECs
receive stipends and fellowships. All students from scheduled castes and
backward tribes receive free education as well as followships. All Post-
Graduate students and Doctoral candidates are provided with fellowships. The
average expenditure by a student on boarding and lodging is about Rs.300 per
month for Polytechnics and Rs. 500 per month for RECs.
EMPLOYMENT
13.      It is estimated that about 272 of technicians and engineering
graduates find employment in the public sector undertaking, 382 in the private
sector, 23Z in State Governments and local bodies; 52 in the Central
Government and the remainder in other areas. About 73Z of graduates typically
find employment in Government, while only 172 go into manufacturing, 9.62 in
Electricity and Gas, and 0.42 in repair and maintenance.
EMPLOYMENT DETAILS OF ENGINEERS AND TECHNICIANS
-------------------------------------------------------------__-
Z employed   Zemployed   Others
2 employed  in Public   in Private  including
Institution   (Tota)     Sector       Sector      Self-employed
--------------------------------------------------------__------
Regional Engg.  85-90     30-35        25-30        30-35
Colleges
Other Engg.     75-80     20-25        20-25        25-30
Colleges
Polytechnics    55-60    20-25         20-25        25-30
----------------------------------------------------------------
Note: A large number is employed in the unorganized sector, in small scale
industries and in countries outside India. The exact details of these are not
available.



3 33 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
Table 1: Center and State Plan Outlays for Education During Five Year Plans
CENTER                              STATES
Z Education                       Z Education
All                     to All       All                    to All
Plan      Sectors   Education    Sectors    Sectors  Education   Sectors
-- Rs. Millions ---                  -- Rs. Millions --
I          899        44           4.9         1457      126         8.6
II         2559        70           2.7         2241      207          9.2
III         3600       148           4.1         3900      412         10.6
IV         8871       271           3.1         7031      551          7.8
V        20437       405           2.0        18866      800          4.2
VI        47250       735           1.6        50250    1789           3.6
Table 2: Intra-Sectoral Resource Allocation for Education
in India during Plan Periods
Educational         First   Second   Third   Fourth    Plan         Fifth   Sixth
Level            Plan      Plan    Plan       Plan    Holiday   Plan    Plan
Elementary *         85        95       178        65      235       410      906
(56)      (35)     (30)    (200)       (29)      (32)    (36)
Secondary            20        51      103         53      118       250      398
(13)      (19)     (18)      (16)      (14)      (19)    (16)
University           14        48        87        77       184      292      486
(13)      (19)     (18)      (16)      (14)      (19)    (16)
Other                14        48        87        77      184       292      486
(General) **        (13)     (19)      (18)      (16)      (14)      (19)    (16)
*   including pre-school education.
**  including teacher, education social education (youth services),
cultural programs, etc.



- 34 -
-. 34 -ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Problems and Issues in Technical Education
Introduction
1.    Despite the impressive growth and diversification which the technical
education system in India has undergone in the past four decades, it still
suffers from a variety of problems which are directly related to and affect
its capacity to respond to the changing needs in the society, the quality of
graduates which it produces, and the efficiency with which it is operated.
Capacity
2.    As the industrial modernization process increases in momentum in India,
the emphasis in production is shifting from the older labor-intensive
industries to ones requiring more skill-oriented manpower. Technical skills
in new areas and familiarity with new methods of technology are becoming
increasingly important. There is consensus in India today that the country
needs two distinct types of technical personnel at the diploma level to
respond to these changes: these are the Technician and the Technician-
Engineer. This would be in keeping with industrial developments, training,
and employment patterns in the advanced and middle-income countries.
3.    Given the requirements for these different types of workers and the
emerging demand for a wide variety of diversified and specialized occupations,
the Polytechnics are not as yet capable of fully responding to these needs.
For example, 80% of the Polytechnics offer only the conventional courses in
civil, mechanical, and electrical engineering, while only 202 offer some form
of diversified program. Only 11 Polytechnics offer Advanced Technician
Diploma programs, which are designed to produce the Technician-Engineer. The
Emerging Areas where programs are required but are not yet underway include
non-conventional energy including bio-gas conversion and gasification of
fuels, environmental engineering, bio-technology, communication and irforma-
tion processing, computer-aided design and manufacturing (CAD/CAM), fiber
optics, microprocessors, oceanography, vacuum technology and cryogenics.
4.    A second problem, which is directly rLiated to the system's capacity to
respond to changing needs, is the rigidity in the structure of various diploma
programs. In India, as in most countries, there is the formal institution-
based diploma program. However, the need for a highly flexible system where
students can gain entry and reentry through part-time, day and/or block-
release programs is a necessity. The Diploma course. is of three-year duration
for all courses and all students, despite the fact that some come with 12
years of basic education from the school system or are Industrial Training
Institute (ITI) graduates. Gujarat has introduced the Multi-point Entry and
Credit System which is explained in more detail in Annex 10. The eight States
participating in the First Technician Education Project will also gradually
introduce this system in selected Polytechnics. About 252 of the existing
Polytechnics offer part-time diploma programs of eight-semesters duration.
Most of these are in conventional subjects and the same as the regular



- 35 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
program. The need for introducing flexibility into the technician education
system and developing responsive continuing education programs is clear. This
is particularly obvious when it is noted that there is a stock of about one
million engineers and technicians who require updating and retraining to meet
the changing needs of industry and the modern sectors.
5.    While the technical education system has concentrated on producing
workers for the organized sector, about 752 of the population live in rural
areas and are engaged in activities in the so-called "unorganized" sector.
There is a need therefore for technical education institutions to respond in
some way to this prevalent pattern of employment by offering relevant pro-
grams. Of the 467 Government Polytechnics, 129 of them have undertaken
programs which address some rural development problems. Typically, these
Polytechnics offer short courses which are responsive to local needs and they
act as "service" centers for rural artisans and entrepreneurs. These
'Community Polytechnics" are the only real response to date to this need and
demand.
6.    While women constitute about 50  of the population, their participation
in technician education is low. Only 40 out of about 240 Polytechnics in the
proposed project States offer courses to women, and only 14% of enrollment in
Polytechnics are women. The courses which are offered tend to be traditional
and do not facilitate the participation of women in modern sector wage
employment. One of the major obstacles to female enrollment is the lack of
separate residential accommodation at the Polytechnics. It has also been
suggested that few women seek admission to coeducational programs, preferring
instead to enroll in exclusively female institutions.
Quality
7.    Although many of the technical education institutions such as the Indian
Institutes of Technology (IITs) turn out students who are in demand both
domestically and internationally, the quality of training is poor in the
Polytechnics. The most prominent reason for this is a teaching force which
lacks adequate pedagogical training as well as industrial experieince. The
system has been unable to attract and sustain the motivation of teachers
because of non-competitive pay scales and other amenities of which the
provision of housing is critically important. Hence, about 30Z of teaching
positions at the Polytechnics remain vacant.
8.    Of the 15,000 teachers in the Polytechnics, only 2,000 have undergone
formal teacher training, and only another 4,500 some type of short duration
training course. With the need to expand programs in new areas, it is
estimated that about 10,000 teachers have to be trained in long-term programs
and another 6.000 in updating courses. The Technical Teacher Training
Institutes (TTTIs) have so far been able to train only about 20% of the
existing stock of Polytechnic teachers. Their capacity would have to be
doubled to meet a part of the demand for institutional training, as well as
for them to organize other distance education programs. Industrial training
facilities are rarely utilized for training faculty, and specialized programs
to train faculty in educational technology, curriculum development,
preparation of training aids, media design, testing, and evaluation and
planning, do not exist at the State level.



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
.   A major factor which emerges from this lack of formal content updating.
training in pedagogic skills, and industrial experience, is that teachers
revert to 'chalk and talk, teaching practices. The majority of teachers have
been unable to introduce instructional strategies such as student-centered and
resource-based learning because of the lack of instructional (hard and
software) materials, particularly a variety of media including television and
:omputers. Computers are seen as especially impartant in the training of
!ngineers and technicians.   The lack of print/non-print materials, repro-
-raphic facilities, and books and journals in functioning libraries when
zombined with limited teacher training, lower the standard of instruction and
the quality of trainees who graduate from these institutions.
1O.   The limited flexibility and course selection in the Diploma program is
reflected in the curriculum. While the TTTIs and State Boards of Technical
Education are charged with the task of assisting the Polytechnics with
important tasks like the systematic reappraisal of teaching technology,
levelopment of teaching aids, and learning resources materials, student
evaluation, preparation of teaching manuals and the training of teachers in
educational technologies, little has been done in the past. Both the TTTIs
and the Boards of Technical Education are being strengthened in the First
rechnician Education Project to be Regional and State-level Resource Centers
respectively.
Ll.   The quality of the system is also affected by the equipment and
Facilities available for teaching, as well as the learning environment. Over
the years, obsolescence of equipment and instructional facilities have assumed
!normous proportions at the Polytechnics.  About 60Z of the Polytechnics were
*stablished two or three decades ago, hence much of the equipment and labora-
tories are not only outdated but unserviceable.  The "standard equipment
Lists' which were prepared twenty-five years ago need replacing not only
jecause of age, but because of changing syllabi, introduction of new courses,
and the use of different equipment in industry.  Laboratories in particular
ieed modernization, as it would be especially difficult to correlate theore-
tical courses with experimental work in the absence of up-to-date modern
Facilities. The need for computers and electronic instrumentation is also
*vident. Only 1OZ of the Polytechnics have computer facilities. Hostels and
-taff housing at the Polytechnics are totally inadequate.
1fficiency
L2.   The technical education system needs considerable strengthening to
Lmprove its internal and external efficiency. At present systematic planning
Ls hampered by the lack of relevant, meaningful and reliable information about
.he internal and external efficiency of the system and for decision making at
,he right levels at the right time. For example, the National Technical
4anpower Information System 1/ only covers occupations by categories and
juantitative information on broad areas of supply and demand. It does not
:ake into account changing job profiles and income patterns. As important,
-here is no organized system for evaluating on a continuing basis the demand
,y industry for Polytechnic graduates, for diversification and phasing out of
L/ SAR, India: Technician Education Project, Report No.8384-IN, Annex 7.



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
on-going programs, and for the introduction of new programs in emerging
technologies. The Institute for Applied Manpower Research (IAMR) is the lead
Center in the NTMIS, but performance both at the IAMR and at the nodal centers
in the States needs support. What is needed is to link the NTMIS to a broader
computerized management information system. This problem is being addressed in
the First Technician Education Project.
13.   Employment and External Efficiency.  India has the third largest pool of
technicians in the world. Different data sources suggest that manufacturing
jobs increased at a much slower pace in the 1980s than in the 1970s, despite a
sharp rise in industrial growth. This was a result of increased capital
intensity brought about by a policy envirot. jnt which discouraged job crea-
tion. Given the need for India to generate productive employment in the next
few decades, new industrial labor strategies and policies are necessary. 2/
Assuming that industrial growth, especially in the manufacturing sector will
continue apace in the foreseeable future, a shift is needed from the present
practice of preserving employment and upgrading existing jobs in existing
firms, to an aggressive policy of promoting substantial employment growth in
order to insure that higher growth i s translated into higher labor demands.
14.   Since the mid 1950s, India has made significant efforts in policy
reforms as evidenced by the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act of
1951 and the Second Industrial Policy Resolution in 1956. Although these
reforms have resulted in significant overall output and investment growth,
there is still insufficient technological progress in a large number of
subsectors. 3/ For future industrial expansion, India should take advantage
of three sectors, industrial electronics, computers and data processing, and
telecommunications, which are less penalized by the industrial environment
than other areas of activity and which in addition, thrive on intensive use of
skilled manpower.
15.   Graduates of Polytechnics are primarily employed at the skilled
technician level or as supervisors for semi-skilled and unskilled workers.
Because of the dearth of employment at this level, diploma graduates have been
known to accept jobs which require far lower qualifications, resulting in
underemployment. At present, 40Z of Polytechnic graduates are employed in the
organized sector where limited employment growth has pushed up wages and other
labor costs as compared to the unorganized sector. 4;
16.   Data analyzed on the demand for and supply of technicians at the all-
India level and by engineering specialty show that there has been an over-
2/  World Bank, India: Poverty, Employment and Social Services, Country
Economic Memorandum, Report No. 7617-IN, February 2, 1989.
3/  World Bank, India: Policies for Industrial Technology Development,
Report No. 6715-IN, May 11, 1987.
4/  The unorganized sector includes household establishments and small-
scale establishments with less than ten workers and power, or less
than 20 workers and no power.



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
zupply in civil engineering since the late 1970s. 5/ If no policy
intervention is initiated, this situation will result in a cumulative surplus
of over 85,000 civil engineering technicians by the year 1995/96. Although
there is at present an oversupply of mechanical engineers, it is expected that
the economic growth rate of about 5Z predicted for the Eighth (1990-94) Plan
will absorb this excess up to the year 1992/93 after which there could be an
undersupply. In the case of electrical engineers, demand is expected to
exceed supply by 1990/91 with a cumulative gap of over 51,000 by 1995/96. For
chemical, metallurgical and electronics engineering technicians, demand has
already exceeded supply in the region of 1,500, 5,000, and 6,000 respectively
for the year 1988/89. If the GOI's industrial policy is to move rapidly into
emerging technology areas, i.e., electronics, computers and data processing,
and telecommunications, and is to succeed, the out-turn of graduates in these
disciplines will have to be increased as soon as possible.
17.   In order to close the gap between the demand for and supply of
technicians, there are three fundamental areas which must be addressed in the
coming decade. These are to: (a) plan the supply of technicians by
engineering specialty to meet the needs of new technology industries and the
unorganized sector; (b) curtail oversupply in disciplines which are saturated;
and (c) provide incentives and opportunities to industries which disseminate
modern technologies which are labor intensive and those where India has a
competitive advantage.
18.   For the above policies to work, the linkages between industry and
Polytechnics which are presently weak, need considerable improvement. These
linkages are being strengthened in the eight States participating in the First
Technician Education Project. Industry sometimes considers Polytechnics
graduates too theoretical for immediate employment.  Technical education
institutions sometimes do not sufficiently appreciate that developing the
technical skills and knowledge of students to participate in industrial
production is their main function. Interaction with the community,
professional societies, and amongst institutions is also not very strong.
Polytechnics tend to operate in isolation and major efforts will be required
to get programs to be more relevant to the needs of industry. In such an
environment, internal as well as external efficiency will remain low,
contributing to unfavorable performance and high costs per graduate. A system
which is not well integrated with industry and not delivering the right
product, needs substantial revision and changes. The Community Polytechnics,
of which there are 129, provide some links to the rural and informal sector.
19.   While dropouts are not a major problem, repetition is more prevalent in
the system. Since admission to Polytechnics is usually on the basis of merit,
the relatively better students gain admission and dropouts are low. The
largest number of dropouts is normally in the first year and is generally due
to students transferring to better institutions. Even in the private
institutions where students of relatively lower merit are admitted, dropout
rates are not very high. Students here pay high capitation fees for admission
and are guaranteed graduation. The highest dropout rate is seen among
scheduled caste and tribe students. In post-graduate courses, the dropout
5/ SAR, India: Technician Education Project, Report No.8384-IN, Annex 8.



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
rates range between 30% and 60%, but this is due in large part to candidates
gaining employment.
20.   The examination system requires change and a rational student
performance assessment system needs to be developed. The results of a recent
examination of 700 first-year Polytechnic students at the end of the first
semester revealed that only 29% were successful in the entire examination.
Further, from a sample of 251 students entering three-year courses in two
Polytechnics, only 46Z successfully completed their Diploma in the prescribed
time. In some cases, examinations do not fairly reflect the curriculum. In
other cases, standards which are set for passing are unreasonably high. The
unrestricted "carry-overt reduces the motivation of students and burdens
teachers with groups of students with an unreasonably wide range of achieve-
ment. It would be appropriate to revise and publish comprehensive guides for
examiners on the setting, marking and moderating of question papers as is done
by the City Guilds of London which is the examining body in technical educa-
tion in the United Kingdom.
21.   More than dropouts and repeaters, it is the disinterested student who
poses a serious problem in the system. Student indiscipline has increased in
recent years, and this has a relationship to the nonacademic environment, poor
instructors, postponement of examinations, unemployment of graduates, and
political interference in the activities of these institutions. Absence of
proper guidance and counselling services and indifference toward the community
have aggravated the problem. Guidance and counselling services in an or-
ganized form are absent in most institutions. Placement services should be
provided by a Placement Officer, but in most institutions this position does
not exist or is unfilled. Even campus interviews with potential employers are
not arranged by all the institutes.
22.   The organizations and institutions which operate the system need
strengthening if the efficiency is to be improved. The Bureau of Technical
Education (BTE) and its four regional offices need assistance. The work load
of the BTE has increased, particularly its role as the Secretariat to the
AICTE, but this has not been accompanied by the necessary expansion of staff.
The State Directorates and Boards of Technical Education are mainly concerned
with administration. Typically, the Directorates have no professional units
for promoting industry-institute linkages, Community Polytechnics, employment
planning and curriculum development. The Boards are concerned only with
conducting examinations but need to be involved in curriculum development and
review. With the mushrooming of private technical institutions, there is also
a need to maintain performance standards. A system of approval/sanction,
recognition and ultimate accreditation is now in its infancy. At the
institutional level, efficiency can be improved when Polytechnics are
autonomous in financial, administrative and academic matters. By the
completion of the First Technician Education Project, a total of 49
Polytechnics will enjoy some degree of autonomy.



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
The Ten-Year (1990-99) Technician Education Investment Program
l OBJECTTVE:                                 8th Five Year Planl9th Fiv- Yoar Plani       Total    I
COMPONENT/ACTIVITY             (1990-94)   1      (1995-99)   I   (1649)  1
Rs.       US8  I  Rx.       USS   I  R.    USS $
-     -     -     -      -     -     --           -     - _    I--  - - - --__      I-
i------------- llion-----------------
l CAPACITY EXPANSION:                                          |                   l
I Now Technology Programs                                       I                  I               I
- Introduco 80 New Diploma programs and     1215.1   72.8  I 1413.0   84.6  I 2828.1  167.4
100 Advanced Technician Diploma programs
- Develop 16 now Polytechnics               1726.9   108.4  1 2108.9  128.3  I 3836.8  229.7
-      ---------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---------------
Continuing Education Programs:
I - Establish 20 Continuing Education Centers  37.5    2.2  I   62.6         3.7  I 100.0    5.9 I
l    in the State Boards of Technical Education                I                   I               I
I - Establish 100 Departments of Continuing    484.6    27.8  I  664.6   39.8  I 1129.0  87.6 I
Education
I Rural and Informal Sector Program*                           I                   I               l
l - Expand community Polytechnic system         841.0   20.4  I  461.0   27.6 8      802.0  48.0 I
l - Establish 4 Special Institutions of         523.0   31.8  l  142.0    8.6  I 605.0  39.8 1
l   Appropriate Tochnology                                     |
l - Undortake 4 experimental projectx for the   91.4      6.6  I    2.6      0.2  I  94.0    5.7
application of science and technology to
rural development
IWomen and Handicapped Programs
- Establish 26 residential women's          1289.8   76.0    1613.2    90.6  I 2882.8  172.6 I
Polytechnic*                                               |                  I               I
- Establish 10 Departments of Technical
Education for the handicapped               92.2     6.5  I   92.2       6.6  I 184.4  11.0
Student and Faculty Housing Programs                          I                  I               I
l - Construct hostelc for 20,000 boys and      1841.1  110.2  I  892.6   53.4  I 2733.8  163.6
I   10,000 girls, and houses for 7,800 teachers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
1 OBJECTIVE:                                8th Five Y-or Plsnl9th Five Year Plani       Total    I
COMPONENT/ACTIVITY             (1990-i4)   I      (1995-99)   1   (1O   g9)  1
Ro.       US$  I  Re.       USI   I  Re.    USS$
------------------million-----------------
I QUALITY IMPROVEMENT:                                         I                  l 
| Toech-r Education and Training ProgrOmO                      I                  I               I
I - Strengthon 4 Technical Teacher su Training  606.5  80.3        3 384.8    23.8  I 891.3  5638 I
l   Institutes. c                                                                                 l
Curriculum Devolopment and Research Programs
- Establish Curriculum Development Centers   129.0   7.7        134.0     8.0      2683.0  15.7 |
in 26 states Boards of Technical Educotion                I                                  i
Equipment and Facility Improveent Programs                   1                  1
- Modernize equipment in 467 Polytechnic    4866.4  29.1    1338.7   80.1  1  96.1 109.2 1
I EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT:                                                         I               l
r Internal Efficiency Pro9ams 
- Str-ngthening tho management system by      214.2  12.8  1  284.3   14.0  1 448.5  26.8 1
a a) establishing All India Board of                           l                  I
s studies for Continuing Education; b)                         l                  l
i   strengthening the All India Board of                       l                  l               I
i   Technical Eduetion; c) establishing                       l                  l               I
* computerized managoemnt Information                     1                  l
i   system; and d) giving acodemic autonomy to                 I                  l               I
a limited number of Polytechnics                          I                  l
External Efficieney Programs
- Expand & strengthen the National Technical  148.7   8.9  I 169.9        9.4  I 806.8   8. 
;   Manpower Information System                                l                  l
j - Establish s National Board of Accreditation  19.4    1.2  I 23.8         1.4  I  42.7   2.8 6
BASE COSTS                                 13885.8  801.5 6   981E.1   687.7  1 23200.9 1389.21
l Contingercios                                                lI                                 I
Physical (9.8%)                               1311.8  78.8  1 942.2    56.4  1 2254.0 135.0 O
Price (18%)                                  2361.6  140.8  1 3834.8   199.7  1 6888.4 340.6 1
l Sub total                                    3688.4  219.4     4277.0   256.1  l 7940.4 476. 6
Total Costs                                 17049.2 1020.9  114092.1   843.8  l 31141.3 1864.71
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__--------------------



- 42 -
ANNEX 6
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Present Fee Structure at Polytechnics in Project States
Existing Annaul Fee Structure         Annual      Z of cost
State             Tuition   Boarding   Other   Total  Operational   covered
Cost per    by student
student         Fees
Andhra Pradesh       72.00   150.00        -      222.00    5500.00          42
Assam               120.00   103.00    108.00   331.00   10500.00         3.3?
Haryana  Govt.      180.00   300.00    336.00   816.00    8537.00         9.9Z
Himachal Pradesh    Nil    120.00    540.00   660.00   12500.00           5.8?
Maharashtra         200.00  3600.00    200.00  4000.00    6500.00         2.72
Punjab                Nil      75.00     Nil       75.00    8800.00       0.42
West Bengal       144.00    144.00        20.00   164.00    7000.00       2.3Z
Delhi            *100.00    180.00    171.00   451.00    7130.00          2.72
Tamil Nadu        180.00        -        40.00   220.00    6000.00           42
Source: State Directorate of Technical Education
* In girls polytechnics, tuition fee is Rs.50/- p.a.
No tuition fee charged from SC/ST and scholarship holders.



- 43 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
INVIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN_ EDUCATION PROJECT
Criteria for Selection of States Developed by Government of India
1.        For the World Bank-assisted project for development of technicl,..
education, the States are to be selected by applying two sets of criteria.
The first set of criteria (A) will be applied to assess the performance of the
State in the field of polytechnic education on the basis of broad performance
parameters. The second set of criteria (B) would necessiate a degree of
commitment of each State to fulfil specified actions.
2.        Criteria A:
(a)   The capacity of the States to provide the necessary resources during
the project period and to continue at the same level after the
project is completed. This will be judged from the level of
resource provision for technician education in the past:
(b)   The preparedness of the States to undertake the project.  The
State's short term and long term planning strategies, the
preparation they have made for the implementation of programs in the
thrust area of national policy, and the mechanisms created for these
purposes at the Directorate, State Board and at the institution
level would be the basis for assessing such preparedness;
(c)   States whose performance in the development of technician education
have been consistently good would be preferred;
(d)   States which have been highly effective in managing the polytechnic
education system would be selected for participation in the project.
(e)   The extent to which the State has ensured compliance with norms and
standards by the institutions in the State. The institutions should
also have consistently maintained high level of academic standards;
(f)   The degree of interaction with the industry and the linkages
established by the faculty and students;
(g)   The effectiveness of resource allocation and the extent to which
Polytechnics have been able to generate resources;
(h) The backwardness of the State from a socio-economic point of view;
(i)   The Polytechnics in the State should have demonstrated a high level
of capability and innovativeness and should have engaged themselves
in purposeful innovative projects for improving the quality of
technician education;



- 44 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
(j)  The efforts initiated at the State level to implement the national
policy on technical education and the action taken so far within the
polytechnic system; and
(k)  The degree to which the State has been able to plan staff
development in an integrated manner and the extent to which such
plans are implemented for the improvement of teacher performance in
polytechnics.
2.        Criteria B:
Each state participating in the project will have to give a
commitment to fulfil the following conditions;
(a)   provide budgetary allocations for effective maintenance of equipment
and facilities;
(b)  make appropriate budget allocations to meet the matching fund
formula for receipt of Centrai Assistance;
(c)   systematically fill all sanctioned instructor/teacher posts;
(d)   sponsor staff for initial and in-service training;
(e)  undertake curriculum revision, periodically at least once in 5
years;
(f)   gradually and systematically introduce autonomy in Polytechnics;
(g)   introduce flexibility in program structures in a phased manner; and
(h)   introduce examination reforms and maintain academic standards.



- 45 -
ANNEX 8
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Components by State
-WA;        ASSM    HRY         HIMACHALL   *      HASHITRA   PN JAB    TMIL       WST                    ToAL
COMPONENTS                  PRAOESH                        PRADESH INAM                                     BENGAL       DELHI
CePac;tf Espana,on__
No. Diplos Coirsqs                14         2        16          4           40             12        41        14          12          57  IL
Now Post Oplo-m Cour.,*           2          -         1          3           22              -        12         5           5         32 S  I
Now Co-ed Polyt.chn.c,              ISa                           I            I              -         -         2            1          9
Continuin  Educst'on               -         I         I          1           17              6        12         4           S         47
Contres I Ooprtent.t
Com.,nity Polytechnics            6          5         _          _           28              7         -         7           3         ti4
Residentalf Polytechnics           1         I         1          _            2              3         _         1           -           9
- W-ing  for  omen in            1         -         _          _             5                  -               - _                    6
co-ed Polytechnics
Host Is/Re i dences
Pilces for Boys              225         -       825        290          1200           330          -     1725           40       4625
- Places for Woman            2958       240       730        230           600           240      1200       790           20       7006
-Faculty Fiouses               161         -       281         63           200           120        -        161           40       1026
- Staff Quarters               1t1         -        a6         75             _            55        80       401            -   I   814
Qual itY Inwroveeents                                                                                                              I
Modern;ting Labs and             56         8         12          4           43             14        36        30           a        211
Workshops (no. of Poly*.
Staff Development Contere         -                    1                       6              1         1         _           _         10
Staff Oevnlopmept Cello          -           -                    _           22             19         -         1                    42
Computer Centers                 5`         9         16          5           52             12        25        10           8        18i4
Introduction of                   5         7         1           1            7              1       ti)         1           2         35
Flenibility (Multi-Point
Entry * Credit System)
Curriculum Development             1         1         1                      7              1         1         1           1         15
Center.
Learning Resource-                           I         1          1            8                        1         1           1         14
Development Centres
Learning Reource                  3         9        16           a           55                       a5        34           9        185
Utiliiztion Calls
Faculty Development             330       253       392         120         1200           517       1Q53       789         789       6803
(No. of Teachers)
Efficiency SoProvQvnt
F,/g UDi rectorate/
(!y A"itional Staff            27        10        44        18            59             25        67        37          14        301
Industry-Institution
rnteration.
Central/Regional Cells          I         I         1           1           10              1         1         1           1         18
*Polytechnic Cells                6                 1a          5            18            19       5S          34           9        220
AutonoSous Polytechnics           5          - S                  1            7              -        10         2           -         26
Maintenance CellsI 
Control/Reionl Lev              4         1         1           -            3              1         1         1           -         12
PolytI  cnic Level r               (               16   i         d2                      12 6t                34           6        196
f/  Different typ*- of cour-se  (Ny b-re by Stat  will not add to tctall)~



- 46 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of New and Emerging Technology Courses
to be Offered in Project Institutions
Table 1: Diploma Course
__  __   _ ____   __tAP    AS                     1A    HP    MA    P.J    TN   WV         DE     TOTAL
_A~ _  ! t 4 A p *  WO  fr we*r \1 >  en                                          S                                    5
-, -e  Fo
Ag- -  t    Erg Ae'. ng                                                                                 1                1
F *'b                                                                                                   1                1
P.antat o  A Foreet,y Eog.nee  ng                                                                l                       1
Ser cu tu,r                                            2                                                                2
Sugar Techno ogy                                                                   1                                     1
Chencal  Enl _n
Ch ecci Er9  ne  ng (Fort l per)                        1                                                                1
Ch ..cal Ern.rng" -   (Pet-ochaecal)                    1                          1                                     2
Cheecal F.gqneernvg (Plqstc A Polymer)                  1                          2                                    3
Checal  echrology A Erg.reergn                          1                                               1      1        3
Pi.t c Technology                                                    2             2             1             2        7
C,, Eno.neerna
Arc ltctura Aoa eta t.htp                                            2                    2      1      4               9
C-lI Eng-n*r-ng (Constructon)                                                                                  l         1
Civil En-neer-ng  Arch.tecture                                                                   a                      8
Electrcal Electron-cs A Computer
CA  Cl .l   El ectricl cA   Mechanilcal                                                   4                             4
CnOematography a Sound Er,gneering                      1                          4      1                             6
Computer Appl cation                                                                      1                              1
Computer Scence A Eng;ineer.ng                          9            5      1    12       S      8      6      1       46
Electrcal Eigine.-,ng                                                1                                  1               2
Electrical  A Electronics Eng.neerrng                                                            1                       1
Electrical Instrumenta A Control                                                                 1                       1
Electronrcc                                                    1                   S                                    6
Electronics A Communication Engineering                4             6      1             4      5             1       21
Electronic. A Inetrumenta,,on                          7                                         7                     14
Electron,cs A Teleco   un.c t,on                                                   7                    9              16
Indumtr,al Electronics A Instrumeentation                            1                                                  1
Inetrumentat,on A Control                                                                                      1        1
Inetr,-entat.on Technology                                           1      1             1      S      5              11
Med,cal Elertron,cs                                                                2      1                             3
Fashi~- Daagn Teetile A, Leather
Commerc.! Art. A I@ndutreo"        Desirn                            1                                                   1
Dress Deaigning A Carment Manufacturing                                            4                                    4
Fesh,on Technology A Text,le Deeign                                                       1                    1        2
FootMear Technology A Manufacturi-n                     1                          1                                    2
Carnent Fabr-cation Technolooy                                                                                 1         1
Knittang Technology                                                                              1                       1
Tet,. Des vn                                                   1     1             1      3      2                      8
Tentile Processing                                                   1                                                  1
Te t.l  Technology (Spinning   Weaning)                              1                                                  1
Mt e hn l, cal
Aut Eobil- Engineering                                 3                                                36
MKantenance Engring                                                  1                    1                    1        3
Marine Engnering                                                                                 1      1               2
Mechanical Eg,ne-ring                                                2                                         1        3
Mechanical Engg  A Production Technology                                                         4                      4
Mechanical De.gn A Drafting                                                                      1                       1
Metallurgy                                              1                          1                                    2
Min.ng Enginer,ng                                      3
Production Engineering                                                                                  1               1
R*frigeraton A A,rcond,t.oning                                                                   1                       1
MWdi c:  4 HeAl h
aio-MedcTal En;gnerang                                  1                                                                1
Ennironmental Eng,nee-ng A Public Health                                                                       I        1
Pharmacy                                                                    2                           3      1        6
Rt%ecf - Non-Enraineo,ina                                              
rmle-                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                     1
Office Management                                                    1                                  1               2
Packaging Technology                                                 1             1                                    2
Photography                                                                                             1                1
Printing Technology                                                                              1                       1
Secretarial  Prectice                                                              2                                    2
Tranel A Tourise                                                     1                                                   1
T,. ~    ~         ~                   ___                      A 
Totl NuImber of Conres                      36      2    28       6    39    23    47    87         1S      228
Total Number of Typee of Courets            14      2    16       4     13    12    16       14    12        57
Medical Engg.
Micro Procesaor



- 47 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
Table 2: Post Diploma Courses
AP    AS   HA    HP   MA   PU   TN   WB   DE    TOTAL
Electronics I Computer
Advanced Msnufacturing Technology                                                                   1      1
CAD/CAM                                                                        1                           1
Computer Application                                                     1    4          a    9    1      18
Fiber Optics                                                                   1                            1
Information Technclogy                                                         1                           1
Medical Electronics                                                                            1            1
Microprocessor Technology                                          1           1                           2
Mining Electronics                                                                             1           1
Robotics & Automation                                                          1                            1
Satellita Technology                                                           1                            1
Tolematics                                                                     1                           1
TV A Video Technology                                                          1                           1
Mechanical
Automobile Technology & Engineering                                                      1                 1
Foundry Technology                                                             2               1           8
Industrial Engineering                                                         1                    2      2
Offshore Engineering                                                           1                           1
Refrigeration A Airconditioning                                                1                           1
Sea-Bed Mining                                                                 1                           1
Tool & Dle Making                                                                        1                 1
Tool Engineering                                                               1                           1
Others
FT&Technology                                                                           1                 1
Cement Technology                                      2                                                   2
Entrepreneurship Development                                             1                                 1
Environmental Engineering                                                                1                 1
Interior D-eign A Model Making Practice                                                  1                 1
Knitting A Garment Technology                                                            1                 1
Man-Made Textile                                                               1         1                 2
Petro Chemical Engineering                                                                     1    1      2
Printing A Packaging                                                                                1      1
Paper Technology                                       1                       1                           2
Rural Technology                                                         1                                 1
Textile Design                                                                           1                 1
Total Number of Courses                     3      -    1      3   19   -    10   13    6       65
Total Number of Types of Cours-e            2      -    1     S   15   -       8    S    5      32



- 48 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3
Table 3: New Technology and Additional Diploma Courses by State
Total   Total
State                   DW       PDW      DCE      PDCE   Courses  Places 1/
Andra Pradesh           12        -         24       3        39    4,230
Assam                     2       -          -       -         2       180
Haryana                  8        -         14       1        23    1,905
Himachal Pradesh         1        -          4       3         8       120
Maharashtra             14        1         26      19        60    3.185
Punjab                  12        -         13       -        25    2,800
Tamil Nadu              14        1         27      11        63    5,210
West Bengal             11        3         28      11        53    2,530
Delhi                    3        -         10       6        19    1,300
Grand Total    77        5        146       54      272   21,460
DW - Diploma Course/Women
PDW - Post Diploma Course/Women
DCE - Diploma Courses/Coeducational
PDCE- Post Diploma Course, coeducational



- 49 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
New Coeducational Polytechnics by State
AP  AS  HA  HP  KA  PU  TN  we  DE  Total
Number of E-sting Local Polytechn-c  42   7  11   3  48  14  46  S0   6   206
Numb., to be eatablished           I   -   3   1   1   -   -   2   1          9
Number of Now DIOpooa Couraea      3   -  16   3  40   9   4   4   S    84
Number of 0.pl osa St.udnt Plces  450   - 1170  135 2805 1270  360  300  460  6940
Numb., of Now Post 0D,Ioma Cour-so  -   -   1   1  19   -   -   1   2    24
Number of Post DOploma Student
Places                             -   -  30  30  380   -   -  60  30   530
Number of Totel Add.tio"el Student
Places                           450   - 1170  165 3185 1270  360  360  480  7440
Teaching Staff Required           31   -  166  28  82  184  36  23  48   618
Workshops/Laboratorias Required    7   -  e9  16  66  58  12   8   14  270
LIST OF NEW COED POLYTECHNICS AND POLYTECHNICS TO BE STRENGTHENED
Andhra Pradesh
Government Polytechnic, Bellampally
Assam
Haryana
Government Polytechnic, Hissar
Himachal Pradesh
Government Polytechnic, Kangra
Maharashtra
Institute of Petro-Chemical Engineering, Panvel
Government Polytechnic,  Thane
Government Polytechnic, Malvan
Government Polytechnic, Alibag
Government Polytechnic, Miraj
Government Polytechnic, Ahmednagar
Government Polytechnic,  Jalna
Government Polytechnic,  Jintur
Government Polytechnic,  Beed
Government Polytechnic,  OsmanaLad



- 50 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
Maharashtra
Government Polytechnic, Washim
Government Polytechnic, Arvi
Government Polytechnic, Sakoli
Government Polytechnic, Brahmapuri
Government Polytechnic, Gadchiroli
Government Polytechnic, Naskik
West Bengal
Government Polytechnic, Haldia
Government Polytechnic, Rupnarainpur
Government Polytechnic, Raiganj
Government Polytechnic, Contai
Delhi
Government Polytechnic, Papankalan (Dwarka)



- 51 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Multi-Point Entry and Credit System
One of the major problems faced by the Polytechnic System is the variety
of target groups i.e., 10+, 10+ Technical, 10+ Technical Board Certificate,
12+ Science Stream, 12+ Technical Vocational Stream, all of which, in
different proportions join a straight jacket three year program. Except for
the 12+ students who are given exemption from taking some courses, all other
groups are treated alike irrespective of their entry level.
Rapid technological advancement in the different disciplines
necessitates the offering of a wide range of courses of varying durations and
different entry requirements for meeting the diverse manpower needs within and
across disciplines. The New National Policy in Education, therefore rightly
recognises the need for a flexible structure which would allow students to
enter the system at different points depending on their entry level, and take
the combination of courses that they need, thereby facilitating the production
of manpower for a spectrum of technologies and occupations and enhancing the
efficiency of the system.
The Proposed Scheme
The Ten-Year Investment Program includes a scheme for the introduction
of the flexible system to 30 percent of all polytechnics by the year 1994 and
all polytechnics by 1999. The flexible course structure involves students
earning a stipulated number of credits for an award of a Diploma. For example,
135 credits each for a Diploma in civil, mechanical and electrical
engineering. The number of credits per course is dependent on a formula
related to the number of hours of lecture and practical work covered per week.
Award of a Diploma in any of the engineering disciplines requires a minimum
number of prescribed credits under each category of the following: Foundation
courses, Hard Core courses, Soft Core coc--ses, Basic Technology courses,
Applied Technology courses and Diversified courses.
Present Status on the Introduction of Flexible Programs in Polytechnics
At present, the only state which is actively working on the introduction
of the Multipoint and Credit System for Polytechnics is Gujarat. This program
is still in its infancy and will undoubtly face teething problems. However, it
is reasonable to expect the scheme in Gujurat to be followed by the other
states. In the first Technican Education project the eight project States are
planning to introduce the flexible programs in 21 Polytechnics as a start. The
ultimate intention is to spread this to as many Polytechnics in the system as
possible.
Gujarat has developed the details of teaching schemes for diploma
programs in civil, mechanical and electrical engineering, the pre-requisite(s)



- 52 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2
for each course, the examination scheme and the semester during which each
course will be offered. The scheme necessitates the establishment of a
guidance and counselling system (unit) in each polytechnic to enable effective
operation of programs based on the new system. Qualified staff at the unit
will facilitate choice of courses by the students and furnish other
information to teachers, Technical Examination Boards, etc. In addition, each
polytechnic will be provided with marginal additional infrastructure,
investments and staff needed for the introduction of the system.
The flexible system has several advantages over the present rigid three-
year system. 1/ These advantages include the fact that students will
experience greater motivation as they will be able to select individual
courses according to their interest and aptitude and can complete the Diploma
program at a pace commensurate with their achievement level; the system has
the potential to absorb larger student populations in required disciplines;
course selection can be altered to cater to changing and diversifying manpower
needs; and new courses can be introduced to keep students abreast with
developments in industry and emerging technologies.
Polytechnics Introducing the Multi-Point Entry and Credit System
Haryana
Government Polytechnic, Ambala City
Himachal Pradesh
Government Polytechnic, Sundernagar
Maharashtra
Government Polytechnic, Pune
Government Polytechnic, Bombay
Government Polytechnic, Aurangabad
St. Xavier Technical Institute, Bombay
Government Polytechnic, Kolhapur
K.J. Somaiya Polytechnic, Bombay
M.H.S.S. Polytechnic, Bombay
Punjab
Thapar Polytechnic, Patiala
1! SAR, India: Technician Education Project, Report No. 8384-IN of
April 3, 1990 (Annex 6).



- 53 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3
Tamil Nadu
Tamil Nadu Polytechnic. Madurai
Government Polytechnic for Women, Madras
Murugappa Polytechnic, Sathiamoorthy Nagar
P.S.G. Polytechnic, Coinbatore
Sri Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya Polytechnic, Coimbatore
Nachimuthu Polytechnic, Pollachi
Thiagarajar Polytechnic, Salem
Seshasayee Institute of Technology, Tiruchirapalli
Virundhunagar S. Vellaichamy Nadar Polytechnic, Rajapalayam
P.A.C. Ramasamy Raja's Polytechnic, Rajapalayam
Sankar Institute of Polytechnic, Sankar Nagar
Delhi
IVth Boy's Polytechnic, Pusa
Kasturba Polytechnic, Maharani Bagh
Pusa Polytechnica, Pusa
Andhra Pradesh
Government Polytechnic, Hyderabad
J.N. Government Polytechnic, Hyderabad
Government Polytechnica, Vishakhapatnam
Government Polytechnic, Kakinada
Government Polytechnic, Tirupati
Assam
All Polytechnics
West Bengal
R.K. Mission Shilpapith, Belur (autonomous)



- 54 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Continuing Education Centers and Departments by State
AP    AS   HA    HP    MA   PU    TN    WO    DE   Total
Number of Center- to b    Eotebl iahd  -  1    1 .  1 I  I  1  -  7
Additioral Staff Required  -   1    4  2  4  4  3  4  -  22
Number of Depertmenta to be Eatabli-had  -  -    -  -    16    S    12  4  6    42
Additional Staff Required  -   -  -  -  16    15     40  71
Additional Workshops Required  -  -    -  -  16    6  5  -  -    26
Number of Courses to be run per Year  -  8    -  8    80   16    12    10    18   152
Number of Student  to be Trained by 1997  -  -  900   300  8200 2500  80D0  1200  4000 24520
Continuing Education Depertments will be etablished in the following Poly'chnica:
Assam
Assam Engineering Institute, Gauhati
P.O.W Institute, Jorhat
Silcher Polytechnic, Silcher
Haryana
Government Polytechnic, Ambala City
Vaish Technical Institute, Rohtak
Himachal Pradesh
Government Polytechnic, Sundernagar
Maharashtra
Government Polytechnic, Bombay
Government Polytechnic, Pune
Government Polytechnic, Nashik
Government Polytechnic, Aurangabad
Govorrnment Polytechnic, Amaravati
Government Polytechnic, Nagpur
V.J. Technical Institute, Bombay (For Textile and Automobile)
Government College of Pharmacy
Maharashtra Institute of Printing Technology, Pune
Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology
Cusrow Wadia Institute of Technology, Pune
W.C.E., Sangli
Government Polytechnic, Kolhapur
Government Polytechnic, Solapur
Government Polytechnic, Nanded
Government Polytechnic, Jalgaon
Punjab
Government Polytechnic, Amritsar
Government Polytechnic, Batala
Government Polytechnic, Hoshiarpur
Government Institute of Textile Technology
Thapar Polytechnic, Patiala



- 55 -
ANNEX 1 2
Page 2
r'amil Nadu
'dentral Polytechnic, Madras
ramilnadu Polytechnic, Madurai
,overnment Polytechnic, Coimbatore
;overnment Polytechnic, Tiruchi
Lhanthai Periyar E V R Government Polytechnic, Vellore
;overnment Polytechnic, Nagercovil
;overnment Polytechnic, Tuticorin
.overnment Polytechnic, Krishnagiri
;overnment Polytechnic, Aranthangi
;overnment Polytechnic for Women, Madras
;rinivasa Subbaraya Polytechnic, Coimbatore
?.S.G. Polytechnic, Coimbatore
rhiagarajar Polytechnic, Salem
:eshasayee Institute of Technology, Trichy
..S. Vellaichamy Nadar Polytechnic, Virudhunagar
Jachimuthu Institute of Technology
lalivalam Desikar Polytechnic, Nagapattinam
3ankar Polytechnic Institute, Sankara Nagar
tajagopal Polytechnic, Gudiyatham
.N. Polytechnic, Madras
?SG Polytechnic, Coimbatore
4urugappa Polytechnic, Madras
?.A.C. Ramaswamy Raja's Polytechnic, Rajapalyam
).C. Polytechnic, Swakasi
,est Bengal
--ngineering Institute for Junior Executive
'alcutta Technical School
,entral Calcutta Polytechnic
lalpaiguri Polytechnic Institute
)elhi
;.B. Pant Polytechnic
kryabhat Polytechnic
?usa Polytechnic
Institute of Commercial Practice
,overnment Polytechnic, Papankalan



- 56 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
New Community Polytechnics by State
AP    AS    HA   1F    HA    FU    TW    WS    DE    Tot I
Number to be *tabl ihed  6  6  -  -    26  7  -  7  S  54
Instructional Staff Required  6 a   _  -   10  4  -    49    12  201
Workshops/Laboratories Required  -  -  -  -  -  7  -  7  14
Number of Students to be  1800  -  -  -  7500   50  -  1120  1000   12520
Trsined Annually
LIST OF COMMUNITY POLYTECHNICS
Andhra Pradesh
S.V. Government Polytechnic, Tirupathi
Government Polytechnic, Warangal
Government Polytechnic, Viskhapatnam
Government Polytechnic, Nandyal
Government Polytechnic, Vijayawada
Government Polytechnic, Srikakulam
Assam
P.O.W. Institute, Jorhat
Nowgong Polytechnic, Nagaor
Government Polytechnic, Silohar
Dibrugarh Polytechnic, Laboal
Government Polytechnic, Bongaigoan
Maharashtra
Cusrow Wadia Institute of Technology, Pune
Government Polytechnic, Thane
Government Polytechnic, Alibagh
Government Polytechnic, Malvan
Government Polytechnic, Karad
Government Polytechnic, Solapur
Government Polytechnic, Nasik
Government Polytechnic, Ahmednagar
Government Polytechnic, Dhule
Government Polytechnic, Jalna
Government Polytechnic, Osmanabad
Government Polytechnic, Latur
Government Polytechnic, Jintur
Government Polytechnic, Beed
Government Polytechnic, Arvi
Government Polytechnic, Gadchiroli
Government Polytechnic, Sakoli
Governmient Polytechnic, Amravati
Government Polytechnic, Washim



- 5, -
ANNEX 13
Page 2
Maharashtra (cont.)
Agnel Polytechnic, Bombay
Premlilka Vithaldas Polytechnic, Bombay
Institute of Hotel Management & Catering Technology, Pune
Civil & Rural Polytechnic. Gargoti
Government Polytechnic, Yavatmal
Dr. Punjabrao Deshmukh Rural Polytechnic, Amravati
Rural Institute, Wardha
Punjab
Government Polytechnic, Hoshiarpur
Government Polytechnic, Guru Teg Bahadurgarh
Mehar Chand Polytechnic, Jalandhar
Ramgarhia Polytechnic, Phagwara
Guru Nanak Polytechnic, Ludhiana
Thapar Polytechnic, Patiala
The National Institute of Integrated Rural Development & Transfer of
Technology, Palahi
West Bengal
Mushidabad Institute of Technology
Coochbehar Polytechnic
Jagadish Ch. Polytechnic
Hooghly Institute of Technology
Contai Polytechnic
Rajganj Polytechnic
Purulia Polytechnic
Delhi
G.B. Pant Polytechnic
Aryabhat Polytechnic
Women's Polytechnic, Maharani Bagh



- 58 -
ANNEX 14
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
New Women's Polytechnics by State
AP    AS  HA  HP  NA  PU  TN   We  DE   Tots I
Nu.ber of E..ti.g Poiyt.  14  1  3   I    3   2   11   1   2    S8
Number of Now Polyt.A W,nga to
be etablished          2   1    1   -    7   3    -   2   -     16
Number of No. Diploma Course&  6  2  4  1  13  10  -   I   -    47
Nu,b.r of Oiploma Student Pliece  720   180  S60  90    1260   1350  -    600  -  4560
Number of Now Post Oiploma Course.  -  -  -  I  -  -  -  2  -    3
Number of Post Diploma Student
Plces                 -   -   -    30   -        -  80   -    110
Number of Total Additional
Student Plces,        720   180  330  120    1260   13S0  -    680  -  4640
Inst-uctionai Staff Required  64    34  43  8  78    129  -  51  -  407
Work*hop*/L*borFtoi;es Required  16  1  21  4  28  84  -  21  -  178
LIST OF WOMEN'S POLYTECHNICS AND WINGS
Andhra Pradesh
Government Polytechnic for Women, Karimnagar
Government Polytechnic for Women, Srikakalam
Assam
Residential Girls Polytechnic, Golaghat
Haryana
Government Polytechnic for Women, Faridabad
Maharashtra
Government Polytechnic for Women, Latur (Maharathwada)
Government Polytechnic for Women, Yavatmal (Amaravati)
New Women's Wing at Government Polytechnic, Jalgaon
New Women's Wing at Government Polytechnic, Ratnagiri
New Women's Wing at Government Polytechnic, Pune
New Women's Wing at Government Polytechnic, Nagpur
New Women's Wing at Government Polytechnic, Aurangabad
Punjab
Government Polytechnic for Women, Amritsar
Government Polytechnic for Women, Ludhiana
Government Polytechnic for Women, Ropar
West Bengal
Government Women's Polytechnic, Chandernagore Hooghly
Residential Women's Polytechnic, Siliguri



- 59 -
ANNEX 15
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Civil Works Program by Year
1992   1993    1994    1995   1996       1997       Total
A. NEW CONSTRUCTION
l. New Coed Polytechnics                      -       2        3       2         2           9
2. New Laboratories &                 -       -      60       85      70        55        270
Workshop
3. Women's Polytechnics               -      -        2        3       2         2           9
4. Women's Laboratories &             -       -      45       50      60        20        175
Workshop
5. Maintenance Centers                6      6        -        -       -         -          12
B. EXTENSIONS
1. Women's Wings in                   -      3        2        1       -         -          6
Polytechnics
2. Laboratories & Workshops           -   1200      800      400       -         -      2,400
for Existing Courses
3. Classrooms, Labs & Work-         200    600      200      100    100          -      1,200
shops for New Courses
4. Learning Resources                 4      6        4        -       -         -         14
Development Centers
5. Learning Resources                75     80       30        -       -         -        185
User Cells
6. Computer Centers                   -     75       34       32      27        20        188
7. Continuing Ed. Centers             1      2        2        2       -         -          7
8. Continuing Ed. Departmts          10     10       10       10       -         -         40
9. Community Polytechnics            10     20       18        6       -         -         54
10. Hostels for Men 1/                 -    930    1130    1632    530          403      4,625
11. Hostels for Women 1/               -   1330    1630    2630    830          588      7,008
12. Faculty Houses                     -    200      250      300    150        126      1,026
13. Staff Houses                       -    165      225      225    126         73        814
14. Maintenance Cells                 20     30       40       50      30        26        196
1/ Places.



- 60 -
ANNEX 16
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Additional Places Created in Polytechnics by State
Existing Polytechnics
New Tech.Courses   New Polytech.   Cont.Ed.Pro.   Total
Women    Co-ed    Women  Co-ed           Co-ed
Andra Pradesh              660      2,850       720    450           -          4,680
Assam                       -          -        180      -          320           500
Haryana                    450        750       330  1,170           -          2,700
Himachal Pradesh            30         75        -      165          60           330
Maharashtra                540      1,505       720    480        1,600         4,845
Punjab                     585        775    1,350       -       1,500          4,210
Tamil Nadu               1,930      2,800        -      360      1,600          6,690
West Bengal                160      1,554       680    360          840         3,594
Delhi                      240      1,060        -      480      1,100          2,880
Grand Total          4,595    11,369    3,980  3,465         7,020        30,429
* Bank Staff estimates.



- 61 -
ANNEX 17
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJVCT
Teacher Training and Faculty and Staff Development Program
Additional Teachers to be Appointed and Trained by State
New Techn. New Poly. New Poly. Cont.Ed. Comm.
State           Courses      Co-Ed       Women       Program   Poly.   Total
Andhra Pradesh    188           32         64           -         6       290
Assam                -           -         34           1        11        46
Haryana            134         129         33           -         -      296
Himachal Pradesh   17           28          8           2         -        47
Haharashtra        112          37         61          20        52       282
Punjab             199           -        129          15        14      357
Tamil Nadu         350           -         -            9         -      359
West Bengal        122          23         51           4        49       249
New Delhi           60          48          -          40        12      160
Grand Total   1,182          297        372          91     144    2,086



- 62 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Schedule of Deployment of Key Additional Staff
FY
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
TOTAL  1991  1992  1993
BTE
Senior Staff                                     5       3     2
Assistant Level Staff                            4       2     2
TTTIs
Profeesors                                      32       8     8    16
Assistant Professors                            80      20    20    40
Lecturers                                       33       8     8    17



- 63 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2
FY
ANDHRA PRADESH
TOTAL 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
State Project Implementation Unit
Professional Staff                              5      5
Directorate of Technical Education
Professional Staff                              4      4
State Board of Technical Education
Professional Staff                             14     14
Curriculum Development CenterlDepts.
Professional Staff                              4      4
Polytechnics 1/
Principals & Instructional Staff              220     -      20    80    80    40
Womens Polytechnics
Principals & Instructional Staff              64     _      -     32    32    -
Note: FY92 means Indian Fiscal Year (April 1991-March 1992).
1/ Includes Community and Continuing Education Polytechnics.



- 64 -                     ANNEX 18
Page 3
FY
ASSAM
TOTAL  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
State Project Implementation Unit
Professional Staff                              3      3
Directorate of Technical Education
Professional Staff                              3      1      1     1
Curriculum Development Center/Depts.
Professional Staff                              3      1      1     1
Learning Resource Development Center
Professional Staff                              3      -      2     1
Polytechnics   11
Principals & Instructional Staff               24     12    12
Womens Polytechnics
Principals & Instructional Staff              21      -    -       2      8    11    -
Note: FY92 means Indian Fiscal Year (April 1991-March 1992).
1/ Includes Community and Continuing Education Polytechnics.



- 65 -
ANNEX 18
Page 4
Fy
HARYANA
TOTAL  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
State Project Implementation Unit
Professional Staff                              8      4      4
Directorate of Technical Education
Professional Staff                             15      7      8     _
State Board of Technical Education
Professional Staff                             10      5      5     _
Curriculum Development Center/Depts.
Professional Staff                              7      4      3
Learning Resource Development Center
Professional Staff                              4      4
Polytechnics   1/
Principals & Instructional Staff              180     20    30    40    45    45
Womens Polytechnics
Principals & Instructional Staff              30      -    10    10    10       -
Note: FY92 means Indian Fiscal Year (April 1991-March 1992).
1/ Includes Community and Continuing Education Polytechnics.



-66 -
ANNEX 18
Page 5
FY
HIMACHAL PRADESH
TOTAL  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
_
State Project Implementation Unit
Professional Staff                              3      2      1
Directorate of Technical Education
Professional Staff
State Board of Technical Education
Professional Staff                              3      2      1     -
Curriculum Development Center/Depts.
Professional Staff                             12      2      5     3      2
Learning Resource Development Center
Professional Staff
Polytechnics   1/
Principals & Instructional Staff               45      4      8    16    17
Womens Polytechnics
Principals & Instructional Staff               8      4      2     2      -
Note: FY92 means Indian Fiscal Year (April 1991-March 1992).
1/ Includes Community and Continuing Education Polytechnics.



- 67 -
ANNEX 18
Page 6
FY
MAHARASHTRA
TOTAL  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
State Project Implementation Unit
Professional Staff                                       (Staff of the DTE)
Directorate of Technical Education
Professional Staff                             29      8      8     8      5
State Board of Technical Education
Professional Staff                             17      5      5     5      2
Curriculum Development Center/Depts.
Professional Staff                                     Included in SBTE
Learning Resource Development Center
Professional Staff                              4       1     2     1
Polytechnics   1/
Principals & Instructional Staff              282     25    52    52   153
Womens Polytechnics
Principals & Instructional Staff              61     10    20    20    11
Note: FY92 means Indian Fiscal Year (April 1991-March 1992).
1/ Includes Community and Continuing Education Polytechnics.



- 68 -                     A Xi
-68-               ~~~~ANNEX 1B
Page 7
FY
PUNJAB                                             ---
TOTAL  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
State Project Implementation Unit
Professional Staff                              5       5
Directerate of Technical Education
Professional Staff                             12       5     4     3
State Board of Technical Education
Professional Staff                              8      5      3     -      _     _      _
Curriculum Development Center/Depte.
Professional Staff                                         included in the DTE
Learning Resource Development Center
Prcfessional Staff
Polytechnics    11
Principals & Instructional Staff              288    110   110    68
Womens Polytechnics
Principals & Instructional Staff             129     29    50    50
Note: FY92 means Indian Fiscal Year (April 1991-March 1992).
1/  Includes Community and Continuing Education Polytechnics.



- 69 -
ANNEX 18
Page 8
FY
TAMIL NADU
TOTAL 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
State Project Implementation Unit
Professional Staff                             3      3      -     -     -      _     _
Directorate of Technical Education
Professional Staff                             7      7      _     _     _
State Board of Technical Education
Professional Staff                             2      2      -     _     _
Curriculum Development Center/Depts.
Professional Staff                             3      3
.earning Resource Development Center
Professional Staff                             -        Included in CDC
olytechnics    1/
Principals & Instructional Staff             228      60    90    78    -
Jomens Polytechnics
Principals & Instructional Staff             90      20    40    30    -
Note: FY92 means Indian Fiscal Year (April 1991-March 1992).
1/  Includes Community and Continuing Education Polytechnics.



- 70 -
ANNEX 18
Page 9
WEST BENGAL
TOTAL  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
State Project Implementation Unit
Professional Staff                                        Included in the DTE
Directorate of Technical Education
Professional Staff                              27      12     a      4      3
State Board of Technical Education
Professional Staff                               8       3     2      3      -
Curriculum Development Center/Depts.
Professional Staff                               2       -     2
LearninR Resource Development Center
Professional Staff                               -        Included in the DTE
Polytechnics    1/
Principals & Instructional Staff               249      10    30    60    60    60    29
Womens Polytechnics
Principals & Instructional Staff               51       -    10    10    10    10    11
Note: FY92 means Indian Fiscal Year (April 1991-March 1992).
1/ Includes Conmunity and Continuing Education Polytechnics.



- 71 -
ANNEX 18
Pag- 10
FY
DELHI (U.T.)
TOTAL  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
tate Project Implementation Unit
Professional Staff                              2       1     1
lirectorate of Technical Education
Professional Staff                              7      2      2     2      1
tate Board of Technical Education
Professional Staff                              3      2      1     -      -
7urriculum Development Center/Depts.
Professional Staff                              2       1     1
.earning Resource Development Center
Professional Staff                              -             Included in CDC
Polytechnics    1/
Principals & Instructional Staff               48       -    10    10    18    10
Womens Polytechnics
Principals & Instructional Staff
Note: FY92 means Indian Fiscal Year (April 1991-March 1992).
1/ Includes Community and Continuing Education Polytechnics.



- 72 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Staff Development Linked to Career Development
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.          At present there are three major staff-related issues which
confront the Technical Education System. These are: (a) how to attract and
retain the best talent in the Technical Education System by ensuring career
development?; (b) how to train teachers, Heads of Department (HODs),
Principals, Directorate and Ministry officials (and other professionals like
Educational Technologists, Curriculum Specialists, Educational Planners, etc.)
to acquire new knowledge and skills needed to respond to needs in the sector?
and (c) how to make them motivated and productive in the system in which they
work by improving the working environment?
2.          The solution suggested is a Comprehensive Staff Development
Program which has two sub-components. The first is organizing a program to
equip a new recruit from any cadre with the necessary skills from recruitment
to retirement. The second is to improve promotion possibilities, fringe
benefits and working conditions.
B.    TRAINING
3.          The areas in which staff have to be educated and trained are:
(a) Subject-matter updating/upgrading; (b) Industrial Experience and
(c) Professional training. Course curriculum for each cadre would be designed
with the appropriate mix of basic core areas according to the role each staff
is currently performing, or going to perform in future i.e. higher line
functions, staff function, or new responsibilities in the same cadre. While
subject matter upgrading and industrial training methods are well understood.
the focus here would be on professional training.
4.          The training proposed would be conducted in three phases:
(a) Initial, (b) induction and (c) In-service Training.
(a)   Initial Training is intended to equip the new recruit of any cadre
with an organized body of knowledge in the professional field.
During this phase, the staff would be equipped with the scientific
and technological concepts he is expected to use in his practice.
This training could lead to a certificate, diploma, or a degree in
the respective field. These can be offered in t!,e form ot long
term courses (either institution-based, modular or distance
education) entirely through self-study.
(b)   Induction Training:  This is intended to expose the entrant to the
current professional practice. Induction will be closely
supervised to assist the inductee in interpreting current
practices. The inductee will also be exposed to other sub-systems
with whose work he is linked. This phase may extend from six
months to one year;



_ 73 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2
(c)   In-service Training:  This phase would primarily help staff to
acquire new core skills and attitudes needed for practicing the
profession and integrating them with his/her on-the-job functions.
5.          The acquisition of core skills could be acquired through off-the-
job training workshops, production workshops and undertaking micro and macro
on-the-job developmental projects. These projects would promote the transfer
of the acquired knowledge, skills and attitudes and thus the conscious
application in the on-the-job activities.
6.           Staff Appraisal.  All stages of staff development will be
accompanied by Staff Performance Appraisal activities. This would be
developed in more detail when the curriculum for each cadre is formulated. In
the light of the above, the following staff development programs are suggested
for professional development for each cadre.
7.          For Lecturers Educational Technologist  (possessing ME or M.Tech
in Engineering), six months of practical training in industry followed by
initial education in TTTIs for 1/2 year to obtain a M.Tech (Education) Degree
followed by 6 months of induction training, another induction of 6 months to
one year in a Polytechnics, Quality Improvement Center (QIC) and State
Curriculum Development Center (CDC). In-service training would be then
undertaken in Polytechnics to acquire skills in teaching, instructional
material development, testing and evaluation, independent study, student
guidance and counselling and use in practice through developmental projects.
8.    Head of Department HOD/Curriculum Development
The following program is recommended:
Specialist                                  Location
-Initial Education of 6/9 months in Curriculum           TTTI
Design and Development
-Induction in the Polytechnic. State CDC, Student        Polytechnic,
Industrial Training & QIC of the polytechnic            CDC,
(6 months)                                              Industry
-In-service training continuously to acquire skills   QIC/TTTI,
in Curriculum Design, Development, Implementation    Extension and
evaluation linked to staff appraisal                    Center
Polytechnics
9.    For Principal Curriculum Specialist - Sr. Organizational Development
-Initial education of 6/9 months in TTTI for             TTTI
institutional Development Program
-Induction in the Polytechnic, State CDC, DTE,           TTTI Ext.Center
Industrial Training for 6 months                        State CDC/DTE/QIC/
Polytechnic
-In-service supervised training for one year for         Extension Center



74 4
ANNEX 19
Page 3
acquiring skill in perspective plan.ii :;               QIC/Polytechnic
curriculumcoordination management of
innovation
10.   For DTE (Specialist in Education Planning and Management Organizational
Development Expert)
-Initial Education for 6/9 months in Educational         TTTI
Planning and Management and Organizat.onal
Development.
-Induction in STMIS, SCDC, SBTE and TTTI Extension    State DTE/
Center QIC to understand practice being followed by  State CDC/
each organization.                                      STMIS/QIC
-Inservice training to acquire skills in                 STMIS, State
futuristic planning for qualitative expansion,          CDC, TTTI
qualitative improvement of State level,                 Extn. Center
educational planning, development,                      QIC, DTE
i,.,lemeatation and evaluation of
educational program.
11.   For Department of Education (DOE)
-Initial Education for 6/9 months                        TTTI
in Educational Planning and Management,
Educational Statistic Educational
Administration, Educational Costing.
-Induction in STMIS, SDTE, other                         MOF
Ministry of Finance, Labor                              MOGE/L
DTE & MOE
-Inqervice training for acquiring                        TTTI/STMIS/SCDC
skills in Educational administration,
Monitoring/Executing Educational programs               SDTE/MOE(T)
12.         It should be noted that all the senior members would undergo at
least 4-6 months of exposure in a foreign country to study state-of-the-art in
the profession in which each is being trained.
C.    Career Development
13.         Career development will be ensured by providing opportunities for
advancement after ezery interval of 8 to 10 years, so that a person entering
the teaching profession will earn at least three promotion in his career. At
each level of promotion ir. the hierarchy, he/she will be prepared for the new
post by requiring the staff to undergo training programs (paras 2-12) The
staff member's level of performance will be systematically appraised.
4.          Where the system is changing fast, there will always be a need for
two types of functionaries at each level to preform i.e) line function and
staff functions. A Line function is needed to execute the programs as per



Page 4
established procedures. But since the procedures change frequently,
assistance from staff, whose role will be to solve problems required. In the
changed situation would be required. This fact may be used to provide
promotional avenues for the staff. Each State will have to think of creating
such staff positions at each level of hierarchy. In order that the best
performer will be rewarded, there will be continuous staff performance
appraisal coupled with program and institutional evaluation as already
suggested by the Dogra Commission and accepted by the Ministry of Human
Resources Development (MHRD).
D.    Strategy for Implementation.
15.          This scheme will require the establishment of Staff Development
Cells in all the polytechnics in the State to facilitate systematic staff
development activities. It will also require setting up of Staff Development
Cell in the Directorates of Technical Education in order to plan, implement
and monitor staff development programs for Polytechnic faculty, Principals and
senior officials on the basis of their career development needs.
16.          The following description relate to the role of the Staff
Development Cells in Polytechnics. They should:
(a)   maintain Personnel Information System on all the members of the
faculty in the Polytechnic including qual.ifications, experience,
staff development programs attended, staff development needs as
identified by staff appraisals,
(b)   update the information about staff development needs on a regular
basis;
(c)   arranging for annual staff appraisals and identify the  training
needs of faculty.
(d)   identify the training needs of personnel involved in the
implementation of different schemes;
(e)   prepare Career Development Plans for faculty in collaboration with
the Staff Development Cells at the State Directorate;
(f)   monitoring the redeployment of trained faculty in the Polytechnics
to enable effective utilization of the competencies gained them;
and
(g)   interacting training establishments to ensure implementation of
training programs.
17.          Staff Development Cells at the Directorate of Technical Education
will carry out the following activities:
(a)   elicit information on Staff Development needs for individual
polytechnics on a continuing basis and maintain an
information system on the Polytechnic faculty, Prir:ipals, Heads
of Departments and senior officials with regard to iaeir career
development needs.



- 76 -
ANNEX 19
Page 5
(b)   draw uo plans for faculty staff development programs in which
personnel from the Technician Education System will be deputed
annually based on requirements as identified by Staff Development
cells of Polytechnics.
(c)   plan for the Staff Development of the officers of the Directorate
and Board of Technical Education in specialized areas like
Industrial Liaison, educational management, project management and
evaluation, management of innovations, use of computers, staff
appraisals, institution evaluation etc., to be carried out within
the country or abroad.
(d)   maintain information about possible training places in large and
medium industries in specialized areas, where polytechnic faculty
can be deputed for training.
(e)   maintain information about laboratories, industries, training
establishments within the country or abroad for faculty training
in emerging technology areas.
(f)   interact with the Technical Teacher's Training Institute for
deputing teachers to long-term programs like Master's Degree in
Technical Education, Induction Programs for new teachers and need
based industrial training.
(g)   arranging wiLh the Technical Teachers' Training Institute, for
training programs in special areas like Resource (Media)
Development, Evaluation, Educational Research, etc., to meet the
needs of schemes under the World Bank project.
(h)   liaise with State Engineering Colleges and Universities and
industry for deputing teachers to undergo higher education
programs in Engineering!Technology/Science/Humanities;
(i)   liaise with TTTI and National Project Implementation Unit of the
project for identifying training/study visit locations abroad for
senior faculty and officials of the State Directorate/Board, who
are responsible for the implementation of the project.
(j)   monitor the implementation of staff development programs conducted
at different locations and to undertake studies to evaluate
effectiveness of the staff development programs.
3.         Further action by the DTE/MOE.  The Directorate of Technical
lucation will ensure that all vacant faculty positions are filled up as well
v the new positions created under various schemes and 102 additional faculty
* provided as a training reserve. This is done in order to enable faculty of
;lytechnics to undergo different training programs mentioned in the earlier
actions.
In addition, teachers will be deputed for training programs
pecific to different schemes under the project. Fellowships will be provided
ar study visits for senior faculty and officials of the DTEs and BTEs every
ear during the project period, to study specific aspects of management of



- 7 7 -ANNEX 19
Page 6
technician education, in other countries. Similar staff development programs
for supporting staff will be designed and implemented. Linkages will be
established with industrial establishments and training organizations to
enable staff development activity. The Staff Development Cell at the
Directorate will evolve suitable procedures for exchange of information
amongst polytechnics, Directorate, Board of Technical Educ&tion, AICTE and
other agencies involved in the Staff Development Programs. The activity of
the Staff Development Cells at the Directorate and the Polytechnics and the
Staff Development programs will be revised annually to assess effectiveness
and make refinements.



- 78 -
ANNEX 20
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Industry.-Xnstitute Interaction by State
AP  Assam Haryana  HP  Maharashtra Punjab TN    WB   DE  Total
No. of Polytechnics    66      8     16     4      61      21      66    30    8    249
New Coed Polytechnics   1      -      3     1       1        -      -     2    1       9
New Women's Poly-       2      1      1     -       7       3       -     2    -      18
technics & Wings
No. of Industry-       68      9     16     5      16       19     80    30    9    192
Institute (III) Celle
in Polytechnics
No. of III Cells at     -      -      -     -       10       -      -     -    -      10
Regional Levels in
Institutions
No. of III Cells        1      1      1     1       1        1      1     1    1       9
at DTEs
LIST OF POLYTECHNICS WITH INDUSTRY-INSTITUTE-INTERACTION CELLS
Andhra Pradesh
Govt. Polytechnic, Hyderabad
J. N. Polytechnic, Hyderabad
Andhra Polytechnic, Kakinada
Govt. Polytechnic, Viskhapatnam
Govt. Polytechnic, Mahaboobnagar
S. V. Govt. Polytechnic, Tirupathi
Govt. Polytechnic, Vijayawada
Govt. Polytechnic, Warangal
Govt. Polytechnic, Proddatur
Govt. Polytechnic, Nizamabad
Govt. Polytechnic, Anantapur
M. B. T. S. Govt. Polytechnic, Guntur
Govt. Polytechnic, Nallore
E. S. C. Govt. Polytechnic, Nandyal
Govt. Polytechnic, Srikakulam
Govt. Polytechnic, Gudur
Govt. Polytechnic, Kothagudam



- 79 -
ANNEX 20
Page 2
K. D. R. Govt. Polytechnic, Wapparthy
Govt. Polytechnic, Vizianagaram
Govt. Institute of Printing Technology, oecunderabad
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Kakinada
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Guntur
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Warangal
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Bheemunipatnam
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Nellore
Govt. Polytechnic, Adilabad
Govt. Model Residential Polytechnic, Bhadrachalam
D. A. Government Polytechnic, Ongole
Govt. Institute of Electronics, Secunderabad
S. G. M. Govt. Polytechnic, Vanasthalipuram
Govt. Model residential Polytechnic, Padaru
Govt. Institute of Pharmacy, Kurnool
Smt. Durgbhai Deshmuk, Govt. Women's Technical Training Institute, Hyderabad
Govt. Institute of Textile Technology, Guntur
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Cuddapah
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Palamaneru
Govt. Polytechnic for Women Nizamabad
Govt. Institute of Advanced Technician Courses, Fyderabad
Govt. Institute of Advanced Technician Courses, Viskhapatnam
Govt. Institute of Advanced Technician Courses, Tirupathi
Q. Q. Govt. Polytechnic, Old City, Hyderabad
Govt. Polytechnic, Narsipatnam
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Ethamukhala
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Hindupur
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Medak
Govt. Model Residential Polytechnic, Srisailam
Govt. Model Residential Polytechnic, Rajahmundry
Govt. Model Residential Polytechnic, Madanapally
Govt. Institute of Leather Technology, Hyderabad
Govt. Institute of Ceramic Technology, Gudur
Govt. Polytechnic, Nalgonda
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Suryapet
Govt. Model Residential Polytechnic, Gajwel
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Nandigama
Govt. Polytechnic, Zaheerabad
Govt, Polytechnic, Sirsilla
Assam
Assam Engineering Institute, Guwahati
Nowgong Polytechnic, Nagaon
Prince of Wales Institute, Jorhat
Dibrugarh Polytechnic, Lahoal
Silchar Polytechnic, Silchar
Bongaigaon Polytechnic, Bongaigaon
Assam Textile Institute Guwahati
Girls Polytechnic, Guwahati



- 80 -
ANNEX 20
Page 3
lary_ana
;ovt. Polytechnic, Ambala City
govt. Polytechnic, Jhajjar
;ovt. Polytechnic, Sirsa
iarvana Polytechnic, Nilokheri
,ovt. Institute of Engineering, Sonepat
;ovt. Institute of Management and Pharmacy, Adampur
3ovt. Polytechnic for Women, Ambala City
govt. Polytechnic, Uttawap, Faridabad
'. M. C. A. Institute of Engineering, Faridabad
laish Technical Institute, Rohtak
2hhotu Ram Polytechnic. Rohtak
(anya Gurukul Women's Polytechnic, Khanpur Kalan
3eth Jai Parkash Polytechnic, Damla, Yamunanagar
iimachal Pradesh
;ovt. Polytechnic, Sundernagar
;ovt. Polytechnic, Hamirpur
;ovt. Polytechnic, Rohroo
;ovt. Polytechnic, Kangra
.ovt. Polytechnic for Women, Kandaghat
1aharashtra
,ovt. Polytechnic, Bo'rbay
;ovt. Polytechnic Pune
;ovt. Polytechnic, Aurangabad
;ovt. Polytechnic, Amravati
.ovt. Polytechnic, Nagpur
.ovt. Polytechnic, Nashik
;usrow Wadia Institute of Technology, Pune
-ovt. Polytechnic, Karad
3hri Bhagubhai Mafatlal Polytechnic, Bombay
Enstitute of Hotel Management & Catering, Pune
'. J. Technical Institute, Bombay
i. H. Saboo Siddik Polytechnic, Bombay
K. J. Somaiya Polytechnic, Bombay
kgnel Junior Technical College, Bombay
;ovt. Polytechnic, Ratnagiri
3ovt. Polytechnic Solapur
.ovt. Polytechnic, Kolhapur
;alchand College of Engineering, Vishrambaug Sangli
3ovt. Polytechnic for Distance Learning, Pune
3ovt. Polytechnic, Latur
-ovt. Polytechnic, Nanded
3ovt. Polytechnic, Khamgaon
3ovt. Polytechnic, Yavatmal
,ovt. Polytechnic, Jalgaon
.ovt. Polytechnic, Dhule



- 81 -
ANNEX 20
Page 4
Civil & Rural Engineering Polytechnic, Wardha
Panjanbrao Deshmuk Polytechnic, Amravati
Institute of Civil & Rural Engineering, Gargoti
Punjab
Govt. Polytechnic, Amritsar
Govt. Polytechnic, Batala
Govt. Polytechnic, Hoshiarpur
Govt. Polytechnic, G. T. B. Garh
Govt. Polytechnic, Bathinda
G. N. E .C. Ludhiana
R. Polytechnic, Phagwara
M. C. Polytechnic, Jalandhar
Thapar Polytechnic, Patiala
Textile Institute, Amritsar
Garnent Tech. Institute, Amritsar
Training Institute, Jalandhar
Women's Polytechnic, Jalandhar
Textile & Knitting Institute, Ludhiana
Women's Polytechnic, Patiala
Govt. Polytechnic, Ferozpur
Govt Polytechnic for Women, Amrrtsar
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Ludhiana
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Ropar
Tamil Nadu
Central Polytechnic, Madras
Govt. Polytechnic, Krishnagiri
Govt. Polytechnic. Coimbatore
Govt. Polytechnic, Tirucharapally
Govt. Polytechnic, Madurai
Algappa Polytechnic, Karaikuddi
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Coimbatore
Bharthiar Centenary Memorial Women's Polytechnic, Ettayapuram
Srinivasa Subbaraya Polytechnic, Puttur
Govt. Polytechnic for women, Madras
C. N. Polytechnic, Madras
Ramakrishna Mission Technical Institute, Madras
Murugappa Polytechnic, Sathya Murthy Nagar
C. M. Kothari TechnologicaL Institute, Chembarapakkam
Rajagopal Polytechnic, Gudiyatham
Muthiah Polytechnic, Annamalai Nagar
P. S. G. Polytechnic, Coimbatore
C. I. T. Polytechnic, Coimbatore
G. R. G. Polytechnic for Women, Coimbatore
Seshasayee Institute of Technology, Tiruchirapalli
Periyar Centenary Girls Polytechnic, Vallam
Padmabushan N. Ramasauny Memorial Girls Polytechnic, Trichy
A. D. J. Dharmambal Women's Polytechnic, Nagapattnam



- 82 -
ANNEX 20
Page 5
Arulmigu Palaniandavar Polytechnic for Women, Palani
Ayya Nadar Jannaki Amal Women's Polytechnic, Sivakasi
Annamralai Polytechnic, Chettinad
Virudhunagar S. Vellaichamy Nadar Polytechnic, Virudhunagar
Arasan Ganesan Polytechnic, Sivakasi
P. A. C. Ramaswami Raja's Polytechnic, Rajapalayam
Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Madurai
West Bengal
A. P. C. Ray Polytechnic, Calcutta
Jnan Ch. Gosh Polytechnic, Calcutta
North Calcutta Polytechnic, Calcutta
Central Calcutta Polytechnic, Calcutta
Women's Polytechnic, Calcutta
Birla Institute of Technology, Calcutta
The Regional Institute of Printing Technology, Calcutta
Engineering Institute for Junior Executives, Howrah
Hooghly Institute of Technology, Hooghly
Jagadish Ch. Polytechnic
Asansol Polytechnic, Burdwan
Murshidabad Institute of Technology, Berhampore
I. C. V. Polytechnic, Jhargram, Midnapore
Sree Ramakrishna Silpavidyapeeth Polytechnic, Suri, Birbhum
K. G. Engineering Institute, Vishnupur, Bankura
M. B. C. Institute of Engineering & Technology, Burdwan
B. P. C. Institute of Technology, Krishnagar
Jalpaiguri Polytechnic Institute
Malda Polytechnic
Purulia Polytechnic
Kanyapur Polytechnic, Asansol
Coochbehar Polytechnic, Cooch Behar
Darjeeling Polytechnic, Kurseong
Raiganj Polytechnic
Contai Polytechnic
Ramakrishna Mission Shilpamandira, Belur
Ramakrishna Mission Shilpapitha, Belgharia
Calcutta Technical School
Bendel Survey Institute
Mining Institute, Raniganj
Delhi
G. B. Pant Polytechnic, Okhla, New Delhi
Aryabhat Polytechnic, G. T. Karnal Road, Delhi
Pusa Polytechnic, Pusa, New Delhi
IVth Boy's Polytechnic, Pusa, New Delhi
Women's Polytechnic, Maharani Bagh, New Delhi
Kasturba Polytechnic, Maharani Bagh, New Delhi
College of Pharmacy, Pushp Vihar, Sector 3 Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, New Delhi
Institute of Commercial Practice, Patparganj Road, Delhi
Govt. Polytechnic, Papankalan, Dwarkapuri, Delhi



- 83 -
ANNEX 21
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Capacity Building
A. Summary of Technical Assistance
Local         Foreign         Local            Total
State                    Consultants   Fellowships   Fellowships   Staff Months
Assam                       152              38            3,468            3,658
Andhra Pradesh              100              50            1,090            1,240
Haryana                      80              60            1,050            1,050
Himachal Pradesh             92              21              634              747
Maharashtra                 816             100            4,000            4,916
Punjab                       50              84            2,500            2,634
Tamil Nadu                   55             220            3,101            3,376
West Bengal                 380              80            3,000            3,460
Delhi                       100              25            3,300            3,425
Total       1825            678           22,143           24,646
B. Local Consultants
Staff Months
State                    1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       Total
Assam                     30         30         35         40         17        152
Andhra Pradesh            10         10         80          -          -        100
Haryana                   15         40         25          -          -         80
Himachal Pradesh           4          9         27         26         26         92
Maharashtra              160        164        164        164        164        816
Punjab                    10         10         10         10         10         50
Tamil Nadu                10         10         12         11         12         55
West Bengal               60         70         75         75        100        380
New Delhi                 20         20         20         20         20        100
Total    319         363       448        346        349       1825



- 84 -
ANNEX 21
Page 2
C. Foreign Fellowships
Staff Months
State                    1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       Total
Assam                      7         71         11          9          -         38
Andhra Pradesh            10         10         10         10         10         so
Haryana                   10         15         15         10         10         60
Himachal Pradesh           -          2          6          7          6         21
Maharashtra               20         20         20         20         20        100
Punjab                    20         24         24         16          -         84
Tamil Nadu                20         50         50         50         50        220
West Bengal               10         10         20         20         20         80
New Delhi                  5          5          5          5          5         25
Total    102        147        161        147        121        678
D. Local Fellowships
Staff Months
State                    1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       Total
Assam                     300        800        800        780        788       3,468
Andhra Pradesh            100        300        300        300         90       1,090
Haryana                   210        250        250        250         90       1,050
Himachal Pradesh           81        108        143        152        150         634
Maharashtra               800        800        800        800        800       4,000
Punjab                    500        500        500        500        500       2,500
Tamil Nadu                620        620        620        620        621       3,101
West Bengal               600        600        600        600        600       3,000
New Delhi                 660        660        660        660        660       3,300
Total   3,871      4,638      4,673      4,662      4,299      22,143



- 65-
ANNEX 22
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN  EDUCATION  PROJECT
Project Costs
Table ls SUMHARY COSTS BY COMPONENTS AND TIME
(Ris '000)
Is" Costs                                             Tota
_ -   -   -- - - - - - - - -   -    ------- -     -------------------     -------.  - ----- - ---------  .......................... _  .   .     ..   .
91/92     92/93       93/94      94/95       95/96       96/97      97/90         RS     (US$ '000)
mfl    ...as. riz                -,nsnmt  $s,fst nh:zr-gs: ;=::=====:_=.:z:=_=
A. CWACITY EIANSION
PRIOWM  IN 10 TECILIE5                             950790.8  1284624.7  147.984.3  123.139.2   93.600.2   85t877.3   03,203.6   758,228.2  42.123.8
NEV COEDUETIN. PLYTECINICS                         32.329.8   60.9t9.9   846523.4   87.275.2   72t565.6   62t861.7   53,740.9   454.286.3  25*238.1
PROOMS IN COTIUING EATION                          19692.5   25t447.7   2MU133.6   266564.6   22t868.1    22,512.4   21*209.2   167,508.1   9,306.0
COINITY POLYTECHICS                                14.955.2   27t026.5   32,442.0   23o338,1   186571.5   170717.4   159626.5   1494680.2   8.315.6
WmIl S POLYTECHIICS                                484113.0  102.448.6  133*964.0  110*029.3   84.203.3   670722.7   58,939.9   605,420.7  33.6.34.5
STINT WMD FAALTY NU11NG                            63,246.1  132*064.0  171.031.2  130,269.8   82s586.7   63*486.5   48*583.4   691,267.8  38.403.8
Sub-Total CAPACITY EVMIOS1N                          274,130.4  4764601.3  599M078.4  5004616.2  3749403.5  320M178.0  281*383.5  2.826.391.3  1579021.7
D. GIMLITY IIWIR   T
TEADiER TRAINING                                   45,233.4   549764.6   596533.5   46.443.2   36*554.7   33.826.7   30*889.6   307*245.8  17.069.2
CUIRICULUI KWELOWIE                                 4.803.E    6.869.5    8.411,0    7.386.6    Lv484.2    6.574.5    6*369.4    46,899.0   2M6055
EUJIPIINT AID FACL.TY IFRMT  PRl4F                131.641.4  3514650.3  497t095.1  363.993.?  236u797.8  217t818.6  199.595.7  1.9908592.0  111.032.9
AINTEIWEM CELLS                                    11252.4   204604.1   26o808.5   214037.1   17t800.5   18M187.9   18F271.5   1339962.0   7.442.3
Sub-Totl OLITY IIOVEIWIT                             192931.0  433.8.5  591l848.1  438.860,0  297,637.3  276.407.7  255*126.2  29486.698.7  138,149.9
C. EFFICIENCIY IlROWEi
STREN1THE1NIN STATE DIRECTWATE OF TECN. EUC.       30*646.9   50.501.8   64.130.8   54t442.4   41*950.0   40*686.7   38.070.7   320*429.3  17.801.6
OWITNG6 AUTOW     M PLmYTEOIICS                     2,701.1    4.114.7    4*926.3    4,084.7    3#943.8    3.923.1    3*615.4    27,309.2   19517.2
PRITING INDUSTRY - INTITUTE INTECTION              16.916.7   29,394.3   35.373.7   27*414.2   24,626.3   254851.6   25515.6   1859092.5  &,)282.9
Sub-Totl EFFICIENCY IRlWEIT                           504264.8   84,010.8  104,430.9   85.941.3   70,520.1   70,461.3   67.201.8   532,831.0  29.601.7
Total  ASELINE COSTS                                  517*326.2  994,500.6 129357.4 It025.417.5  742*560.9  667.047.0  603.711.4  5.845.921.0  324,773.4
Piwaical Contudncies                                 45*650.1   92n004.2   120.502.5   920755.8   63p695.2   550733.4   49,442.6   5190783.9  289876.9
Price ConAti'urin                                    27.632.1  151*929.4  3194347.4  345,997.0  317.195.7  348*856.7  375,548.2  1.886*506.4   8,459.4
Total PRECT COSTS                                     590606.4 1#2384342 10735.207.3 1.464.170.3 1l123.451.8 1071t637.0 1.0280702.3 8.252v211.3 362t109.6
W-- S       -----f--       ..:: . srs=firftfl Ss,ttnS--i rant:= fln= =*tft=     t:s::t:= ==::==S:::
Tas                                                  164906.6   394656.8   56*582.0   45.220.5   30*743.6   272921.7   25,956.7   242,988.0  10*719.9
Fovrion Excharde                                    147.161.7  353.377.9  509*612.0  411.143.9  280,841.7  255,265.0  237.061.3  2*194.463.5  960714.8
Duebev 18, 9 IM 15:48



- 86 -
ANNEX 22
Page 2
Table  2:   SUMMARY COSTS  BY  CATEGORIES  OF EXPENDITURE  AND  TIME
Ba,e Costs
RS Million)                               Foreisn Exchange
91/92  92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   9'/97   97/SS  Total              %     AourIt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL V9RKS                        203.1   440.2   570.2   404.2   237.0 11.2   139.0 2t174.9    25.8               561.1
B. FURNITURE                            13.1    41.3    55.2'  40.2    24.4    17.2    13.3   209.3    15.5              32.6
C. VEHICLES                             16.0    21.1    20.5    12.         5.5      3.0      2.2    81.4    51.0        41.5
D. EQUIPMENT                          116.2   282.2   391.0   296-3   106.9   165.7   151.6 1,591,2    41.0             652.2
E. LOCAL FELLOWSHIPS                     9.4    11.0    12.0    11.4    11.1    10.2          8.7    73.8      0.0        0.0
F. FOREIGN FELLOWSHIPS                   5.3     6.5      8.0      8.4      B.1      7.8      7.4    51.5    90.4        46.5
0. LOCAL CONSULTANT                      3.9     5.1      5.2      3.3      3.9      3.3      2..1    27.3     0.0        0.0
H. FOREIGN CONSULTANT                    0.1     0.4      0.7      0.6      0.2      0.1      0.1      2.2    70.9         1.5
;. BOOKS                               11.6    17.0    19.0    15.2         9.2      7.1     5.9    85.7    20.7         17.7
J. LOCAL TRAINING                       10.3     5.7      4.3      3.5      3.6      2.5      1.5    31.4      0.0        0.0
K. SCHOLARSHIPS                          0.9      1.0     1.0      1.1      0.9      0.9      0.S      6.7    Oe         0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                    394.9   031.4 1,000.7   797.5   490.8   399.0  3"2,7 4t375.9    71.2   1,353.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES OF ADDITIONAL STAFF    90.8   113.3   140,5   165.9   182.4   193.6   197.0 1,096,5               0.0        0.0
B. CONSUMABLE MATERIALS               18.7    27.5    36.5    33.0    41.0    43.2    44.0   248.9    20.7              51.5
C. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE          12.9    17.2    21.7    24.0    20.5    30.4    30.0   164.6            5.2        8.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     122.4   163.1   206,6   227.9   251.0   267.2   271.0 16510.0            4.0       60.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                       517.3   994.5 1?295.4 1,025.4   742.6  u'67.0   603.7 5,345.9    24.2   1.413.2
Phystcal Contingencies                   45.7    92.0   120.5    2.8    63.7    55.7    49.4   519.0    26.7             133.9
Price Contingencies                      27.6   151.?   319.3   346.0   '17.2   343.9   375.5 1,806.5    '4.0            642.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                        590.6 1,230.4 1,735.2 1#464.2 11123.5 1,071.' 1,020.7 0,252.2    26.6   2.194.5
===== ==:=:_=  ===_=== :======= ==   . ==== . ===:=== ====_: ,=2=_==  ====== ===:==_===
Taxes                                    16.9    39.7    56.6    45.2    30.7    27.9    26.0   243.0           0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                        147.2   353.4   509.6   411.1   280.8   255.3   237.1 2,194.5           0.0        0.0
lDeceaber 18, 1990 15:48



AXmE 22
Table  3,  SU4VAAY  CoMT   AY  WaQOUMI  AND  CAftW1198 Of LIPIDIOTIUM
wA3in WaNI&                                                     DA170 1188383                               47FICI(W  hUfEEm
917tLwla                                 aIIPD            4T8837888                     9M10048                PhImie,
In3      PUM        in                            m                               FAMLt2                       Van9          WAT1U      28888t   -           CoutowlI4
9IMAIN 131  CU3WIW(K  CWIUTIIi   CUST                    VW   I    FW.LTY TEAM    ONIW.L     IEWAIT                 110 U   I(ECIU8TE O I 8 flt IT  IUI3TUT(                       ....   .
11T0ocaits  PFtItOICS   IMATISN  PtLTTUU3             OL ,  Eitaics WAIN   Misols EK.N4u               PWA6M         c.Ls        IEC4. E .    CLtTIWIC$ 1e7tIT28   toaul                 AW ,
A. civil  MS                                  141.5         397.2         14.9         LaO0         327.7   594,8      32.           Sa6         679.3        it-8             6,3.0         2. 2        27.7  2,174.9  I' 0   23'
4. PURW 22u                                    22.3           9.9          3.8          4,1          3 3.3    36.7     (5.3          2.9          79.2         2,0             12.4          3.3         6.3    M94.    CC    2:1.
C   fmlc(i$                                    1.0           4.9         0.3           7.2          3.6        -       0.7         '.4          2M.           2.8            (2.9           0.3        20.0     83.4  3, C       .2
4. 88IPO8T                                   292.2          (08.9        1I.2         20.9         104.2    27.9      39.9          7.3         909.0        L2.4             33.3          3.5         1'.4  2.S43.2          1.
1. tOA  F4t3.j.I40                              2.8            (.4         0.0          4..           (.2              37.9          3,3           I3.7         0,2             .2.           3.2         3.4     "3.83
F. F9144 FEua25                                 1.4            1.6         O.8          4. 7          0.4       -      26.0          0.9           8.0                          4.9          0.8          2.0    53.5               a
0. LOC   COIUTT                                 2.9            2.0         1.1          5.4           9.5               (.5          2.2           I.3         0.2              2.9          3.0          3.4     2'.J    8       ;.4
M. 011388 1.363T88                              0.9            0.4                                                      0.2                                                                     -          .6      2.2           c I
3. MOK                                         (2.3 I          .7         5,3           (.0          4.5               23.2          (.3         '4.4          9.2              4.2          0.3         2.0     85.7  CC.        .6
J. LOrk  20(N4188                                 .             .5         135                        8.4              75.9         0.1            1.0         0.2              0.2                       0.2     11.4. 
4,  SC(D.~~~~~~~~~5I4lP0      -              .           -          4~~~~~~... . 3... ----   -   -    ...   .     . .........    ---- -------    . ........  ........             ----     ---    7 --
2a.12 188(210  COSTS                             484.5         3-4j.?        47, 7        96.7        47Y.  649.4        222.3        22.3        (.756.0        29.2            130.4         12.3         72,0  4,335. 9    4 *
It. 44aM47 CUTS
A. S88MIES OF 8.1llO. (IWO                   233.0          42.9        102.0         31.6         1133,    15.2      59.0         18.4         (37.2        41.7            142.9          9.1        85.5  1,096.5   SC      0 4.5
I, C04RWILf ,dEtOAL.S                         20.4           17.9        10.4         17.1           8,3     1.6      33.9          4,2          57.4        38,2             22.3          3.2         32.4    248.9  :6C    24 9
E. W18421O8Mg PI4ITEOIMt                      13.2            7.4         7.3          4,1          (0.4     4.9      1.0           (.7          48.0        13.8             24.0          2. 7        25.2    (64,4 C 
Total MECII7  COSS                               273.7         132.(        1(9.6         04.9         132,2    43.8      85.0         24.3         242.6       304,3            389.8         35,0       32,0  1,5(0.0            9.V  2
tota4l 44302.1  COSt$                              30. 2        454.3       167.5         149,7         495.4   692.2     187.2         40.9       6,9-0.8.       (24.0            29. 4        27.3        185.1  50445.9   3     529e
Ph5.aol, C40t604SC64s                           (3.9           40. 7       31.4          ((.8         54.7    67.4      23.2          3.5         oti.           (1.3           24.4          2 0         (3.8    529,8   0.1.    0.1.
P*wf Coat,imcKie                               236.3          159.3        58. 2        44.0         294.6   209,4      99.8         IS.0         04742        43.4             90.5          4.6        58.03885          .    33
total FEO,CT COSTS                              (.038.4         624.2        239.6        207.5         054,9   966.2     421.3        62.4        2,1666.5       348.7           443.4         37.9       256.9  4,352,    S..'  6-f.
Tun                                             33.0           39.3         3,2          4,0          22.8    27,3       7.9          2.3         186.2         3 3              7.8          0.6         4.2    243.0   ' 3      :.
Fooeim  OEVwo.                                 266.4          173.6        24 3         46.4         214.5   257.2      90,5         3  06        949.2        32.              72.2          0.7         37.9  2,194.5   09-   296.3
O0rome 18, (99 15C48



- SB -
ANNEX 23
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Table li FINANCING PLAN BY COMPONENT
(US$ '000)
INTERNATIOAL
DEVELXPEN1                     6WRNIIT OF
ASSOCIATION    STATE  OVERNT       INDIA         Total
- - ---*------                            Loca1 (Excl.  utiu E
Aeo  t   Z       Aont   Z    AImoet  2    bowt    I   For, Exch.    Tax")               Tox"
:zSxz:=-  ::_S    =fl13fl3  "S.  nazen, S .    5335*5*3 fiSt-   *SeS#sz*f  v`VXsasn**J1 man`
A. CAPACITY EXPM(SION
PROGRAMS IN NEW TECHNOLO6IES                      36.532.6 7n.3    7.205.4  15.4  2.909.8  6.2  46.647.0 12.9   11,850.3        33S420.0  Id7.6
NEU CD;CATlONAL POLYTCC26IICS                     21,226.5 74.9    3,035.7  10.7  4#074.6 14.4  289336.8  7.8    7,529.9        19,970.0    83.1
PRtMS IN CONTINUING EDUCATION                      6.613.2 66.0    2.842.6 28.4    560.6  5.6  10,016.5  2.8    1,176.6          8.696.3    143,6
CONAITY POLYTECIWICS                               7,90.1 79.P%  1,320.2 14.5    616.7 6.8   9,127.0  2.5    2,066.9             6.941.0    219.2
NOMEN S POLYTECHNICS                              32.36i.b 66,3    3.027.6  10.2  1t292.1  3.4  37V481.2  10.4    9.552.5       26.979.7  1,049.0
STUDENT MAD FACILTY NOUSING                       38.976.2 90.8    1.733.9  4.0  2.299.7 5.l  424909.9  11.9   11,402.7         304299.0  1,219.1
Sub-Totel CAPACITY EXPANSION                        142.900.2 81.9   19.t65.6  11.4  11,653.4  6.7  174,519.2  48.2   43,578,8    1226.568  4,844.5
S. OKLITY IIEI MENT
TEACHER TRAIRING                                  15P167,3 81.3    2.099.8  11.3  1,394.3  7.5  18t661.4  5.2    4.370.6        13,933.8    357.0
CERRICULUM DEULOPEKNT                              2.053.7 72.1      59,6  20.7    205.7  7.2   2849.0  0.8         515.2       2.274.7     59.0
EOUIPIIDT AND FACULTY IIPROENT NWA               105o392.0 P3.9    8.074.5  6.4  12?186.0 9.t 1254652.6 34.7   41.602.9         '9.389.3  4,60.4
NAINTEWCE CELLS                                    5.163.2 62.9    2,274.5  27.7    765.7 9.3   8,203.3  2.3    1,440.9          6,530.0    232.4
Sub-TotI QULITY UlROVElMT                           127,776.1 S2.2   13.030.4  8.4  146551.7 9.4  155.366.3 42.9   47,t29,7    102,127.8  5.308.8
C. EFFICIENCY IIROVINT
STRENOTHENINC STAtE DIRECTORATE OF TECH. EDUC.    13.046,9 67.3    4,567.8 23.6  1.775.4  9.2  19,390.1  5.4    3,235.7         15,806.2    348.2
9AN'TING AUTONOMY TO POLYTECHNICS                  t,2'1.7 74.0       359.2  21.8     69.3  4.2   1,650.1  0.5       258.5       1.363.8     27.8
PROR011MB6 INDUSTRY - IKTITUTE INTERACTION        7,874.1 70.4    2#750.0 24.6    559.9 5.0  11,83.9  3.1    1,712.0           9,281.5    190.4
Sub-Total EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT                     22,142.6 68.7    7.676.9  23.0  '.404.6  7.5  32.224.2  0.9    5.206.2        26,451,5    566.5
Total Disbursent                                      292.819.0 80.9   40;60D9  11.2  20.609,8 7,9  362;109.6 100.0   96.714,8    254;675.0  10.719.?
sfl;fl:C e =:=:n ====Z:Sl:X--- ar ssamms.a   tinnnfla iteSt  n=ef=Se  nSa             
Decbe! 18. 1990  15:48



- 89 -
ANNEX 23
Page 2
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN BY CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURE
(US$ Million)
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT       STATE      GOVERNM[NT or
ASSOCIATION   GOVERNHENT          INDIA          Total               Local
------------  -----------  --------------  ------------  For*   (Excl.  Duties I
Asournt   %    Amount  '      Amount   Z    Amount   X    Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
= === ===  = ==== ======zz    ==:===  ====   M__=  =::_  ====_=  Z==== = ====,=Z
A. CIVIL WORKS                            120.?  08.8       2,3  1.7      12.9   9.5   135.3  37.4   38.2    93.1            4.1
B. FURNITURE                               11.5  89.1      0.3  2.4        1.1   8.4    12.9   3.6    2.2    10.4           0.3
C. VEHICLES                                 4.6  90.2      0.2  3,0        0,4   6.8      5.2   1.4    2.9        2.1       0.3
D. EQUIPMENT                               91.2  89.6      3.0  3.0        7.6   7.5   101.9  28.1   44.9    51.9           5.1
E. SALARIES OF ADDITIONAL STAFF            35.6  55.6    26.4 41.2         2.1   3.2    64.1  17.7         -    64.1           -
F. CONSUMABLE TRAINING MATERIALS            8.4  53.5      4.B 30.4        2.5  16.1    15.7   4.3    3.6    11.3            0.8
G. LOCAL FELLOWStIIPS                       4.3 100.0         -    -         -      -     4.3   1 2        -      4.3          -
H. FOREIGN FELLOWSHIPS                      3.4 100.0         -    -       0.0   0.0      3,4   0.9    3.1       0,3           -
1. LOCAL CONSULTANT                         1.4  88.8        -    -        0,2  11.2      1.6   0.4        -      1.6          -
J. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                      0.1 100.0         -    -         -      -     0.1   0.0    0.1        0.0          -
K. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                5.4  53.2       3.5 34.7       1.2  12.1    10.2   2.8    0.6         9.6          -
L. BOOKS                                    4.7  88.0      0.2  3.0        0.5   9.0       5.3   1,5    1.2       3.8        0.3
M. LOCAL TRAINING                           1.6  86.4         -    -       0.2  13.6       1.8   0.5       -      1.8          -
N. SCHOLARSHIPS                             0.4 100.0         -              -      -     0.4   0.1        -      0.4          -
tal Disbursement                          292.8  80.9    40.7 11.2        28.6   7.9   362.1 100.0   96.7   254.7          10.7
eme1819=_=0==1  ====4  ===  ===== ===8=  ====== =====  =====  ====== =_=    = ====
cember 18# 1990 15:048



- 90 -
ANNEX 24
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
RECURRENT COST IMPLICATIONS
TABLE 1. Actual and Projected Recurrent Expenditure on Education
Non-Plan Educ.                              Actual                        Projected
Budget Allocation             FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90           1998
(Rs Million)                               _-
A. Andhra Pradesh            158.10  165.70  122.30  219.50  329.10         486.10
B. Assam                      59.47   75.95   85.71   81.48   97.53         144.34
C. Haryana                   191.91  206.90  277.90  251.80  356.01         452.00
D. Himachal Pradesh           37.00   51.10   63.00   75.00   64.00          94.40
E. Maharashtra               179.70  182.50  197.00  235.80  270.60         399.13
F. Punjab                    251.30  245.20  276.50  308.70  310.00         434.00
G. Tamil Nadu                198.86  228.38  263.60  257.40  289.77         428.86
H. West Bengal                82.58  102.27  126.72  129.27  149.62         221.44
I. Delhi                      21.5    24.01   29.00   31.55   30.38          44.81
TABLE 2. Recurrent Cost of Project 1998
J. Total Recurrent Cost of Project:  Rs.440.0 million (US$17.1 million)
K. Andhra Pradesh Recurrent Costs:   Rs.52.5 million (US$2.0 million)
L. Assam Recurrent Costs:              Rs.21.0 million (US$0.8 million)
M. Haryana Recurrent Costs:             Rs.51.8 million (US$2.0 million)
N. Himachal Pradesh Recurrent Costs: Rs.21.6 million (US$0.8 million)
O. Maharashtra Recurrent Costs:        Rs.100.1 million (US$3.9 million)
P. Punjab Recurrent Costs:             Rs.51.0 million (US$2.0 million)
Q. Tamil Nadu Recurrent Costs:         Rs.77.7 million (US$3.0 million)
R. West Bengal Recurrent Costs:        Rs.58.6 million (US$2.3 million)
S. Delhi Recurrent Costs:          Rs.5.8 million (US$0.2 million)
TABLE 3. Recurrent Cost Implications
Andhra Pradesh recurrent cost as Z of project AP Budget (K as Z A)= 10.8%
Assam recurrent cost as Z of project Assam Budget (L as Z B)= 14.54Z
Haryana recurrent cost as Z of project Haryana Budget (M as Z C)= 11.46?
Himachal Pradesh recurrent cost as Z of project HP Budget (N as Z D)= 23?
Maharashtra recurrent cost as Z of project Maharashtra Budget (0 as Z E)= 25Z
Punjab recurrent cost as Z of project Punjab Budget (P as Z F)= 11.752
Tamil Nadu recurrent cost as Z of project Tamil Nadu Budget (Q as Z G)= 18.1%
West Bengal recurrent cost as 2 of project WB Budget (R as Z H)= 26.4Z
Delhi recurrent cost as Z of project Delhi Budget (S as Z I)= 12.92
Sources: State Directorates of Technical Education.



ANNEX 25
INDIA
SECOND TECHNI-CIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Civil Works Gerneral Implementat onn Schedule
C,1 -,            0         J1        ,D~o                       JjJ  SJ                  o D 0       Jii      OJ        i1
AS'  :~~~~:'        SC       MA        03       M.A   I  SIC~~~~~~~~5:  MIA  510     MIA      I 5       MIA      M1 4A                IAI
t.  A   S~~~~~~~~ ~I                     I                                       II
4   P'O                      I     3c; 300 00        O~~~~~~JcI3000    3005 0I
5     .J.                                     C001~~~~~31  000.6000    100T1006   100610   I 
6   8 d 0-ot                        c 'i0"013             I I00 1i2,30 OC       0001006c     I  010001          I I II                                    I   I
I 9 dd g                                 3ICO000        i    D00ooo             0.00000 1   00100                 II
8   8 d 1Le .-t o- *.00!G00 33    i                                De 06 30610001    i 6000!00oo    i 100  0  i   i   i                I I           I I I
9   C-t-t S-0- 'o                I   I 06 000oI100100001                          00010I           01 
IC  C-"t-~t.i0o.   0 000001000!000 oOoioooioooiiOOO oooioooioooiooo OOOIOOOIOOOIOOO 0001.000   100 000601 
11  C-.,..t... P.,.o                      I                  000.     000I000I000;000 0006000 61000100.    0I00l000l000 00010001000100O01OOIOOIOOO(00 00010001
~~~~~~ ~~~~S.pt.b.' ,1001
C O.'  D.t.            Octob.. 1998
Furniture and Equipment General Procurement Plan
Cy 90  Q1T               9                l03        -     039                 4  5T                9 496  47                        q? go
D .        1      Dl J0     J14      04Jm iiS                     1  J44  04  D4J0J 4J 0D J                              J4  J    0D J     Ji
A C T I V I T Y               MIA   I  SID       MIA   I 1         MIo  A   510       MI1A  I  510      $ A       510      MIA      SI       $4 I A  I  50      MIA
2   F-MI L.e0a A C,o.p,.g   00010001                00010001   I            01    1  000 Boo!               0001    I                                I I I
I l              I 1 1 1   I       I  II                  i
Bd Docu..n~ts  /                    10 1 01                                Ol               11                 11 I                                   l
I I   I         I      I II    IOI   i  I                               IIIII                                    I
Ad~.*,t,s.*..t a e-dd-g           I 100              I   10001o        I     0001         10001    I         0001    i                            I      I
i I   I              I I          I    I   I         I    I   II                  
5 8-d E,vl~st-o.                 i         0 00    0I   IIiI 1000                            1000o                                                   I 1 
1  i  I  I  i  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
7   $4od-tsct  .nO  .1              i Ir  1                      00   010   01 00   00                               00000
...f.t~a0-n.g A                     ID00--I                      00100 I0   0   001 ooljoooiooo 000 000 00100 ooolooo CA. 
8   1~~~4t.llat.o~~~~~                I         0001 ~~~000                          000'         I     of            000                        I
0.9'.nt.. P-rod                I   I   I                                    )  00000 00010000000  -0 oio    oioloooooooooo 
-~ ~~~~~~~.......I                                                   000 000I 000I 0001000 000 000CIO
I/ St,.nd.rd B'd Do-...nta ar. *I,..dy 80010~*d
..  O1, Croup R.v...



0                                                       -                                             -~~~~~~~~~~--------
-            -      -  -      -       -  -      -      -   -      -      -  -      -      -   -      -      -   -      -      -  -      -
tttnt.t  ;;;rzt & t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,             N                                                       - ~                ~          ~         ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~t
0    5                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-    -      -      -   -      -      -   -      -      -  -       -     -   -      -      -   -      -      -  -      -      -   -      -      -      -   -      -      -  -       -      -  -      -      -   -      -      -   -      -      -  -      -      -   -      -      -
- - -   -   -      -      -      -   -      -      -  -      -      -       -  -      -      -   -      -      -      -  -       -      -  -      -      -      -   -      -      -   -      -      -      -  -      -       -  -      -      -      -   -      -      -
- - - -    -   -      -  -      -   -      -  -       -  -      -   -      -  -      -   -      -   -      -  -      -   -      -      -   -      -  -      -   -      -  -      -   -      -   -      -  -      -   --3 :-                      -   -      -   -      -
-    -.         -  -      -   -      -   --2-                 -      -   -      -  -          -  -   -      -  -       -  -      -   -      -  -      -   -      -   -      -  -      -   -  -      -   -      -   -      -  -      -   -      -  -      -   -      -   -      -  -



- 93 -
ANNEX 27
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
A Plan for the Review of the Qualitative Aspects of Project Implementation
A.    MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (HIS) FOR MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
1.    The implementation of the First and Second Technician Education projects
would require periodic monitoring of progress against an agreed implementation
schedule and identified benchmarks. Because of the diversity and volume of
data that will be handled, it is important that over time a computerized
Management Information System (MIS) be established up to assist in carrying
out this task.
Types of Data to be Processed by the MIS
2.    The MIS should be designed to process the following indicative list of
project data:
a) Financial Data
- Up-to-date expenditures made against each project component;
- Eligible amounts for disbursement and amounts actually disbursed
to date.
b) Performance Data
-  Civil works: status of construction, number of workshops, labs,
classrooms, centers/cells, etc.;
- Procurement: status of procurement of equipment, furniture,
vehicles, books, consumable materials, etc.;
- Training: status of teachers trained in industry, at the various
institutes, locally and abroad, fellowships, study tours, etc.;
- Actual performance of the above against targets to date;
- Industty-Institute Interaction activities including number of
sandwicn courses, guest lecturers, in-plant training for teachers,
consultancies, enrollment on Continuing Education Courses and
amount of revenue generated, etc.
c) Quality and Efficiency Indicators
- A list of quality and efficiency improvement indicatr 3 for each
State with the targeted monitorable benchmark tc       _hieved on a
year-wise basis;



- 94 -
ANNEX 27
Page 2
- Actual performance against targets with dates;
Institutionalizing the MIS
3.    During the life of the project and beyo.id, it is anticipated that a
fully operational project MIS would be developed by the NPIU in consultation
with the States. This MIS could be used for regular information processing at
both the national and State levels. The types of information that could be
processed through the MIS would include:
-   Admission to various courses category-wise and rank-wise;
-   Plan allocations to each Department and amounts actually spent;
-   Publications and teaching aids prepared by each institution;
-   Addresses and other information on industries, contact persons and
linkages developed;
-   Continuing education programs conducted, enrollments and financial
returns thereof;
-   Staff development activities in collaboration with the TTTIs,
industries and other organizations;
-   Tracer data and employment records of graduates.
4.    The Bank would work closely with NPIU and States as and if required, to
share other experiences in the establishment and implementation of project
MIS.  A suggested schedule for Bank staff consultations and review for the
first year of the project (CY91) is outlined from paragraph 32 onwards.
B.    SUPERVISION OF THE PHYSICAL ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT
5.    Quality Control Under the Projects:  In view of the wide scope and
diversity in the type of civil construction to be undertaken, the 'arge amount
of investment and the sizeable amount of financing under both the Technician
Education Projects, the States must ensure that an adequate mechanism is
designed to monitor the supervision of construction during the different
stages of implementation. The Bank Staff Appraisal Reports based on
discussions with State and Center officials already includes a brief
description of existing responsibilities for the implementation and monitoring
of construction activities under these projects. However, because State-level
supervision of civil works to ensure good quality of construction is an area
of special emphasis and concern of both the States and the Bank, it is
important that the supervision mechanism be clearly elaborated.
6.    Quality of Construction is necessarily a function of the type of
supervision undertaken by the State. With this in mind, the general and
specific responsibilities of the different State and local agencies, at
different otages of the implementation, are outlined below for reference.
7.    Responsibili.ie:t The responsibility of quality control rests fully
with the State and on its behalf, the supervising engineers and the



ANNEX 27
Page 3
institutions and agencies during the preparation and implementation stages. In
brief, the responsibilities are shared mainly by the following:
(a)   the Client or Beneficiary;
(b)   the Consulting Firm or Design Architect;
(c)   the Contracting Firm or Contractor; and
(d)   the Supervising Agency.
8.    The Client:  The Client's role is manifested in the selection of the
Consultant Firm or Design Architect. The Client should have the choice of
resorting to new designs and new planning as against utilizing previously
conceived and possibly outdated standard designs. When the choice of the
Client is to use standard designs, it should be ensured that these designs are
updated to reflect the new academic requirements as well as their functional
relationships. The Client should ensure the Design Architect of his choice
has the full responsibility for making final decisions with respect to design,
choice of materials and quality workmanship, acceptability or rejection of
defectiva materials and faulty workmanship.
9.    The Consulting Firm or Design Architect will be the main representative
of the Client from the design/preparation stage to the completion of
construction. They will deliver complete sets of architectural drawings.
working drawings, site development plans, construction details and additional
specifications to meet PWD standard specifications; ensure that structural and
electro-mechanical designs and drawings are prepared and made part of th,n
required sets for bidding; coordinate all drawings and ensure that no
technical interference between the architectural design, structural and
electro-mechanical designs take place; give consideration to exposures,
orientation and prevailing winds in the design and in the implantation of
buildings on site; and remain responsible for ensuring appropriate supervision
and quality control of construction.
10.   The Contractor has the major task of executing the works.  Therefore,
the quality of construction will depend on managing the site, the performance
of the site engineer and technical staff in supervising the construction, as
well as the performance of workers.   The Contractor should be prequalified
and thoroughly post qualified for the job prior to signing of a contract,
following established criteria practiced by the States.
11.   The Contractor, among other things, should be made responsible for
providing adequate site management set-up and sufficient technical staff to
ensure proper management of construction; well-prepared implementation charts
which are synchronized with the different construction requirements;
sufficient amount of labor on site; adequate required equipment; an
experienced supervision engineer assisted by technicians when needed;
updated schedules for supply of materials and labor; site book for recording
activities, materials delivered, labor on site, issues and remedies; time to
meet with the Design Architect for review of progress and resolving of issues.
12.   The Site Resident Engineer represents on-site, the Consulting Firm and
the Client, with major responsibility for ensuring that construction



- 96 -                        ANNEX 27
Page 4
dttivities take place normally and progress is made according to
implementation schedules, that works are synchronized to maintain continuity
in accordance with technical specifications and construction details as
prepared by the Architect, control the quality of materials delivered,
performance of workers and quality of workmanship on site, and to protect the
e)vnit 's interest through maintaining efficiency and quality control.  Among
other responsibilities, the Site Engineer should review the Contractor's
preparation of the site prior to starting of works; review and ensure the
Contractor's nmanagement of the site and the adequacy of his technical staff;
ensure that full sets of all drawings and specifications are also available on
site; review the Contractor's construction charts, schedules for supply of
materials and labor; ensure during the execution of works the Contractor's
respect for established bench marks, leveling and alignment; check and ensure
proper framing, appropriate scaffolding and safety on site; check quality of
materials and workmanship to be prDvided in accordance with the
specifications; ensure adherence to specifications and dtawings, in particular
for the execution of construction details; secure testing of materials and
reject defective materials and workmanship; formulate remedies and on-site
solutions, and issue in writing check lists and instructions for correction
and making good; call for meetings with the Contractor and his sub-contractors
for review and discussion of site issues; prepare and issue monthly reports on
progress.
13.   The Bank's Architect has a role to play under Bank financed projects and
during implementation has the responsibility to review physical proposals for
selected accommodations to see that they meet with the project requirements.
Proposed areas for facilities and accommodations are reviewed to see that they
fall within acknowledged area norms prescribed for planned facilities.
Preliminary designs are reviewed to ensure efficient and economic planning,
proper functional relationship and appropriate use of construction methods and
materials as well as adequate implementation of buildings on site plan,
orientation and exposures and other architectural and construction aspects.
The Bank Architect will visit and review selected sites to maintain the Bank's
information base and discuss with project authorities issues arising from site
selection and construction (see Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement).
Rerision Mechanism
14.     The mechanism should be designed to monitor the supervision under
contract obligations with both the Contractor as well as the Consultant Firm
or Design Architect. Its activities must reach every construction site as it
is essential to ensure quality in each building. The activities for quality
control will start at the Polytechnic level through the Project Implementation
Cell (PIC). The technical section of the PIC will have an Engineer and/or
Architect whose main responsibility is to monitor construction activities, the
continuity and quality of work on site and to report to the PIC, The role is
limited to visiting the construction sites, reviewing progress, recording and
reporting. To avoid interference in progress of work, the Engineer/Architect
will not be empowered to stop work, refuse or accept submitted materials or
workmanship. His report to the PIC will outline issues and problems relating
to progress and quality. The PIC will handle issues in dealing accordingly
with the Consultant Firm and/or the site Engineer who are in charge of
supervision. The latter will take matters to the Contractor, discuss and



- 97-
ANNEX 27
Page 5
solve issues raised by the PIC ana see to it that the Contractor abides bv the
terms of his contract.
15.   Periodic reports will be compiled by the PIC and submitted to the
State's Project Implementition U'it (SPIU).   The latter has a special Quality
Control Unit whose responsibility also is to er.sure the quality of
construction for Government buildings through periodic visits to construction
sites. The PWD Unit is centrally located and is represented regionally. The
Unit will perform its duty independently from the activities of the PIC
described above, but it will also interact with it and with the SPIU.
16.   The SPIU would also have a role to play in quality control of
construction. While all construction and quality issues should be resolved at
the Polytechnic/PIC level, some issues may require the intervention of the
SPIU Architect. The States have already assigned an Architect, recruited or
deputed from the PWD, in the engineering/technical unit of the ZPIU. The
Architect will be responsible for visiting constr'Bction .ites, monitoring the
continuity and progress of work, controlling quality of construction,
assembling and compiling submitted reports by PIC's and PWD's Quality Control
Unit, preparing and submitting semi-annual reports to the National Project
Implementation Unit (NPIU) at the central level. Such reports will cover a
description of the overall status of construction, update progress in
implementation, revise costs of civil works, comment on quality of
construction works, relay issues encountered and remedies applied, update
implementation schedule and indicate new completion date. The SPIU will
ensure periodic visits to the State construction sites, and in particular to
sites experiencing difficulties, having problems, and requiring assistance and
solving of issues related to advancement of work and quality control.
17.   The Architect in the NPIU will not be directly involved in the actual
supervision of construction. His major role is to interact with the States
through the SPIUs and monitor the overall physical implementation of the
Project, ensure submission of progress reports of the State, review submitted
reports and prepare an overall evaluation, provide recommendations and
interact with the States and World Bank Teams when they visit India.
C.    INDUSTRY-INSTITUTE INTERACTION
18.   In the past, Polytechnics operated in isolation with little direct
contact or involvement of industry. The Polytechnics, without any external
inputs made few adjustments in their curricula, while their equipment became
outdated and their teaching staff more academically oriented with little or no
relevant industrial experience. Industry has more recently, managed to make
better emolument and career development adjustments than the government sector
with the result that it has become difficult for Polytechnics to attract
people with industrial experience to its teaching staff. This further aggra-
vates the isolation from which Polytechnics suffer.
19.   In order to develop lasting linkages between Polytechnics and industry
the following provisions are included in the proposed project:
(a)   29 Industry-Institute Interaction Central/Regional Cells (III-
Cells) are being established the sixteen participating States and
the Union Territory of New Delhi; and



- 98 -
ANNEX 27
Page 6
(1)   372 Industry-Institute Interaction Cells would be set up in
Polytechnics, each with a Training and Placement officer.
20.   Regular and extensive reviews and assessments of key aspects of the
process by the States and the NPIU will ensure that this most important part
of the pcoiect fulfills expectations in a planned manner. The areas which
require close coordination relate to the interaction between industry,
State governments and Polytechnics.
21.   Services which inidustry can supply to Polytechnics are as follows:
(a)   participation in the development of new curricula in existing and
new technology courses;
(b)   training in industry of new and existing teaching staff properly
supervised by the training officers of the industries involved;
(c)   training of students in industry in a sandwich program and in a
manr.er that ensures maximum benefit. This to be done by adjusting
both time and content accordingly;
(d)   attaching wherever feasible, free-standing government Polytechnics
to an industry or a group of industries, thereby ensuring that
training in the institutes are more realistic and relevant to
industry;
(e)   inducing industries to provide/subsidize guest lecturers to the
Polytechnics because of the official low remuneration which
institutions to pay.
22.   Services which Polytechnics are expected to provide to industry
include:
(a)   the organization of Continuing Education courses for employees of
industry to upgrade their knowledge and chances of further career
development;
(b)   arrange on request, specialized courses for industry;
(c)   plan laboratories and workshops in such a way that they can be
utilized for testing and other services to industry; and
(d)   arrange in-plant training courses in industry;
23.   Most of the above activities will also assist the Polytechnics to
generate income to offset some of their operation and maintenance costs.
REVIEW OF IMPLEMENTATION
24.   As a part of the Bank obligations under the Project Agreement, the Bank
staff will from time to time be associated with and review progress in the
implementation of Industry-Institute Interaction. The following is a
preliminary list of activities which Bank staff has identified in consultation



- 99 -
ANNEX 27
Page 7
with NPIU and States as critically important in the period to December 1991
and in which some Bank experiences can be useful:
(a)   workshops with Technology Watch Group and industry for curriculum
development including need analysis for new and emerging
technology courses;
(b)   the ident3fication and planning of training for specialists in
high technolog" in India and abroad and which will also assist, to
some extent, the States in specifying equipment requirements, the
training of teachers, and the installation and start up of the
equipment; and
(c)   workshops on Industry-Institute Interaction with the coi'.aboration
of the respective Directorates of Technical Education in all
project States and the Union Territory of Delhi.
25.   Engaging Industry in the Process.  At the invitation of the State
officials, Bank staff have attended a series of meetings with industrialists
w- re the States have elicited the increased involvement of industry in
lalytechnic training. On the bais of meetings (Bombay, Madras, New Delhi,
Chandigarh), it is evident that the reactiLn and willingness of Industry to
cooperate with the Directorates is further enhanced when they are assured that
the States and Bank will remain active on this component of the project.
Hence it is proposed that the States organize more such meetings/workshops and
that Bank staff participate in these to the extent possible, to further
demonstrate the Bank Group support of this type of collaboration.
26.   Curriculum Development/Preparation of Equipment Requirements is the
responsibility of the four Technical Teachers Training Institutes. The Bank
would also want to be kept up-to-date and associated with the process
especially where it involves the new technology courses e.g., Environmental
Engineering, Fiber Optics, CAD/CAM, Computer Hardwa,e, Robotics & Automation,
Satellite Technology, Telematics, Bio-Technology and Sea-Bed Mining. The Bank
can assist the NPIU and States by further facilitate the Technology transfer
objective i=of the project. It is understood that after course outlines are
prepared, a process of consultation begir.s with industry also involving
equipment requirements and the training of teachers. The Bank could assist
and/or facilitate delegations from TTTIs to visit industries and institutions
in Europe and USA. Also, as a part of the normal project implementation
review process, the Bank can bring in speciality experts in these high-tech
areas to workwith TTTI and State Directorate Staff. These visits will be
mainly in the fields of CNC machines and hi-tech electronics.
27.   Teacher and Student Attachment Programs.  Schemes should be developed by
each State in consultation with industry to attach teachers and sturl-ts for
training in industry. Bank staff and consultants can, if requested, assist in
bringing to this process, world-wide experiences and guidance.
28.   Sustainability of Industry-Institute Interaction.  For continuation of
industry-institute interaction after the completion of the project, the
established Advisory Committees should ensure that the Industry-Institute
Cells continue functioning. Bank staff will review from time to time in
conunction with the States and NPIU, the functioning of these Committees and
Cells.



- 100 -
ANNEX 28
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCArION PROJECT
Forecasts of Expenditures and Disbursements
Disbursement
IDA                                                                        ProfI le (X)   Semester
Fiscal Yonr           Expendituroe         Disburemonts        Cumulativo  of Regional   from
and Semester      Semester Cumulative  Semester Cumulative    As X of       Education     Appraisal
Total       Proj cts      Date
---------- --- USS million -------------
FY92
Jul 91-Doec 91        -         -           13.0    13.0 La        4            -            2
Jan 92-Jun 92       16.30    16.80          e1.a    13.3           4            8            3
FY93
J.l 92-Dec 92       16.80    30.60          13.8    28.6           9           10            4
Jan 93-Jun 98       29.62    60.22          26.0    62.6          17           14            6
FY94
Jul 93-Dec 93       29.62    89.84          26.0     78.6         26           18            8
Jan 94-Jun 94       39.44   129.28          34.4    113.0         87           26            7
FY96
Jul 94-Dec 94       39.44   168.72          84.4   147.4          48           34            8
Jan 96-Jun 96       81.86   200.67          27.3    174.7         67           46            9
FY96
Jul 96-Dec 96       31.86   232.42          27.8   202.0          6S           64           10
Jan 96-Jun 96       28.40   266.82          19.3   221.8          72           62           11
FY97
Jul 96-Dec 98       23.40   279.22          19.3   240.6          78           74           12
Jan 97-Jun 97       21.60   300.72          17.4   268.0          84           78           18
FY98
Jul 97-D.c 9.       21.50   822.22         17.4   275.4           90          86            14
Jan 98-Jun 98       19.96   842.17          16.9   291.8          96           94           15
FY99
Jul 98-Dec 98       19.96   862.11          16.8   807.1         100          100           18
Jan 99-Jun 99
Closing Date:  June 1999
/a Special Account



- 1.01 -
ANNEX 29
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect Files
A.    Documents Available by State
Andhra Pradesh
A-1   Project Report on Strenthening Technician Education in Andhra
Pradesh with World Bank Assistance, Govt. of Andhra Pradesti, Dept.
of Technical Education, Governmen Offices Building, Hyderabad,
28th August, 1990.
Assam
A-2   Project Report, Strengthening Technician Education in Assam with
World Bank Assistance, Govt. of Assam, Directorate of Technical
Education, Sept. 1990.
Haryana
A-3   Project Proposal for Strenthening of Technician Education in the
State of Haryana (India) with World Bank Assistance, Directorate
of Technical Education, Haryana, Chandigarh, Sep. 1990
Himachal Pradesh
A-4   Project for Strenghtening Technician Education with World Bank
Assistance, Vol-I, Project Proposal, Dept. of Technical Education,
Directora:e of Technical Education, H. P., Sundernagar, District
Mandi, Himachal Pradesh, Revised Sept. 1990
A-5   Vol-II, Detailed Project Report for Government Polytechnic Sunderna-
gar, District Mandi, Himachal Pradesh.
A-6   Vol-III,  Detailed  Project  Report  for  Government  Polytechnic,
Hamirpur, District Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh.
A-7   Vol-IV, Detailed Project Report for Government Polytechnic Rohroo,
District Shimla, Himachal Pradesh.
A-8   Vol-V,  Detailed Project Report  for Government Polytechnic  (for
Women) Kandaghat, District Solan, Himachal Pradesh.
A-9   Vol-VI, Summary of Expenditure and Phasing for Five Years of All
Components, Himachal Pradesh.
A-10  Vol-VII, Part 1-8, Details of Inputs of Directorate, Development
Centre, State Board of Technical Education, Upgrading of Junior
Technical School and Polytechnics.
Maharashtra
A-l1  Project for Strengthening Technician Education in Maharashtra
State with World Bank Assistance, Government of Maharashtra,
Technical Education Depdrtment, Bombay, Sept. 1990.



- 102 -
ANNEX 29
Page 2
Puniab
A-12  Proposal for Strengthening of Technical Education in Punjab State
with World Bank Assistance, Directorate of Technical Education,
Punjab State, Chandigarh, Sept. 1990.
Tamil Nadu
A-13  Project Proposal for Development of Technician Education in Tamil
Nadu with World Bank Assistance, Department of Technical Education
Madras, Sept. 1990.
West Bengal
A-14  Project Report on Strengthening of Technician Education with World
Bank Assistance, Directorate of Technical Education, West Bengal.
Sept. 1990.
New Delhi
A-15  Project for Strengthening of Technician Education in Delhi with
World Bank Assistance, Directoprate of Training and Technical
Education, New Delhi, Sept 1990



- 103 -
CHART 1
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Articulation of the Education System
26
21
25
20                                          D)octoral
24                         Doctoral               Prograrnc_                                                     Scientist
23    19                   Programas              (3.5 Years)
18                 (3-5 Years)
22                                                     Porm                                                       nicr
17              Graduate Programs      Graduate Progranis                                                 Engineers
21    16                     (Masters)             (Masters)                                              t   Tcchologists
20    15
15
19                       Undergraduate          Undergraduate
18    14                   Programs               Programs
13                  (General)               (General)
17                                                                             Post Dip
+            4 4                   ~~~~~~~~Coursc
I                     C                                 Technicians
j                    Polytechnic
l                                    .                  *|  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vocational
17                                                   |                           j l r                          _ Courses  Technicians
12                    Higher Secondary Education
16                   ...          ........  ................                   (3yrs)    ITI
1           Academi c"            Voc~ational                                         Tar                rfse
15                              . ..Y.s)
15
10
14
9
13
8
12                                          Secondary  Education
1      7
6   |0    Unskillcd
10
5
9   |                                                                                                            Workers
4
8    3                                        Primary  Education
7
2
6
5
Years of
Schooling



- 104 -
CHART 2
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Technician Education System in India
C                   EC/I
.Professional
e0    2                                    E4    -   Engineer
p
Higher Level
P                      2         * Technician
Technicians
VS
Skilled Workers
L~m
LEGEND
ITI - Industrial Training Institute
VS - Vocational Schools
P - Polytechnics
C - Colleges
EC/IT- Engineering Colleges/Institute of Technology



- 105 -
CHART 3
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Organizational Structure of Technical Education
NAIIONAL                                                  STATE
GOVERNMWNT                                              GOVI-ERNMEN1'
MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCES                              DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
DEVELOPMEN'T
COUN'CII. FOR                 BL1TEAU OF                                      DIRFCTORATE    BOARDS OF
nCl(LNICAI,                  T'ECMNICAL        UGC     - :Nl'ERSITY         OFTECIINICAL    TEChNICAL
EDUCATION                    EDUCATION                                        FDUCATlON EDUCATION
(AIC'IE)_
ALI.    REGIONAI,    REGIONAL BOARDS OF   OITS    TECICAL         ENGINEERNG   POLYTEClINICS   ENGINEERI.G
INDIA   COM.MITEES    OFFICES  APPRENTIC  RECS | TEACILERS"         COIJIEGES                  COLLEGES
BOARDS                             ESILP             AFFILIATED     ARFFIUATED
OF                           l TRAINING            lTO                TO
STUDESE                                                            UNIVERSITIES



It (itGraduate Stud1ies &
ke-,erch
andae (mredut Studies                  ^ 
Techncian nEducation &                                                                                       Z      Z
>~~~~~
|ucationalr Technology_
| I-mtrgunt lAamlnolgres                                                                                    l         a
En   0
| No                C? f           G                   _   _
Sou___hem _                                                                              N _3
CoTltunuing l:dUCati<yn &   fl                              >                            W         >    r F1        F'
Ihstant Learnmg     fn         _          C                            O         ttl    t 
3 oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
_  3 o-  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J



- 107 -
CHART 5
INDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Organizational Structure of NPIU at Ed.CIL
STEERING COUMITTEE
NATIONAL PROJECT DIRECTORATE
sooty ADVISOPROJECT ADVISOR
ICOWITTEE
ADi              ACADFEIIC WNGo
PROJECT                                  PROJECT                            M   PROJECT
COORDINATOR-I    <                  >  COORDINATOR-11    <-I- 1->   COORDINATOR-l11
(Plnnni ng  ^                              (Academic)        I      I       (Reources A 
Evalusti:on)                               Dy. Project       I       I        Services)
Doputy Project                           Coordinatora-2       I      I    Coordinatora-2
Coardinstors-2
OY. MANAOE                 ECUIVE                DY. WAOE             ASST. IfWA<I            SS
( I nf o rmti on a  l       ENGINIEER             (Equ l p_nt           (Staff                INO
Pub(incations)           EuldinE R                Procur_nt)          DStolopAnt             (
I     Construction)                                Administratlon)
- System Analyst-I  I
I-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I



- 108 -
CHART 6
TNDIA
SECOND TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Organizational Chart of National Project Directorate at BET of MHRD
STEERINC COMMITTEE  I
                ~~                                              ~~I                                      I____   
- WORLD BANW        < - - - - - - - - - -             NATIONAL PROJECT          - - - - - - - - -)I  NPIU AND Ed.CIL
- PLANNING          I                                     DIRECTOR                                  - _ _ _ _ _  - -   _
COMMISSION        I                             JEA(T) - ADDITIONAL CHARGE
- PARLIAMENT        I
- AICTE             I
- MHRD              I
- OEA               I
- TTTIs             I                                 DIRECTOR (TECHNICAL)
-ODTE* 
-DGSM D                                               ASSISTANCE EDUCATIONAL
_ - - - - - - - - - - _-                                   ADVISOR (TECHNICAL)
OFFICE OF NPD



