CREDIT NUMBER 2223 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Technician Education Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                       1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2223 IN
DEVELO0NT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           4         , 1991, between INDIA,
acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)  the Project will be carried out by the Borrower, in
respect of the Union Territory (as herein detined), and the Project
States (as herein defined), in respect thereto, with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
tvailable to the Project States the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, an the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth ira this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Project States;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Gener4 Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Project States of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b)   "Project States" mean the following States of the
Borrower: Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and include any
successor or successors thereto;
(c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(d)  "Union Territory" means the Union Territo .y of Delhi
administered by the Borrower, and includes (i) any other Union
Territory or Union Territories of the Borrower selected on the basis
of criteria acceptable to the Association for the carrying out of
the Project, and (ii) any successor or successors thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred
thirteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 213,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association


﻿-3-
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
June 1, 2001 and ending December 1, 2025. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on December 1, 2010 shall be one
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
(b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify


﻿-4-
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification   terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines thaL the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall (i) carry out the Project in
respect of the Union Territory with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and
educational practices, and shall provide promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project, and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under this Agreement, cause the Project States
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the respective obligations of the Project States
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all actions,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Project States to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-5-
(b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
(i) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall in respect of the Union
Territory carry out the Project mutatis mutandis in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 of the Project
Agreement.
(c)  The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the
Credit available to the Project States for such parts of the Project
as are to be carried out by each Project State in accordance with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance to
the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agree-
ment.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
portions of the Project to be carried out by the Project States
shall be carried out by the respective Project States pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by December 1, 1991, jointly
with the Project States, develop and institute and thereafter
maintain fellowship training programs, including study tours, agreed
to by the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall (a) develop and establish a
Management Information System (MIS) in the National Project
Implementation Unit for monitoring and supervision of the Project,
(b) implement, in conjunction with the Project States, a supervision
plan agreed to by the Association, and (c) undertake, in conjunction
with the Association and the Project States, an annual review of
Project progress on the basis of monitorable benchmarks agreed to
by the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-6-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall withhold and cause the
Project States to withhold the establishment of any new publicly
funded polytechnic in the Project States without the prior approval
of the All India Council for Technical Education.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall maintain adequate staff in
the National Project Implementation Unit and the Technical Teacher
Training Institutes of the Borrower in accordance with the Schedule
of Deployment of Key Additional Staff agreed to by the Borrower and
the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of (i) the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for the Project, and (ii) the
Project States responsible for carrying out their respective parts
of the Project.
(b)  The Borrower shall:
(i)   have or cause to have the records and accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
including those for the Special Account for each
fiscal   year  audited,   in   accordance   with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)   furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as  the   Association   shall  have   reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning such
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the


﻿-7-
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)  ensure that all records      (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records.
(b)  The Borrower shall:
(i)   have or cause to have the records and accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion;
(ii)   furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such
year the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested, including
a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the statements of expenditures submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals; and


﻿-8-
(iii)  furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the follet i= -additional events are specified:
(a) Any of the Project States shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)  As a result of events which have occurred aftei the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that any of the Project States will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the Project States,
and is legally binding upon them in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 3.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Director,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                Telex:
ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in tIe District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By  6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
the Credit
Allocated
(Expressed               % of
in SDR                Expenditures
Category               Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1)   Civil works             76,700,000          90%
(2)   Furniture,              72,300,000          100% of foreign
equipment,                                  expenditures, 100%
vehicles,                                   of local expendi-
and books and                               tures (ex-factory
instructional                               cost) and 80% of
materials                                   local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)   Consultants'             6,200,000          100%
services
and training
(4)   Incremental             40,400,000          80% of local
operating                                   expenditures
costs                                       incurred until
June 30, 1995,
and 65% of local
expenditures
incurred
thereafter
(5)   Unallocated             17,900,000
TOTAL                   213,500,000


﻿- 12 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
(c)   the  term  "Incremental  operating  costs" means   the
incremental costs for (i) salaries of additional staff, and (ii)
supplies as may be agreed to by the Association.
.3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 2,100,000
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after September 30, 1990.


﻿- 13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's
National Policy on Education and its Ten-Year Technician Education
Investment Program (1990-1999) and to specifically: (a) expand the
capacity of the polytechnic system; (b) improve the quality of
polytechnic programs; and (c) improve the efficiency of the manage-
ment and operation of the polytechnic system at both the Center and
State levels.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Expansion of Capacity
1.    Construction,  furnishing  and   equipping  of  polytechnics
including academic buildings, hostels, staff and faculty housing,
workshops, libraries, laboratories and other necessary amenities.
2.    Staffing of polytechnics.
3.    Introduction and development of diploma, post-diploma, and
continuing education programs in new and emerging technologies at
polytechnics.
4.    Increasing facilities and opportunities for women at all
polytechnics, development of women's residential polytechnics, and
granting of scholarships for girls.
5.    Expansion of the community polytechnic program.
6.    Expansion of selected programs in conventional engineering
disciplines at the polytechnics.
Part B:     Improvement of Quality
1.    Improvement of facilities and works including construction,
furnishing, equipping and staffing of selected polytechnics.
2.    Initiation, strengthening and expansion of teacher training
programs and career development opportunities for teachers of the
polytechnics in the Project States and the Union Territory.


﻿-14 -
3.    Improvement and expansion of curriculum development activities
and research programs including environmental orientation.
4.    Modernization of diploma programs through the replacement of
obsolete equipment and materials in classrooms, laboratories,
workshops and other academic and instructional facilities.
5.    Development and implementation of maintenance programs for
equipment and facilities.
Part C:     Improvement of Efficiency
1.    Deployment of additional staff and the provision of equipment,
vehicles, books and other materials.
2.    Strengthening of the Directorates and Boards of Technical
Education in the Project States and the Union Territory.
3.    Introducing greater   academic  autonomy  and   delegation  of
enhanced financial powers to a selected number of polytechnics.
4.    Establishment of Industry-Institute Interaction programs at
the polytechnics.
5.    Encouraging internal revenue generation in the polytechnics of
the Project States and the Union Territory.
Part D:     Training and Studies
Provision of local and foreign consultants, training and study
tours related to the Project including award of fellowships and
scholarships for the purpose; and undertaking of studies related to
the Project and selected in consultation with the Association.
T   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2),
(3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized   Allocation" means   an  amount
equivalent to $13,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of    the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account     at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 16 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documer: and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(i)   if, at any time, the Association      shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be
made by the Borrower    directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts of
the Project, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.


﻿- 17 -
(b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant  to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETAiRY


