Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 16162
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL II)
(LOAN NO. 3347-HU)
November 22, 1996
Country Operations Division
Central Europe Departnent
Europe and Central Asia
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othenmise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit
Hungarian Forint (HUF)
Average exchange rates (HUF per US$)
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
59.10  63.20  74.74  78.99  91.93  105.1  125.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBI           Central Budgetary Institution
CEM           Country Economic Memorandum
CMEA          Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
EBF           Extrabudgetary Fund
HUF           Hungarian Forint
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
JEXIM         Export-Import Bank of Japan
IMF           Intemational Monetary Fund
OECD          Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
SAL           Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SOE           State-owned enterprise
US            United States
Vice President:      Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director:            Jean-Michel Severino, EC2DR
Division Chief:      Michel Noel, EC2CO
Staff Member:        Witold Orlowski, EC2CO



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL II)
(LOAN NO. 3347-HU)
CONTENTS
Preface                                                                            i
Evaluation Summary                                                                ii
PART I.       Project Implementation Assessment                                    1
A.    Background and Project Objectives                                     I
B.     Achievement of Project Objectives                                    3
C.     Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project       6
D.    Project Sustainability                                                7
E.     Bank Performance                                                    7
F.     Borrower Performance                                                 8
G.    Assessment of Outcome                                                 9
H.    Future Operations                                                    10
I.     Key Lessons Learned                                                 10
PART II.       Statistical Tables                                                 11
Table 1:       Summary of Assessments                                      12
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits                                   13
Table 3:      Project Timetable                                            14
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursments: Cumulative Estimated and Actual    14
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation                   15
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation                         19
Table 7:       Studies Included in Project                                 19
Table 8A:     Project Costs                                                19
Table 8B:      Project Financing                                           19
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits                                  19
Table 10:      Status of Legal Covenants                                   20
Table 1 1:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements       21
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                 21
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions                                     21
Appendixes:
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR
B. Second Tranche Release Document
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.  l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL II)
(LOAN NO. 3347-HU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Structural Adjustment
Loan in Hungary, for which a loan in the amount of US$250 million equivalent was approved on
June 18, 1991 and made effective on July 19, 1991.
The loan was made to the National Bank of Hungary. The loan was closed on December
31, 1994 (the original closing date was December 31, 1992). The first tranche, released upon
effectiveness, was fully disbursed by December 31, 1991. The second tranche was released on
March 30, 1992. The third tranche and a balance of US$75 million equivalent was cancelled on
December 31, 1994.
Cofinancing of the project was provided by the Export-Import Bank of Japan in the
amount of US$150 million equivalent.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Witold M.Orlowski (EC2CO) of the Europe and Central
Asia region and reviewed at the time by Mr. Michel Noel, Division Chief (EC2CO), Ms. Jane
Loos, Project Advisor (EC2DR), Mr. Luca Barbone, Principal Economist (EC2CO), Mr. Jean-
Jacques Dethier and Ms. Ilham Zurayk (EC2CO). The borrower provided comments that are
included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during a Bank mission to Hungary in February 1996.
It is based on material in the project files and other related Bank documents.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL II)
(LOAN NO. 3347-HU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Hungary has been implementing market-oriented economic reforms and trying to liberalize
its economy since 1968. It was only after a peaceful transition to democracy in 1989-90, however,
that the process of building a full-fledged market economy was dramatically accelerated.
Economic performance in 1990-1991 showed that further acceleration of structural reforms was
necessary to reach a break-even point and to start the economic growth. In 1991, the Government
prepared a medium-term economic program, consistent with a vision of creating a market economy
integrated with the European Union (Government of Hungary, Memorandum of Economic
Transformation and Medium-Term Policies, 1991). The program represented a considerable
deepening and acceleration of reforms. The aim of the program was to transform Hungary into a
fill-fledged market economy and to achieve sustainable economic growth.
2.    The Bank's Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) of US$250 million equivalent
was approved in support of this reform program. The loan received co-financing of $150 million
from the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM). The Government's medium-term economic
program was also supported by a three year Extended Arrangement with the IMF of SDR 1,114
million.
Project Objectives, Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The program aimed at creating the basis for sustainable economic growth by completing
the necessary market infrastructure (legal and institutional), stimulating a supply response, and
eliminating potential risks of internal and external imbalances. To achieve these targets, SAL II
supported the Government's program in four main areas:
(a) reducing the role of the state in the economy (reduction of administrative intervention in
resource allocation, the size of the state-owned enterprise sector, transfers and taxes);
(b) intensifying competition (import and price liberalization, developing strict bankruptcy law);
(c) reforming the financial sector, within the framework of a new Banking Law (liberalization,
improved prudential regulations, and enhanced supervision); and
(d) establishing a financially viable and well targeted social safety net.
4.    The operation can be judged as only partially successful. The results were mixed due to
the inconsistent implementation of the agreed policies and due to unfavorable internal and external
conditions, many of which were beyond government control. In some crucial areas important
achievements were obtained. During 1991-94, Hungary made considerable progress in liberalizing
the economy and in creating competitive markets for products and factors. The basic legal and
institutional market infrastructure was put in place. On the other hand, significant shortfalls in the
execution of the medium-term program, particularly the slow path of reforms of the public sector
and a loss of macroeconomic discipline, prevented Hungary from taking full advantage of these
achievements.



- iii -
5.     Macroeconomic developments in Hungary since the beginning of the SAL II operation can
be divided into two phases. During the first one, from 1991 to 1994, macroeconomic disequilibria
continuously deteriorated, while the pace of structural reforms slowed down. During the second
phase, from 1995 to the present, successful stabilization as well as an acceleration of privatization
and structural reforms resulted in the rapid decrease of the size of the State (through fast
privatization and control over public spending), bringing Hungary much closer to fulfilling targets
of the reform program supported by the SAL II. However, crucial structural reforms, especially in
the public sector, still lie ahead.
6.    Despite these shortcomings, the achievements generated by the reform program supported
by the SAL II are likely to be sustainable if remaining structural reforms are properly addressed.
Significant progress has already been achieved during 1995-96.  The stabilization program
launched in March 1995 reversed unfavorable economic trends and helped to reduce
macroeconomic disequilibria. The Government's commitment to reforms was also confirmed by a
new strategy towards SOEs that resulted in a radical acceleration of privatization in the second half
of 1995. After having established effective control over public spending, the Governnent is
preparing an extensive program encompassing structural reform of the public sector, and reforms
aimed at enhancing competition and restructuring of the enterprise and financial sector. Two
operations currently being prepared in support of this program are the Enterprise and Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) and the Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL).
Key Lessons Learned
7.    The Hungarian experience with implementing reforms supported by the SAL II provides
important lessons:
(i) Prudent macroeconomic management is crucial to the success of transformation. The
Government's failure to maintain its commitment to tight fiscal policy resulted in a vicious
circle of high fiscal deficits, high current account deficits, excessive taxation and low growth.
In the absence of a stable macroeconomic environment that allows for sustainable growth no
structural reform program will be completely successful.
(ii) Partial implementation of a reform package may not allow for overall satisfactory results.
Although the SAL II was successful in identifying areas of crucial importance for the
structural transformation of the economy, the agreed program was not irnplemented with the
same speed in all areas. Radical liberalization was not able to compensate for a delay in public
sector reforms. The important operational message from the SAL II is that more emphasis
should be put on the balance in implementing reforms, as a success in one area does not
necessarily compensate for a slippage in the other.
(iii) Reforms of the public sector in transition economies are even more difficult to implement
than the initial liberalization and building of compefitive markets. This is mainly because of
the powerful political and social factors behind the existing structures of the public sector.
The reforms are risky from a political and social point of view but crucial for long-term
economic growth.
(iv) Transition economies remain strongly vulnerable to the external environment. This is
particularly true of Central and Eastern European economies, that are heavily dependent on
European Union markets. The analysis of risk factors, and more particularly of the European
dimension of economic processes in this region, should be enhanced.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL II)
(LOAN NO. 3347-HU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background and Project Objectives
1.    Hungary has been implementing market-oriented economic reforms and trying to liberalize
its economy since 1968. It was only after a peaceful transition to democracy in 1989-90, however,
that the process of building a full-fledged market economy was dramatically accelerated. Some
important elements of the legal and institutional market infrastructure already existed in 1989.
Foreign trade and prices were partially liberalized, VAT and PIT were introduced in 1988, the
management of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) was given some autonomy in decision making, and
the private sector started its operations on a limited scale. Although the initial partial reforms
placed Hungary well ahead of other Central European countries, the economy was still dominated
by the state (both through direct ownership of assets and through massive income redistribution),
remained strongly dependent on CMEA trade, and carried a heavy foreign debt burden.
2.    The slowdown of exports and GDP growth during the 1980s and the growing foreign debt
burden brought Hungary to the brink of insolvency by 1989. The stabilization program launched in
1990 maintained Hungary's creditworthiness in international financial markets and opened the door
for a more profound reform package. This program was launched in mid-1990 and aimed at
creating the basis for a predominantly private market economy. The reform package was
supported by the first Structural Adjustment Loan granted to Hungary (SAL I). SAL I amounted
to US$200 million equivalent and was co-financed (US$200 million) by the Export-Import Bank of
Japan. The loan became effective on July 3, 1990 and was fully disbursed by March 1991. The
operation was regarded as generally successful (SAL I Project Completion Report, No 11794,
1993).
3.    The implementation of the reform  package supported by the SAL I led to some
considerable achievements during 1990-1991. Extemal and intemal equilibria were reestablished
and Hungary's creditworthiness improved, while the private sector started to grow vigorously and
foreign trade was re-oriented towards Western markets. However, optimistic expectations about
the fast effects of the reforms and a quick uptum in output trends proved unrealistic. First, the
extemal shocks connected with the CMEA trade breakup in 1991 and the resulting sharp terms of
trade deterioration were much stronger than expected.  Second, the process of enhancing
management and restructuring SOEs was quite slow, despite increased pressure from import and
private sector competition, and despite the reduction of subsidies. Third, although the budget was
successfully balanced in 1990, the structural roots of the fiscal problems remained. They included
a huge public debt, massive tax evasion caused by a combination of high tax rates and low
efficiency of tax collection, quasi-fiscal deficits accumulated by state-owned enterprises, and an
unsustainable level of social transfers (particularly in the case of the pension system, due to
unfavorable demographic trends, and some effects of growing unemployment: shrinking labor
income, and an explosive growth of disability pensioners). The adjustment of the public sector was
very slow and the size of the welfare state remained excessive.
4.    Economic performance in 1990-1991 showed that an acceleration of structural reforms
was necessary achieve sustainable growth. Although some positive economic trends, such as the
radical current account improvement, fast growth of convertible exports, and a surge in foreign



-2 -
investment, already appeared in 1990-91, GDP was still shrinking and inflation exceeded 30%. In
response to these developments, the Government prepared in 1991 a medium-term economic
program, consistent with a vision of creating a market economy integrated with the European
Union (Government of Hungary, Memorandum of Economic Transformation and Medium-Term
Policies, 1991). The program aimed at a considerable deepening and acceleration of reforms. Its
target was to transform Hungary into a full-fledged market economy and to achieve sustainable
economic growth. The main components of the program were: (a) completing the creation of
competitive markets for products and factors; (b) pushing decisively towards privatization of the
economy and a reduction in the scope of state intervention in the economy; (c) maintaining
external and internal equilibria and creating a more growth-friendly environment; and (d) reducing
the role of the state in income redistribution and creating an efficient social net to protect the poor.
5.    Specific measures of the medium-term economic program were targeted at stimulating a
supply response. These included: acceleration of foreign trade liberalization and opening up of the
economy to external competition (with a target of exposing at least 80% of industrial production to
import competition by 1993), further liberalization of prices, fast privatization of state assets (with
a target of privatizing 35-40% of state assets in the competitive sector by 1993), strengthening
bankruptcy and anti-trust procedures, further liberalization of the financial system connected with
improved prudential regulatiorn, supervision, and restructuring of banks. Measures targeted at
reducing the size of the state, increasing the public sector efficiency and creating a growth-friendly
environment included: reduction of subsidies from 9% of GDP in 1990 to 4% in 1993, reduction
and rationalization of transfers to central budgetary institutions (CBIs) and extra-budgetary funds
(EBFs), preparing reform plans for the pension system and health care financing. The revenue-side
component of the program included a reduction in both direct and indirect top tax rates. Public
sector reforms should have led to a significant reduction in the size of the consolidated budget as a
share of GDP (from 57% in 1990 to 46% in 1993) and to the elimination of the fiscal deficit over a
period of 2 years. These measures would have helped reduce inflation, encourage economic
growth, and maintain external equilibrium and access to international capital markets (the
macroeconomic targets are shown in Table 1, p.5).
6.    The Bank's second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) for US$250 million equivalent
supported this reform program. The loan received co-financing of $150 million from the Export-
Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM). The Government's medium-term economic program was also
supported by a three year Extended Arrangement with the IMF for SDR 1,114 million.
7.    The program aimed at creating the basis for sustainable economic growth by completing
the necessary market infrastructure (legal and institutional), stimulating the supply response, and
eliminating potential causes of internal and external imbalances. SAL II concentrated on:
(a) Reducing the role of the state in the economy. Key actions agreed under the SAL II included
reduction in state budget subsidies by 4 per cent of GDP over 1991-92; reduction of transfers to
central budgetary institutions (CBIs) and extra budgetary funds (EBFs) in real terms in 1992 and
implementation of an agreed program for a further reduction of transfers to CBIs and EBFs (no
specific quantitative target was agreed under SAL II), reduction in the number of unregulated
EBFs (the Government's target was to eliminate at least 7 funds); broadening of the Profit Tax
base by eliminating some exemptions, and reduction of effective rates by introducing a new
depreciation system in line with true economic costs; broadening of the PIT base by including some
types of income and reduction of the top PIT rate (the Government's target was to reduce the top
rate from 48 to 40%/6); gradual elimination of the zero rate for VAT, reduction of the top rate (no
specific target agreed), introduction of a 100% VAT rebate on capital goods.
(b) Intensification of competition. Key actions included eliminating import licensing for more



- 3 -
than 80% of industral goods and relaxing the import quota system to cover no more than 10% of
industrial products; privatizing the Hungarian Vegetable Oil Company; transferring district heating
price setting authority to local governments and eliminating household energy subsidies from the
central budget; undertaking a commitment to implement the new Bankruptcy Law.
(c) Financial sector reform. The key action was the Government's commitment to implement the
new Banking Law that would provide for an effective prudential regulatory framework (presented
to Parliament in 1991) and to develop in 1991 a satisfactory strategy to assess and deal with
weaknesses of the banking sector.
(d) Establishing a financially viable and well targeted social safety net. Key actions included
preparing and presenting to Parliament draft legislation on the new pension system (with tightened
eligibility criteria and a higher retirement age), and the new system of health care financing (the
Government's target was to reduce social security expenditures as a share of GDP below 1990
level of 17%, and maintain an appropriate financial balance of the social security fund, while
reducing the contribution rate by 2-3 percent by 1993).
(e) Macroeconomic performance. Macroeconomic targets included eliminating the budget deficit
till 1993, reducing the current account deficit below the FDI inflow, steadily reducing the external
debt to GDP ratio, reducing the CPI inflation to 13% in 1995, and achieving satisfactory growth
rates of exports and GDP in 1992-93 (see Table 1, p.5).
8.    The objectives of the program were clear and precise, although, in retrospect, sometimes
too optimistic in assessing what could be achieved in a relatively short time. In the area of pension
and health care financing, given the very early stage of reforms, required actions could have only a
preparatory character (creating draft legislation).
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
9.     Overall, the operation can be judged as only partly successful. The results were mixed due
to the inconsistent implementation of the agreed policies and due to unfavorable internal and
external conditions. In some crucial areas important achievements were obtained. During 1991-
94, Hungary made considerable progress in liberalizing the economy and in creating competitive
markets for products and factors. The basic legal and institutional market infrastructure was put
in place. On the other hand, significant shortfalls in the medium-term program, particularly the
slow progress of public sector reforms and loss of macroeconomic discipline, prevented Hungary
from taking full advantage of these achievements.
10.   Liberalizing and enhancing competition. The record of implementing market reforms was
generally positive. Hungary moved rapidly to liberalize imports, domestic prices, and to approach
economic cost levels for administered prices of electricity and gas. The subsidies' reduction target
was almost achieved (missing the target by only 0.3% of GDP in 1993). Development of a
bankruptcy system as a vehicle for enterprise restructuring was gradual. A tough bankruptcy law
introduced in 1992 included, among other features, mandatory filing for bankruptcy by firms with
arrears exceeding 90 days and an automatic moratorium on debt service. As a result, the law led to
a dramatic increase in the number of filings for bankruptcy and liquidation while the procedures
remained costly and time consuming, leaving room for abuse and adverse resolutions (e.g., asset
stripping).  Amendments introduced to the law in September 1993 removed some automatic
triggers and resulted in a sharp fall in the number of filings, leaving more room for the debt
conciliation. The Government is currently preparing new amendments to improve creditors
incentive in the bankruptcy and liquidation procedure and to make the process less costly.
11.   Privatization program (supported also by the Enterprise Reform Loan, ERL, see Report



-4 -
No.P-5589-HU). The initial Government strategy focused on fast privatization of part of the state
assets, mainly small and medium sized enterprises, and strengthening of the governance of big
industrial firms. The overall privatization target agreed under the ERL (privatization of 12% of
state assets in the competitive sector, a more realistic target than the one set in the medium-term
economic program of 1991) was met by October 1993.  Less success was achieved in
strengthening the governance of SOEs. Gross losses of the sector peaked at 14% of GDP in 1992.
From 1993, losses started to diminish but remained relatively large until recently (less than 5% of
GDP in 1995). Eventually, the Government made a decision to change its strategy towards large
SOEs and to implement a radical privatization program (the new strategy was successfully
launched in the second half of 1995).
12.   Financial sector reforms. The Government's ability to reform the banks was seriously
impaired during 1991-94 by weak governance, slow privatization, and by deficiency of the
regulatory framework (introduction of the enhanced supervision reforms and prudential
regulations, agreed under the SAL II, was delayed). After the sharp fall in output, the financial
situation of many Hungarian banks became critical. Instead of addressing the roots of the problem,
the Government concentrated on several bank recapitalizations with a heavy cost to the budget (the
total cost was equal to 7.5% of GDP). Despite the Bank's advice, these recapitalizations were
implemented without the necessary changes in bank management and incentives, and in an
environment of passive bank supervision. As these policies failed to solve problems of the
Hungarian financial sector, a new reform program, which stressed robust privatization and
restructuring, as well as improved regulatory framework, was launched in 1995.
13.   Public sector reforms implemented during 1991-94 failed to make the transfer system
financially viable. Problems connected with reforming the public sector, although acknowledged
by the Government, were more severe than expected due to strong political and social constraints.
The health care and the pension system were separated, pensions were indexed to wages, and some
social benefits were frozen in nominal terms (e.g.family allowance). However, as implementation
of short-term measures aimed at improving the financial viability of the social safety net, such as
raising the retirement age, changing the pension benefit formula to discourage early retirement,
controlling the flow of new disability pensions, and shifting a larger part of sick pay financing to
employers, were postponed, the target of reducing the role of the State in income redistribution was
missed. The share of household transfers in GDP increased by 3 percent during 1991-94 (the
Government's medium-term target was to reduce it), and the process of reducing tax rates, which
started in 1992, was reversed in 1994.
14.     The macroeconomic outcome of the program was far worse than expected, due to a
combination of the inevitable transitional recession, unfavorable external conditions, and the slow
path of implementing some of the crucial reforms, particularly in the public sector. Table 1 shows
a comparison of the 1991-93 macroeconomic projections to the actual outcome. The transitional
recession was much deeper than anybody expected at the time. Inevitable stabilization measures
accompanying the transition and changes in demand structure, combined with supply shocks,
caused GDP to contract by 18% between 1989 and 1993, mainly due to the shrinking output of
state owned industrial enterprises. The Hungarian economy started to grow again only in 1994,
while the Government, the Bank and the IMF looked for a modest revival already in 1992.
Expectations that increased competition from imports and the private sector, as well as the
financial discipline imposed on SOEs by the bankruptcy law would force the SOEs to restructure
fast proved to be too optimistic and the supply response of the Hungarian economy during 1991-93
was weak.



-  -
14.   The       external    Table 1 Hungary 1991-93: Macroeconomic Projections
enviromnent  was  highly           and Actual Outcomes
unfavorable during 1991-                          Targets/Projection?s    Actual outcome
93. After the CMEA trade                         1991   1992   1993   1991   1992   1993
collapse in 1990-91, a new    Growth rates in %
external shock  came  in    Real GDP            -8 to -6  1-3   3-5   -11.9  -3.1   -0.6
1993. A deep recession in    Domestic demand      ..    0-1    1-3   -9.1   -3.6   9.9
1993.m Aurodee rencsions i  Export volume       -8to-6   5-7    6-8   -13.9   2.1  -10.1
Western Europe, sanctions    Import volume                1-3   3-5   -6.1   0.2   20.2
imnposed by the UN against    Consumer prices    33-35    21     13    35.0   23.0   22.5
Yugoslavia,   and   the      As% of GDP
unfavorable      weather    Consolidated budget
conditions in  1992-1993,      Balance           -1.5   -0.5   0.0   -2.1   -5.4   -6.6
(leading to a sharp decline    Revenues           ..    48       46    51.9   55.2   54.9
in the agricultural output     Expenditures       ..    48.5   46    54.0   60.6   61.5
and   hurting  traditional    Gross national      ..    22    23    18.1   15.3   10.6
Hungarian food exports),   savngs
resulted in a significant fall    Current account  -3.6    -2    0      1.1   0.9   -9.0
I Gross external debt    68-70  65-67  61-63   67.8   57.6   63.7
in exports in 1993.  The       Targets for 1991 according to SAL II; projections and targets for 1992-93
size of the trade shock of    according to SAL II and "Memorandum of Economic Transformation and
1993 was comparable to        Medium-Term Policies"
the effects of the CMEA
trade collapse in 1991 (17% fall in export volume). While the effects of the CMEA collapse could
have been mitigated by trade reorientation towards other markets, no such possibility existed in
1993.
15.   The poor macroeconomic performance of Hungary during 1991-93 was also due to
internal factors, including the excessive gradualism in reforming the Hungarian public sector. In
the absence of breakthrough reforms, the public finance situation rapidly deteriorated. The
combination of excessive government spending with declining GDP resulted in large fiscal deficits
(over 6% of GDP), draining the economy's resources. The problem was aggravated by an
unpredictable instability in the savings' behavior of households. After a strong initial upward shift
in saving rates in 1991-92, leading to an optimistic assessment of the internal sources of financing
growth, an equally violent collapse took place in 1993. Shrinking domestic savings combined with
persistently high budget deficits led, over time, to a drastic deterioration in the external balance:
domestic demand expansion in 1993-94 was accompanied by a rapid growth in the trade and
current account deficit to unsustainable levels.
16.   Although some factors that influenced negatively the macroeconomic outcome of the
reform program during 1991-93 were outside the Government's control (the transitional recession,
external shocks), policy errors and delays in implementing necessary reforms made the situation
worse. The Government failed to achieve its target of reducing to 46% the share of budget
expenditures in GDP (instead, the share exceeded 60%) and to balance the budget. A more radical
strategy of privatization and restructuring banks and enterprises could have led to a stronger
supply response and to a smaller decline in output. Finally, with the existence of large fiscal
deficits, it was not possible to meet the inflation reduction target. When economic growth
eventually resumed in 1994, its pattern was unsustainable (2-3% GDP growth was accompanied
by a current account deficit of about 9%/o). A strong stabilization package, launched in March
1995, became inevitable to avoid the external insolvency risk and to stabilize the economy.
However, such a fiscal adjustment must be accompanied by profound structural reforms to make
the new equilibrium sustainable over the long-term.



-6 -
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   Implementation Record. SAL II was designed as a three-tranche operation, with a first
tranche of $100 million, released upon effectiveness, and two tranches of $75 million each. There
were no Board presentation conditions, as the Government had already implemented a serious
package of reforms prior to the loan negotiations. The majority of measures were connected with
price and trade liberalization rather than with reforns of the public sector. Such an asymmetry in
the reform process persisted during loan implementation.
18.   Almost all conditions for release of the second tranche were met by March 1992. The
macroeconomic outcome of 1991 looked favorable (except for the bigger than expected GDP fall,
small slippage in the subsidies reduction program, and a slightly higher than targeted fiscal deficit).
Progress in the liberalization of imports and prices and the reduction of various budget
expenditures (subsidies, transfers to CBIs and EBFs) was satisfactory. Provisions for reducing the
PIT and effective profit tax rates were included in the 1992 budget, and the zero VAT rate was
gradually eliminated (the top VAT rate reduction condition was temporarily waived due to some
fiscal slippage in 1991). Preparatory work on the pension reform included the Parliamentary
decision to reform the Social Security Fund (1991) and to index pensions to wages. Given the
obvious social constraints, the Bank judged this progress as satisfactory despite the lack of
decision on the retirement age increase. The second tranche was released in March 1992.
19.    By the expected time of the third tranche release (September 1992) the macroeconomic
situation in Hungary, particularly the fiscal balance, drastically deteriorated. The progress in
reduction of transfers to CBIs and EBFs was slow and the number of EBFs was not reduced. The
health care financing reform was delayed, and the condition to increase the employer's co-financing
of sick pay to 3 weeks was not met. The other conditions were fulfilled: the Hungarian Vegetable
Oil Company was successfully privatized, the household energy subsidy was eliminated from the
1992 budget, and some further trade liberalization took place. In the Bank's assessment, the
rapidly deteriorating macroeconomic performance was the main obstacle to the third tranche
release. The release date was extended three times, and finally the third tranche was canceled in
December 1994 due to delays in implementation of the agreed medium term action plan to reduce
the budget deficit.
20.   Major Factors Affecting the Project. The most important factors not generally subject to
Government control that substantially affected achievement of the program objectives included (i)
unfavorable external conditions that hurt Hungarian exports, (ii) the unexpected depth of the
transitional recession, (iii) slow adjustment of SOEs to the new market environment, and (iv) social
resistance to changes in the public sector. The last factor is crucially important, as it strongly
contributed to the slow path of pension and health care financing reforms.
21.    The most important factors generally subject to Government control that substantially
affected achievement of the program objectives included the failure to control fiscal deficits and to
introduce necessary reforms of the social safety net (and particularly the failure to implement
unpopular measures, such as the retirement age increase or employer's co-payments to sick pay).
The efforts to control public spending were not strong enough to secure a satisfactory reduction of
transfers to CBIs and EBFs during 1991-94. The commitment to market reforms allowed the
Government to realize liberalization targets, but was not sufficient to sustain the momentum of the
process of privatizing and restructuring the large loss-making SOEs (although privatization targets
agreed under the ERL were met).



-7 -
D. Project Sustainability
22.   The achievements generated by the reform program supported by the SAL II are likely to
be sustainable if shortcomings of the program are properly addressed. This would require the
implementation long-delayed restructuring of the public sector, including reforms of the pensions,
health financing, and education. Significant progress has been already achieved during 1995-96.
The stabilization program launched in March 1995 reversed the unfavorable economic trends and
helped to reduce macroeconomic disequilibria. After having established effective control over
public spending (the share of budget expenditures in GDP is expected to fall from 62% in 1994 to
50% in 1996), the Government is preparing an extensive program of structural reforms for the
public sector. The Government's commitment to reforms was also confirmed by a new strategy
towards SOEs that resulted in a radical acceleration of privatization in the second half of 1995.
23.   Implementation of the profound structural reform program aimed at creating a financially
viable pension system, reforming other important components of public spending (mainly health
and education, together with improved targeting of the social assistance), should eliminate the
major shortcomings of reforms implemented during 1991-94. Parallel implementation of reforms
aimed at enhancing competition and restructuring firms (including bank supervision and prudential
regulations, improved bankruptcy and liquidation procedures, and continued fast privatization)
should address problems in the enterprise and financial sectors. Two operations currently being
prepared in support of this reform program are the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan (EFSAL) and the Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL).
E. Bank Performance
24.   The operation was carefully prepared in close cooperation with the Hungarian
Government.  Extensive discussions with the Government, experience gained during the
implementation of the SAL I, developing knowledge about the economics of transformation (albeit
still incomplete in 1991), and estimates of the CMEA disintegration effects enabled the Bank to
identify areas of crucial importance for the success of medium-term economic reforms.
25.   The input for the initial design, further monitoring, and the evaluation of SAL II
implementation came from the relevant economic and sectoral work accomplished during 1990-95.
A review of the social policy framework and issues was initiated in the context of the SAL I, and
was used as a basis for policy recommendations of the SAL II (Reform of social policy and
expenditures, Report No.10647). A broader analysis of the public sector issues was presented in
the report on issues in public sector decentralization (1992, Reform and decentralization of the
public sector, Report No.10061). Another report, prepared in 1991, assessed the CMEA trade
collapse and its effects on the Hungarian economy (The demise of the CMEA: implications for
Hungary, Report No.9074). The conclusions of the report were crucial for designing the
macroeconomic framework of the SAL II. The Industrial Sector Review (1991, Report No.8843)
helped to identify the main issues in the Hungarian corporate sector and allowed for both SAL II
implementation monitoring and elaboration of the Enterprise Reform Loan aimed at accelerating
privatization and restructuring of SOEs.
26.   The Bank authorized the release of the second tranche in March 1992. At that time,
macroeconomic indicators of Hungary were still satisfactory. The fiscal deficit level remained
under control, and the current account was in surplus. The slippage in trade liberalization was
negligible, and other conditions were generally fulfilled (with some exemptions in the case of the



-8 -
pension legislation). The decision to release the second tranche was justified since majority of
formal conditions were met and the macroeconomic outlook remained positive.
27.    By the expected time of release of the third tranche (September 1992) the macro-economic
situation of Hungary had dramatically changed. During the period of delay in the third tranche
release (September 92-December 1994) all macroeconomic indicators drastically deteriorated. The
budget deficit exceeded 6% and the current account deficit reached 9% of GDP. As the
Government postponed introduction of the agreed medium term plan to reduce the fiscal deficit, the
third tranche was canceled and the loan was closed after consultations with the Government and the
National Bank of Hungary. Although the third tranche was canceled mainly on a basis of the
unsatisfactory macroeconomic performance, some of the other key reform actions to be taken were
also postponed (comprehensive pension and health financing reform). The decision to cancel the
third tranche and to concentrate efforts on the future operations, to be implemented only after the
Government implemented a major adjustment package, was appropriate.
28.   The Bank's performance was highly satisfactory in project identification, preparation
assistance, and appraisal. Given the limited knowledge of the dynamics of transformation at the
time of project preparation, errors made in projections were unavoidable (para 13). As further
developments proved, the emphasis of the SAL II on public sector reform, fiscal stability,
privatization and financial sector development was fully warranted.   Despite growing
implementation problems, the Bank's performance during the supervision was satisfactory. The
third tranche release date was extended three times to give the Government time to introduce
necessary medium-term adjustment program. The eventual decision to cancel the third tranche was
appropriate given the Government's failure to implement agreed fiscal measures (see letter of the
Ministry of Finance, June 16, 1993).
F. Borrower Performance
29.   Preparation.  Borrower performance during preparation was highly satisfactory. The
Government, in collaboration with the World Bank staff, designed a medium term reform program
that correctly identified areas of crucial importance for the economic transition.
30.   Implementation. Assessment of the performance of the Borrower in implementing the
project is more difficult. In some areas, the reforms agreed under the SAL II were introduced
according to, or ahead of the agreed timetable. This is the case with liberalizing foreign trade and
prices, reducing subsidies, and meeting privatization targets. The medium term reform program
was delayed or implemented incompletely in the areas of pension reform, health financing reform,
and reducing transfers to CBIs and EBFs. In the case of tax reform (PIT, VAT, Profit Tax) the
agreed measures were initially implemented but then partly reversed. The main setback to the
program came from the excessive fiscal deficits. During 1993-94 the Government practically lost
control over the size of the deficits. This lack of the fiscal discipline, in turn, resulted in the third
tranche cancellation. Therefore, the Borrower performance in implementing the project should be
considered, on balance, as mixed.
G. Assessment of Outcome
31.    Macroeconomic developments in Hungary since the beginning of the SAL II operation can
be divided into two phases. During the first one, from 1991 to 1994, macroeconomic disequilibria
continuously deteriorated, while the path of structural reforms slowed down. During the second
phase, from 1995, the successful stabilization and acceleration of privatization and structural
reforms led to a serious improvement in macroeconomic stability.



-9-
32.   The uneven pattern of implementation of reforms between 1991-94 led to mixed results.
Continuous efforts to create competitive markets free of administrative intervention and to promote
private sector development resulted in an increase in the private sector's share in GDP (60% in
1994). Exports were successfully re-oriented towards the West (exports to OECD currently
accounts for more than 70% of total), recovering in 1994 both from the CMEA disintegration and
from the decline experienced in 1993. Fixed capital investment, particularly in the private sector,
started to grow rapidly in 1994. Hungary has attracted a sizable flow of foreign direct investment,
amounting to $12 billion (end 1995).
33.   Unfortunately, these achievements were accompanied by significant shortfalls. Although
the privatization target for 1993 was reached, by the end of 1994 almost two third of initial state
assets still required privatization and restructuring (table 2). Reforms of public sector were
delayed. As a result, the share of total expenditure to GDP increased from 54% in 1991 to about
60% in 1993-94 (transfers to households increased from 20% to 23%), about 1/3 above the
program target. The combination of high expenditures and the recession caused fiscal deficits to
explode to 6-7% of GDP, slowing down the reduction of inflation, raising interest rates, and
increasing the domestic debt burden. The internal imbalance, together with falling domestic private
savings, created serious balance of    Table 2 Outcome of the reforoplram
payments problems through the "twin                           1991   1993   1993   1995
deficit" effect. The current account                                        ta1rget
deterio-rated to  dangerously  high    Privatization of state assete)  35.)  35-40   51
levels (9%  of GDP in 1993-94),    Budget expenditure         54.0   61.5   46.0   55.0
decreasing             Hungary's    Budget deficito)           -2.1   -6.6   0.0   -3.7
creditworthiness (the medium-term   Current Account            1.1   -9.1   0.0   -6.0
economic  program   target  was    GDP growth                 -11.9  -0.6   3-5    1.5
achieving  internal  and  external    * As % of initial State equity holdings by privatization agencies
equilibria by 1993).                b) End 1994  teIncluding privatization revenue
34.   The situation changed dramatically in 1995. To avoid further deterioration of the frage
external position, the Government adopted a strong adjustment package in March 1995. Macro-
economic stabilization accompanied by acceleration of structural reforms resulted in a rapid
decrease in the size of the State (through the fast privatization and control over public spending),
bringing Hungary much closer to fulfilling targets of the reform program supported by the SAL II
(Table 2). However, crucial structural reforms, especially in the public sector, still lie ahead.
35.    SAL II was an important operation that helped Hungary during its transition towards a
market economy. The operation was only partially successful, due to the inconsistency in
implementation of agreed policies combined with much worse than initially expected external and
internal conditions. The outcome was unsatisfactory in some areas, in particular public sector
reform, where the medium term reform program was delayed or implemented incompletely. Slow
adjustment and much stronger than expected inertia in the public sector, together with slow
economic growth, resulted in strong internal and external imbalances that eventually made the
growth pattern unsustainable.
H. Future Operations
36.   During 1993-94, the rapid macroeconomic deterioration and the considerable slowdown of
structural reforms prevented the Bank from maintaining a strong program of financial support to
Hungary. The new emphasis of the Bank will be on the program of the second phase of structural
reforms (Country Assistance Strategy, 1995, Report No.14486). These reforms should address the
problems that were not solved under the program supported by SAL nI, especially financial sector
reform, and Social Security reform.



-10-
37.   The main areas that should be addressed in future operations include a major pension
system reform that would allow, over time, for a reduction in the extremely high contribution rates,
improvement of the health care financing system to make it financially viable (by hospital
restructuring and increasing co-payments), improvement of tax administration efficiency and
managmet of public spending, better targeting of the social security, reforms in the field of
public employment and local finance system. All these issues are covered by operations currently
under preparation, especially the Public Sector Adjustment Loan. Crucial reforms in the enterprise
and financial sector include development of a comprehensive regulatory framework in the banking
sector, improvement in bank and enterprise management, a strong program to reduce enterprise
losses, and smootfing the process of privatizing and liquidating SOEs (that should lead to a
substantial reduction in the remaining State shareholdings in enterprises). These issues are
addressed by the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL).
I. Key Lessons Learned
38.    Some lessons from experience that have emerged from the implementation of the medium
term reform program supported by the SAL II are summarized below:
(i) Prudent macroeconomic management is crucial to the success of transformation. The
Government's failure to maintain its commitment to tight fiscal policy resulted in a vicious
circle of high fiscal deficits, high current account deficits, excessive taxation and low growth.
In the absence of a stable macroeconomic environment that allows for sustainable growth, no
structural reform program will be completely successful.
(ii) Partial implementation of a reform package may not allow for overall satisfactory results.
Although the SAL II was successful in identifying areas of crucial importance for the
structural transforming of the economy, the agreed program was not implemented with the
same speed in all areas. Radical liberalization was not able to compensate for a delay in public
sector reform. The important operational message from the SAL II is that more emphasis
should be put on the balance in implementing reforms, as a success in one area does not
necessarily compensate for a slippage in the other.
(iii) Reforms of the public sector in transition economies are even more difficult to implement
than the initial liberalization and building of competitive markets. This is mainly because of
the powerful political and social factors behind the existing structures of the public sector.
The reforms are risky from a political and social point of view but crucial for long-term
economic growth.
(iv) Transition economies remain strongly vulnerable to the external environment. This is
particularly true of Central and Eastem European economies, that are heavily dependent on
European Union markets. The analysis of risk factors, and more particularly of the European
dimension of economic processes in this region, should be enhanced.
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits



-11-
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursments: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



-12-
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial       Partial       Negligible        Not
Applicable
Macro policies                      E               1              0               0
Sector policies                     0               1              0               D
Financial objectives                O0             1E                               3
Institutional development           O               RI             E               E3
Physical objectives                 El              0              El              0
Poverty reduction                   O               O3             0               El
Gender issues                        l              E              E               0
Other social objectives             O                3             E               1
Environmental objectives            O3              E              O               0Z
Public sector management            El              1E                             El
Private sector development          0                              0               E3
Other (specify)                     El              E                              Q3
B. Project sustainability         Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
-0             O3              O
C. Bank perfonnance               Highly        Satisfactory    Deficient
satisfactory
Identification                      0Z              03             0
Preparation assistance              0Z              E              O
Appraisal                           0E              O              O3
Supervision                         0               0              El
D. Borrower performance           Highly        Satisfactory    Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation                         0Z              El             0
Implementation                      E               E3             0
Covenant compliance                 O                3             0Z
Operation (if applicable)           E3              El             El
E. Assessment of outcome          Highly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Highly
satisfactory                                 Unsatisfactory
l              0E                             El



-13-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title        Purpose                              Year of        Status
Approval
Proceding operations
First Structural         The loan supported the Government's    1990   Disbursed
AdjustmentLoan (SAL I)    program of structural reforms, to
establish a market economy, increase
competitiveness, and increase
effectiveness of social programs.
Following operations
Enterprise Reform         The loans supported the Goverrnent's    1992   Disbursed
Loan                     enterprise reform program aimed at
accelerating sharply the privatization,
commercialization and restructuring
of the state enterprise sector.
Tax Administration       The objective of the project, through  1993   Under
Modernization            the institutional strenghtening of APEG      implementation
(the tax authority) was to help strenghten
tax administration in order to maximize
revenues in a sustainable way.



-14-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Circle                    Date Planned        Actual Date
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal                                                             4/24/91
Negotiations                                                          5/20/91
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                          5/30/91
Board presentation                                                    6/19/91
Signing                                      May 1991                 7/05/91
Effectiveness                                July 1991                7/19/91
Second tranche release                       March 1992               3/30/92
Third tranche release                        Sep. 1992                    --
Project completion                            12/31/1992             12/31/94
Loan closing                                  12/31/1992             12/31/94
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS million)
FY92         FY93         FY94
Appraisal estimate                   175           75            0
Actual                               175            0            0
Actual as % of estimate              100%          --           --
Date of final disbursement     September 1992



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                                           Actual
A. Key implementation indicators
L. Conditionsfor second tranche release
1. Macroeconomic Policies           Satisfactory macro performance based on agreed indicators and   Export volume, gross debt, inflation, balance of
targets for 1991 agreement on 1992 budget and financing plan.   payments and fiscal criteria met in 1991.
2. Public Finance Reform            Commitment, reflected in 1992 State Budget to reduce transfers  Reduction of transfers in real terms in 1992.
to CBIs in real terms as agreed with Bank; and agreement with   Adoption of the action plan of privatization of
Bank on concrete actions to achieve this target, including  certain activities and application of user charges
privatization of certain activities (applied research, training,  (1991). The program was not fully implemented
culture and education) and expanded private provision and  until 1995-96.
wider application of user charges (e.g., in health and education).
Commitment, reflected in 1992 Sate Budget to reduce transfers   Reduction of transfers in real terms in 1992.
to EFs in real terms as agreed with Bank, and to reduce the  Adoption of the action plan to eliminate certain
number of unregulated EFs. Agreement with Bank on concrete  funds (1991). The program was not implemented
actions to achieve these objectives, including eliminating some   until 1995-96.
EFs (together with earmarked cased or contributions financing
EFs that are eliminated), privatizing some of their tasks, or
transferring tasks to local governments; and either integrating
other EFs with the State budget, or regulating them by separate
laws.
New depreciation system and reduction in
Reduction of effective Entrepreneurial Profit Tax by    preferences and exemptions (1992)
introduction of new depreciation system (closet to true economic
depreciation). Broadening of enterprise tax based by narrowing
exemptions and preferences;



-16-
Estimated                                           Actual
Broadening of PIT base by including some "wage-like" income   Broadening of PIT base; lowering top PIT rate to
currently not taxed; reduction of progressivity of PIT by  40% in 1992 (increased again to 44% in 1994 and
widening tax brackets and lowering top rate;            48% in 1996).
Elimination of zero rate for VAT (except for a small number of   Gradual elimination of zero rate for VAT (except
services) and reduction of top rate. Increase rebate of VAT on    for some pharmaceuticals). 100% rebate of VAT on
capital goods to 100 percent.                           capital goods. No change of VAT top rate.
3. Intensification of Competition   Import licensing eliminated for at least 80% of 1986 gross  Import licensing eliminated for 78% of 1986 gross
industrial production.                                  industrial production in 1991-92, further
liberalization in 1993.
Further relaxation of global quote on consumer goods import by  Increase of the quota in line with the commitment.
increasing the value of the quote to at least $750 million and
reducing the share of goods covered by the quote from 15
percent of 1986 gross industrial production in 1991 to no more
than 100% of 1986 gross industrial production.
4. Development of Social Safety Net  Presentation to Parliament of new pension system including  Parliamentary decision to reform the Social
amnong other charges; tightened eligibility by raising the  Insurance Fund (end 1991). Separation of the
minimum retirement age of women to equal that of the men by   Pension and the Health Fund. Indexation of
year 2000; raising the standard retirement age (when full  pension to wages.
pensions are granted) and changing the pension formula to  No decision about effective retirement age increase
induce later retirement by individual. Under the new scheme,    made until 1995-96.
the starting pension will be lower, but it will be indexed to
preserve its real value relative to wage incomes.



-17-
Estimated                                              Actual
II. Conditions for third tranche release
1. Macroeconomic Policies             Satisfactory macroeconomic performance based on progress in    GDP, export volume, inflation, fiscal deficit target
meeting end-year targets, agreed at time of second tranche.  missed in 1992. All the targets missed in 1993.
2. Reduction in Role of the State     Initiation of privatization of Hungarian Vegetable Oil Co,  In line with the commitment.
Liberalization of domestic trade in vegetable oil products,
including elimination of all inclusive dealing restrictions, if
warranted, based on review, elimination of restriction on
external trade in vegetable oil products.
3. Public Finance Reform              Implementation of agreed actions to reduce State budget    Not implemented until 1995-96.
transfers to CBIs.
Implementation of agreed actions to reduce State budget    Not implemented until 1995-96.
transfers to EFs , and to reduce the number of unregulated
funds.
4. Intensification of Competition
Transfer district heating price selling authority to local  Elimination of household energy subsidies from
governments, thus eliminating all household energy subsidies  State Budget in 1992. Slowdown in increase of
from State Budget. Implementation of agreed new tariff     administered prices for energy in 1993-94 (trend
structure for electricity and natural gas, and agreed formula for   reversed in 1995-96).
maintaining central government administered prices for energy
(electricity and natural gas) at economic cost levels.
5. Development of Social Safety Net                                                              Health care financing reform delayed until 1995-96.
Presentation to Parliament the reform of financing of health care
and sick pay by shifting to the employer responsibility for at
least the first 3 weeks of employee sick pay.



-18-
Estimated                                     Actual
1991           1992           1993           1991           1992           1993
B. Quantitative indicatorsfor Assessing
Macroeconomic Performance
Real GDP growth (%/,)                  -8 to -6        1 to 3         3 to 5          -11.9          -3.1           -0.6
Export volume growth (%/6)             -8 to -6        5 to 7         6 to 8          -13.9           2.1          -10.1
Gross debt/GDP (%)                     68 to 70       65 to 67       61 to 63         67.8           57.6           63.7
Consumer price inflation (average, %)  33 to 35         21              13            35.0           23.0           22.5
Current account (US$ mln)               -900           -600         below FDI         267            324           -3455
(numbers excluding FDI in brackets)                                                  (1726)         (1795)         (-1126)
Consolidated state budget balance/GDP    -1.5           -0.5        -0.2 to 0.0       -2.1           -5.4           -6.6
Subsidies/GDP (/)                        7              5              4             7.4             5.5            4.3



-19-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as defined at       Status        Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
The demise of the CMEA     Inplications of the CMEA    Done          Necessary
disintegration for Hungary               policy response
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate             Actual
(US$ million)             (US$ million)
Local  Foreign  Total     Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs             costs   costs
Total                                        400      400              280      280
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate             Actual
(US$ million)             (US$ million)
Local  Foreign  Total     Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs             costs   costs
1. IBRD/IDA                                  250      250              175      175
2. Export-Import Bank of Japan               150      150               105     105
Total                   400      400              280      280
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



-20-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant                Original    Revised
Agreement  Section      type        Status    Fulfilimen   Fulfillmen   Description of Covenant
t date     t date
Loan          3.01    Procurement  Complied                          Except as the Bank shall othervise agree,
Agreement                                                            procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
process of the Loan shall begovemed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Loan        3.02(a)   Accounts/   Complied                           The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
Agreement               audits                                       maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the expenditures
financed out of the process of the Loan
Loan        3.02(b)   Accounts/   Complied                           The Borrower shall: have records and accounts
Agreement               audits                                       referred to para (a) of this section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
furnish to the Bank not later than 6 months after
the end of each year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said auditors; furnish to the Bank
such other infonnation concerning such records
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Loan        3.02(c)   Accounts/   Complied                           For all expenditures with respect to which
Agreement               audits                                       withdrawals from the Loan Agreement were made
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall: maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the year in which last
withdrawal was made all records evidencing such
expenditures; enable the Bank's representatives to
examine such records; ensure that such records are
included in the annual audits and that the audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditures,
procedures and intemal controls can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.



-21-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle        Actual weeks
Through appraisal                     116.2
Appraisal - Board approval             12.4
Board approval - Effectiveness         2.0
Supervision                           42.6
Completion                             6.0
Total                             179.2
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating          Types
Stage of project cycle   Month/   No.of   Days in  Speciali  Implementation  Development   of problems
year   Persons   Field   zation        status       objectives
Identification        3/90       3       10       E
Pre-Appraisal         2/91       8       13       E,F
Appraisal             4/91       5       11       E,F
Supervision           11/91      5       15       E,F           1              1             P
Supervision           6/92       5       14       E,F           2              2             P
Supervision           1193       5       18       E,F           3              3             p
Supervision           6/93       3       13       E,F          3               3             P
Supervision           9/93       1       10       E            3               3             p
Completion
Total                                    104






Appendix A. Borrower contribution to the ICR






NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
)l 'lAI{MN 1011 :X'l  .lVRlN'ERNAT1ONAL [)EVELOI'MNENT INSTrRTIONS 
Review of the Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II)
(3347-HU) from the Borrower's perspective
Objectives
The loan supported the Government's medium term economic reform program aimed
at accelerating and completing the trasition to a competitive market economy in
Hungary and creating the basis of economic growth. These objectives were intended to
be realized through the implementation of a wide-ranging reform program which
incorporated (i) the reduction of the role of the state in the economy - regarding the
administrative intervention in resource allocation and the ownership of productive
assets; (ii) the intensification of competition by way of further import liberalization, the
promotion of new private ventures, the implementation of effective anti-trust actions
and the tightening of financial discipline, (iii) the reform of financial sector, and (iv) the
establishment of financially viable, well targeted and efficient program of social
assistance in order to alleviate the social costs of adjustment.
Implementation
Although the macroeconomic developments in Hungary were unfavourable during the
implementation of the SAL H operation the basic legal and institutional market
infrastructure was put in place during this period and substantial progress was achieved
in some crucial areas covered by the program.
Hungary moved rapidly to liberalize external trade and domestic prices, which played
an important role in attracting foreign direct investments.
Major advances were achieved in terms of subsidy reduction Cincluding household
energy subsidy), reform of Central Budgetary Institutions and Extrabudgetary Funds,
bankruptcy proceeding and the privatisation.
Important measures to reform the system of direct taxes were introduced among others
broadening of the Profit tax base by eliminating some exemptions, and reduction of
effective rates by introducing a new depreciation system; broadening of PIT base by
including some "wage-like" incomes. The measures related to the VAT reform were
only partially implemented as the top rate has not been reduced. The overall tendency
of reducing tax rates could not be continued consequently later due to fiscal problems.
H- 78.50 Budlapepst V.. Szaohadscig tcfr 8/9.
P/7o0e: (36-1)15.3-2600. (.36-1)269-4760 Fax t36-1t132-3913



Some important initial steps were taken in the field of social security and social
assistance, which, however, have only a preparatory character.
Unfortunately, these reforms have been implemented in a very adverse environment,
caused by the recession in Western Europe, the UN sanctions on Yugoslavia and two
years of severe droughts, resulted in a significant fall in exports. The curtailment of
loss-making activities - due to the implementation of a strict bankruptcy law - could
also lead to some drops in exports.
Shortcomings in policy exacerbated this deterioriation.
By early 1995 it was realized that external and fiscal deficit became unsustainable and
the Government adopted a strong adjustment package in March 1995, which involved
fiscal adjustment including a significant upfront devaluation of the forint followed by
the introduction of a pre-announced crawling peg, tightening of wage policy in the
public sector, introducing a temporary import surcharge to be lifted by mid 1997.
Macroeconomic stabilization accompanied by acceleration of structural reforms
succeeded in several respects: fiscal imbalance was contained, external competitiveness
improved leading to a decline of the current account deficit, enterprise profit margins
recovered, the privatisation process proceeded rapidly, and the external debt
decreased, bringing Hungary much closer to the targets of the program supported by
the SAL H.
RelationshipD
The continuous intellectual and financial assistance of the Bank was of special
significance in this difficult period of our transformation.
The cooperation between the Bank and the Hungarian authorities was very good
throughout the preparation and implementation of the SAL II.
The SAL HI program identified areas of crucial importance for structural reforming of
the economy and it was realized that more emphasis should be put on public sector
reform, which is complex and difficult from professional as well as political and social
point of view but essential for long ter,m economic growth.
The Government has been committed to accelerate and complete these structural
reforms and with close and fruitful cooperation with the World Bank intensive work is
going on in the framework of preparation of the Public Sector Adjustment Loan,
addressing the reform of the pension system, health care financing system, tax
administration, public employrnent and local finance system. The Bank staff plays an
important role in assisting the Hungarian counterparts to prepare a coherent concept
and formulate the detailed design of these reforms.



Appendix B. Second Tranche Release Document






*          ~~~Attachment I      v [*
From:  The President                      -
March  , 1992
HUNGARY - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II (LOAN No. 3347-HU)*
RELEASE OF SECOND TRANCEE
I. Background
1.          Hungary accelerated its efforts to transform the economy into a
modern market economy following the multi-party elections--the first in over
forty years--in early 1990. Coming at a time when Hungary's heavy debt burden
and perceptions of greater regional risk were causing international investors
to reduce their exposure, the acceleration of market oriented reforms required
an increase in the level of Bank assistance to Hungary and an intensification
of structural reforms. This effort led to the first structural adjustment
loan (SAL, Loan No. 3328-HU) for $200 million, which was approved by the Board
on June 20, 1990. Implementation of the structural reforms under the SAL was
good and the second and last tranche of the loan was fully disbursed in
February 1991. To help finance part of the anticipated shock from the shift
of CMEA trade to world prices and convertible currencies and to support the
ongoing reform process, SAL 2 for $250 million was approved on June 19, 1991
and became effective on July 19, 1991.
2.          The IMF also stepped up its support to Hungary's reform program,
approving a three year Extended Arrangement (EA) for SDR 1,114 million on
February 20, 1991. A contingency financing mechanism was attached to the EA
allowing for additional purchases of SDR 299.45 million and a request for a
drawing under the Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility equivalent
to SDR 226.3 million was approved on January 16, 1991. Hungary is in good
standing with the IMF in regard to the implementation of the EA (para. 23).
3.          Pursuant to Section 3 of the Guarantee Agreement, discussions were
held with the Hungarian authorities to review progress in implementing the
economic reform program. This memorandum reviews recent economic
developments, and progress in implementing specific actions for second tranche
release as specified in the Guarantee Agreement.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates                 *Questions on this document
President's Council                                may be referred to:
Executive Vice Presidents - IFC and MIGA                     Mr. Anil Sood
Vice Presidents, - Bank, IFC and MIGA                      (Extension 32580)
Directors and Department Heads - Bank, IFC and MIGA



II.  Macroeconomic DefreloDments in 1991
4.          Hungary's overall balance of payments at the end of 1990 was
fragile.  The current account impact of shifting CMEA trade to world prices
and convertible currencies was expected to be large and negative. Commercial
banks, wary of Hungary's ability to service additions to its already large
stock of external debt and concerned that the region was becoming riskier,
were reducing their exposure to Hungary.
5.          Against this backdrop, Hungary's success in restoring access to
international commercial capital markets in 1991 was remarkable. The main
reason for, improved sentiment toward Hungary was the favorable balance of
payments performance. This was due to continued rapid growth of exports to
the convertible currency area (nearly 15 percent in volume), the continued
strengthlog private transfers ($0.8 billion), and the spectacular increase ilk
foreigni direct investment (from $0.3 billion in 1990 to $1.2 billion in 19911.
Compared with the projected deficit of $0.9 billion, the current account
recorded a surplus of $0.3 billion and international reserves, which had
reached a precariously low level at the end of 1990, increased to $3.3 billicn
or about 4 months of imports at the end of 1991.
6.          This turnaround is all the more remarkable as it occurred
simultaneously with a huge decline in trade volumes among the former CMEA
countries. Indeed, in the case of Hungary, the 65 percent fall in the volume
of exports to the former CMEA countries explains most of the 8 percent fall in
real GDP in 1991.
7.          The domestic impact of the CMEA terms of trade shock was expected
to be largest on the Government budget because the loss of revenue from taxirg
domestic users of oil imported from the former Soviet Union exceeded the
reduction in subsidies on exports to the former CMEA. As a consequence, the
initial program envisioned a widening of the fiscal deficit in 1991. As has
occurred in many of the countries in the region, however, the sharp
contraction in economic activity resulted in a revenue shortfall equivalent to
3.5 percent of GDP and, as a result, the fiscal deficit reached 4.1 percent of
GDP compared with the initial target of 1.5 percent. Fortunately, the
budgetary slippage was contained to the revenue side of the budget.
Government expenditures including the subsidy reduction target, which in
previous years has been overshot, remained on track.
8.          The Government's success in controlling expenditures helped
contain a source of inflationary pressure, namely monetary financing of the
deficit. Following the administrative measures--consumer price subsidy
reductions and excise tax and administered price increases--that raised the
consumer price index by 17 percent in the first quarter of the year, the
monthly pattern of price increases slowed and in the second half of 1991
consumer prices increased at an annual rate of 15 percent. The 35 percent
average annual inflation rate in 1991 was in line with the initial target.



3.
III. Review of Implementation of Akctions for Second Tranche Release
9.          The program supported by SAL 2 is outlined in the Government's
Letter of Development Policy (LDP) dated May 30, 1991 and the matrix of policy
reform actions attached to the LDP. The following specific measures are
listed for second tranche release in the Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement.
(i) Continued maintenance of a macro-economic framework
consistent with the objectives of the Program as determined on the
basis of indicators acceptable to the Guarantor and the Bank, and
adoption of projections and indicators, acceptable to the
Guarantor and the Bank, for assessing the performance during 1992
of the macro-economic framework, including the financing plan and
the State Budget applicable thereto.
(ii) Import liberalization: Increasing the share of the total
value of 1988 gross industrial production not subject to import
licensing at least to 80 percent of such production; and
(iii) Increasing the value of the global quota on imports of
consumer goods to at least $750,000,000, and reducing the share of
consumer goods covered by the global quota on imports of such
goods from 15 percent of 1988 gross industrial production to no
more than 10 percent of such production.
(iv) Subsidy reduction: Reducing the level of consumer,
producer, investment and housing subsidies in the consolidated
State Budget in 1991 at least by the equivalent of 2 percent of
the Gross Domestic Product, or at least by the equivalent of Ft.20
billion (measured in terms of 1981 prices); and
(v)   Adoption of a 1992 State Budget providing for a reduction:
(a) from the approved 1991'level of consumer, producer, investment
and housing subsidies at least by the equivalent of 2 percent of
the Gross Domestic Product, and (b) of the household energy
subsidies to a maximum amount of Ft.3 billion.
(vi) Budgetary reform: Adoption of an action plan to reduce in
real terms transfers to Central Budgetary Institutions, including
through the privatization of a part of the applied research,
training, culture and education activities and the wider
application of user charges for health and education benefits; and
(vii) Adoption of an action plan to reduce in real terms transfers
to Extra-budgetary Funds and the number of such Funds which are
unregulated, including through the elimination or restructuring of
a number of such Funds and the privatization of certain of their
activities.
(viii) Pension reform: Submission to Parliament of a draft
pension law which provides for raising the minimum retirement age
of womien to that of men (60 years) by the year 2000, raising the



4.
retirement age at which ful1'pension is granted and for changing
the pension formula to induce later retirement by beneficiaries.
(ix) Tax reform: Submission to Parliament of a draft legislation
which provides for: (a) (i) elimination of the zero rate of the
Value-Added Tax, except for certain services, (Li) reduction of
the maximum rate of such tax, and (iii) raising the rebate of such
tax on capital goods to 100 percent; (b) (i) introduction of a
depreciation system for capital assets based on economic
depreciation, (ii) reduction of preferences and exemptions in the
Entrepreneurial Profit Tax; and (c) expanding the tax base of the
Personal Income Tax and reducing its progressivity by inclusion of
certain "wage like' incomes and widening tax brackets and reducing
the maximum rate, respectively.
10.         (i) Macroeconomic framework.  Despite the larger than anticipated
external shock from the collapse of trade in the former CMEA, macroeconomic
policies designed to contain domestic demand, encourage exports to convertible
currency markets, and contain inflationary pressures were adhered to and, as
noted above, they produced a noteworthy improvement in the balance of
payments, which helped improve market sentiment toward Hungary. Table 1 shows
Hungary's performance measured against the indicators specified in the LDP.
Table L: Indicators for Assessing Macroeconomic Performance
Under the Second Structural Adlustment Loan (SAL2)
1991                    1992          1993
Program      Estimated          Program       ProMCam
Real GDP Growth (X)                 -8 to -6         -7.7             1 to 2         3 to 5
Export volume growth (X)            -8 to -6         -3.9             6 to 8         6 to 8
Gross debt/GDP (X)                  68 to 70           62           65 to 67       61 to 63
Consumer price inflation,
(average, X)                33 to 35            35          20 to 25              13
Current account (US$ mln)               -900          327          -500 to 0             a/
Consolidated state budget
balance/GDP b/ (X)                   -1.5         -4.1               -2.1   -0.2 to l).0
Subsidies
Percent of GDP                           7            7                  5              4
a/    The current account deficit would be less than the inflow of foreign direct
investMent.
b/    "Consolidated" includes the State Budget, the Social Security Fund, and the
Housing Fund, but excludes extrabudgetary funds and local governments.
Amortization payments are subtracted from state budge expenditures.



5.
11.         The current account performance was much better than expected.  A
surplus of $0.3 billion was recorded in 1991 owing to stronger export growth
to countries outside the former CMEA (para. 5) and the unexpected strength of
private transfers. The shortfall in government revenue, as noted above (para.
7), accounts for the larger fiscal deficit compared with the initial program.
Finally, agreement was reached between the Government, and the staffs of the
Bank and the IMF on a revised medium term macroeconomic framework, including
the 1992 budget and external financing plan.
12.         (ii) Import liberalization.  A significant increase in import
competition occurred in 1991. The share of industrial production exposed to
import competition increased from 32 percent in 1990 to 72 percent in 1991.
Stiffer.'import competition resulting from this liberalization reportedly
underlies the 15 percent growth in the volume of imports from countries
outside the former CMEA.
13.         The authorities agreed in the context of SAL 2 to eliminate the
import licensing requirement on tariff lines representing at least 80 percent
of industrial production in 1992 but the actual increase was to 77.5 percent.
The small slippage in meeting the target is mainly attributable to the
maintenance of licensing on pharmaceuticals, which account for 2 percent of
industrial production. The authorities were concerned that newly introduced
measures to control physician prescribing practices may not be fully effective
and that, as a result, subsidies on imported pharmaceuticals could strain the
government health care budget. However, the government remains committed to
exposing domestic producers to competition from imports and intends to
increase the share of industrial production exposed to import competition to
above 80 percent in 1993.
14.         The Government has moved rapidly to liberalize imports in the past
four years without any reversals, despite fears that import liberalization
could pose a threat to the fragile balance of payments position and calls for
increased protection from industries facing greater competition from imports.
Progress has been steady and significant, with the share of industrial
production exposed to import competition rising from 32 percent at the
beginning of 1990 to 71.5 percent at the beginning of 1991 as the licensing
requirement was relaxed in all industrial subsectors. Only in the mining,
chemicals, light industry, and food processing subsectors was the share of
production exposed to imports below 97 percent. Additional liberalization of
imports occurred in each of the more protected subsectors in 1992 with the
exception of the food processing subsector, which accounts for 16 percent of
industrial production and where ipport liberalization depends in part on
progress in international discussions. In this context, Hungary's agreement
with the EC, concluded in November 1991, calls for further liberalization of
Hungarian import restrictions, including import licensing.
15.         In view of the steady progress in the past, we believe the
Government's commitment to reduce the licensing requirement for products
accounting for more than 80 percent of industrial production in 1993 is
credible. The Bank has been involved with the design of the import
liberalization program since its inception in 1989, and will continue to



6
review progress and discuss further stepV during the regular discussions with
the authorities on structural reform policies. In view of the small size of
the slippage and the commitment to make it up in 1993, we believe the small
deviation from the target for 1992 is acceptable and this condition can be
considered met.
16.         In line with their commitment under SAL 2, the authorities
increased the amount of the consumer goods quota to $750 million in 1992 and
reduced the coverage of the quota from 15 percent of industrial production to
10 percent.
17.      . (iii) Subsidy reduction.  The level of subsidies was reduced by
the equivalent of 2 percent of GDP to 7 percent of GDP in 1991 in line with
the authorsties' commitment under SAL 2.  Reducing subsidies has proved
difficult in the past.  Meeting the 1991 target is evidence of the
authorities' commitment to implement the difficult measures needed to
transform the structure of the Hungarian economy.  The 1992 state budget
passed by Parliament includes a further reduction in subsidies to 5 percent of
GDP, in line with the commitment under SAL 2, and the elimination of all
household energy subsidies, which goes beyond what had been agreed under SAL
2.
18.         (iv) Budget reform.  State budget transfers to central budgetary
institutions (CBIs) and extrabudgetary funds are lower *in real terms in the
1992 budget approved by Parliament. The authorities and the Bank have also
agreed on an action plan for reform of the CBIs. The Government aims to
reduce the network of CBIs. As discussed in the action plan, this will be
accomplished by commercializing (reorganizing as an enterprise under the
Company Act) functions, eliminating functions, merging institutions engaged in
similar tasks, transforming some CBIs into non-profit organizations and
separating them from the state budget, and improving the financing of other
CBIs, including through greater use of user fees and charges. The action plan
also targets a 15,000 person reduction in force in commercially oriented CBIs
by June 30, 1993, which would be brought about by the commercialization and
privatization of activities currently performed by the Government.
19.         The Government is also committed to reforming the network of
extrabudgetary funds (EFs). Toward that end, the Act on Public Finances
containing significant improvements in the system of regulating EFs has been
presented to Parliament and is expected to be passed in the first half of
1992. To increase the accountability of EFs to Parliament, the Act mandates
significantly improved budgetary reporting (basically following Government
Financial Statistics conventions), Previously the accounts of EFs were
virtually secret. Further, no EFs may be created except by Act of Parliament
and, in this way, all existing EFs will be brought under the rule of law.
Finally, every fourth year the Parliament must review the functioning of each
EF to determine whether the EF should continue to exist or how its activities
should be transformed. The authorities and the Bank agreed that submission to
Parliament of the Act on Public Finances including measures to reform the EFs
constituted an action plan for reform of the EFs.



7.
20.         (v) Pension reform.  A significant step toward improving the
social safety net occurred with the Parliamentary decision in October 1991 on
reforming the Social Insurance Fund. The main elements of the decision:
include separation of the health care and pension systems with the medium term
goal of establishing both as insurance systems. Non-insurance related social
benefits will therefore be eliminated from the social insurance system. In
the area of pension reform, the retirement age for women would be gradually
increased from 1993 until it reaches that of men (60 years) in 2000.
Thereafter the retirement age for both would be increased gradually to 62
years. These measures would promote later retirement. The initial benefit
would be reduced by including in the base for calculating the pension the
average salary during the previous four years instead of three years. In
addition, the legislation recommends gradually increasing the averaging
period, which would reduce distortions to labor supply. Pension benefits
would be indexed to the average net wage to protect them from inflationary
erosion. A cap on incomes subject to contribution and on pensions has also
been proposed to stimulate the development of private pensions. The
authorities recognize that these steps are only first steps and that further
measures will be needed to make the Social Security system actuarially sound
and permit a reduction in the presently high contribution rates.
21.         (vi) Tax reform.  All specified measures to reform the system of
direct taxes were introduced effective January 1, 1992. With respect to the
enterprise profits tax, the introduction of a modern system of depreciating
capital assets with asset lives closer to economic lives occurred with the
passage of the new Act on Accounting and Auditing. Numerous tax exemptions
and preferences will be eliminated in a phased manner upon expiry of the
allowances already granted. Thus, from August 1992, tax preferences for the
private sector, including accelerated depreciation and the 50 percent tax
preference will be discontinued. From the end of 1993, tax preferences for
joint ventures with foreign participation will also be eliminated. Tax
preferences for cultural activities, health, public services, and sports are
also to be eliminated. With respect to the personal income tax, Parliament
has passed legislation reducing the progressivity by widening the tax brackets
and reducing the top marginal rate to 40 percent, equal to the enterprise
profits tax rate. The base of the tax has also been broadened by including
some "wage-like" payments, notably meal contributions and cost allowances,
that previously were not in the tax base.
22.         Concerning the reform of indirect taxes, the increase in the
rebate of the value added tax (VAT) on capital goods went into effect on
January 1, 1992. Legislation has yet to be submitted to Parliament on the
further VAT reform--elimination of the zero rate except for a small number of
services, and reduction of the top rate (25 percent). The authorities have
two concerns. First, when the zero rate is eliminated and replaced with a 10
percent VAT, the increase in relative prices for many necessities could impose
undue hardship on the poorest segments of society. Second, as noted above
(para. 8) inflation declined markedly in the last half of 1991. Consolidation
of this decline is considered very important in order to reduce inflationary
expectations. The next six months are crucial in this context. The
introduction of the-VAT reform--which would raise the consumer price level by
3 to 4 percent on impact and up to 7 percent over a 12 month period--at the



8~
beginning of the year could have made it more difficult to decrease
inflationary expectations. The most desirable moment for introducing the VAT
reform would therefore appear to be in the second half of the. year. The
authorities are committed to introducing the VAT reform legislation to
Parliament prior to the end of the calendar year.
IV. Hungary's Relations with the IMF
23.         Hungary is in good standing with the IMF in regard to the
implementation of its three year Extended Arrangement (EA). The first four
purchases were made as scheduled, and the IMF Board approved the request for a
waiver of the performance criteria on the 1991 consolidated state budget
deficit (pata. 7) and on credit to the Government on March 23, 1992,
completing the second review under the EA.
V. Disbursements
24.         Following the effectiveness of the Loan on July 19, 1991, the
first tranche of $100 million has been fully disbursed.  The procurement of
eligible goods has been carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
and to the Bank's satisfaction. The first tranche of $100 million of the
cofinancing by the EXIM Bank of Japan has also been fully disbursed.
VI.  Conclusion and Recommendation
25.         Hungary surmounted the most acute difficulties--the CMEA trade
shock, the tight external financing situation--facing it at the beginning of
1991. However, the situation remains fragile. Import demand could respond
vigorously to an overall upturn in economic activity and only continued good
export performance would allow the consolidation of the recent improvement in
the balance of payments in a context of sustained economic growth. The
persistent, though moderate, two-digit inflation further highlights the
macroeconomic fragility.
26.         At the same time, the main economic challenge has shifted from
improving creditworthiness to creating the conditions for a resumption of
economic growth while preserving the favorable sentiment of international
investors. The Bank, in addition to providing needed financial assistance, is
helping the authorities design policies for managing the transition from
stabilization to growth, including, through the proposed Enterprise Reform
Loan, to accelerate the commercialization, restructuring and privatization of
Hungary's state enterprise sector., The presence of the Bank, particularly in
highly visible operations like the SAL 2 and the proposed Enterprise Reform
Loan, also sends a message to international investors that Hungary's
structural reform program is on track.
27.         We believe that the progress in implementing the program and in
meeting the conditions for the release of the second tranche has been good.
The slippage is negligible for the trade liberalization program and may be
justified in terms ef macroeconomic policy tactics in the case of the VAT
reform. Based on the authorities' commitment to introduce the VAT reform



- 9 .9
prior to the end of 1992, we recommend .chit submission to Parliament of
legislation including elimination of the zero rate for the value added tax
(VAT) (except for a small number of services) and reductioiiof the top rate
(to under 25 percent) be made a condition of release of the third tranche of
SAL 2, which is expected to take place in the fourth quarter of 1992. All
other conditions for release of the second tranche have been fully met. W.
therefore believe the program of structural adjustment supported by SAL 2 is
on track and we recommend that the second tranche of the loan be released.
28.         In the absence of objection, to be communicated to the Vice
President and Secretary or Deputy Secretary by the close of business on April
1992, the above recommendations will be deemed approved, to be so recorded
in the minutes of a subsequent meeting of the Executive Directors. The
Governme:t of Hungary will then be advised of the waiver of the condition of
second granche release related to the presentation to Parliament of
legislation for the reform of the VAT. the conversion of such condition to a
condition of release of the third tranche, and the availability of the second
tranche of $75 million equivalent. The Export-Import Bank of Japan will be
similarly advised, as specified in the Co-lenders' Agreement.
Lewis T. Preston



THE WORLD BANCK-IFC/*oaA
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
Date: March 26, 1992
To: Mr. Ernest Stern, Managing Director
Through: Mr. Michael H. Wiehen, Acting Vice President ECA
From: J         Acting Director EC2
Extension: 32555
Subject  UNGARY - SAL 2 Second Tranche Release
1.           Attached please find a fax from Kemal answering the questions raised in your note of
March 20, 1992. Also attached is a revised version of the Board paper, which reflects the GOH's
commitment to introduce the VAT reform legislation to the Parliament prior to the release of the third
tranche (paras. 22 and 27). We have also modified para. 23 on IRA relations to reflect the hIM
Board decision of March 23rd approving the waiver request and completing the second review undr
the Extended Arrangement.
2.           You also asked about the status of export license reduction. Exports of coal, some
metallurgical products other than steel and some textile raw materials have been liberalized in 1992.
These products amount to 4.2 percent of industrial production and 3 percent of industrial and
agricultural production. Thus, Hungary has met their commitment under SAL 2 to reduce export
licensing for products corresponding to 3 percent of industrial and agricultural production.
Attachments
cc:
Messrs./Mmes:       Hasan (ECAVP); Dervis (olr), Rajagopalan (olr) (EC2DR); Sood, Condon
(EC2CO); Puloschek (LEGEC)






I-A
(D O
.. O Z
aDa 



