Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3347 HU
                (Second Structural Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 5, 1991
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3347 HU
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
(the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor hereby declares its commitment to
the execution of the program (the Program) referred to in
Recital (A) of the Preamble to the loan agreement of even date
herewith (the Loan Agreement) between the Bank and the National Bank
of Hungary (the Borrower);
      (B)   by the Loan Agreement the Bank has agreed to extend to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to two hundred
fifty million dollars ($250,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as
provided in this Agreement; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower and to undertake such
other obligations;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to
this Agreement and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
term "Ft." means Forints in the currency of the Guarantor.
                              ARTICLE II
                             Guarantee
      Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on
the prepayment of the Loan all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                          Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in the Schedule to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Guarantor
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
      Section 4.01. The First Deputy President or the General
Manager of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
      Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Guarantor:
            National Bank of Hungary
            Department for International
              Development Institutions
            H-1850 Budapest
            Szabadsag ter 8-9
            Republic of Hungary
            Cable address:          Telex:
                  BANKO                227267 SMAFU-H,
Page  3
                  Budapest             225755 BANKO-H or
                                       227028 BANKO-H
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
                  By /s/ Mihaly Kupa
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                             SCHEDULE
              Actions Referred to in Section 3.01 (a)
          of this Agreement and in Paragraphs 4 (a) (ii)
        and 4 (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
Part A:     Actions referred to in Paragraph 4 (a) (ii) of
            Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
1.    Continued maintenance of a macro-economic framework consistent
with the objectives of the Program as determined on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Guarantor and the Bank, and adoption of
projections and indicators, acceptable to the Guarantor and the
Bank, for assessing the performance during 1992 of the macro-
economic framework, including the financing plan and the State
Budget applicable thereto.
2.    Increasing the share of the total value of 1988 gross
industrial production not subject to import licensing at least to
80% of such production.
3.    Increasing the value of the global quota on imports of
consumer goods to at least $750,000,000, and reducing the share of
consumer goods covered by the global quota on imports of such goods
from 15% of 1988 gross industrial production to no more than 10% of
such production.
4.    Reducing the level of consumer, producer, investment and
housing subsidies in the consolidated State Budget in 1991 at least
Page  4
by the equivalent of 2% of the Gross Domestic Product, or at least
by the equivalent of Ft.20 billion (measured in terms of 1981
prices).
5.    Adoption of a 1992 State Budget providing for a reduction: (a)
from the approved 1991 level of consumer, producer, investment and
housing subsidies at least by the equivalent of 2% of the Gross
Domestic Product, and (b) of the household energy subsidies to a
maximum amount of Ft.3 billion.
6.    Adoption of an action plan to reduce in real terms transfers
to Central Budgetary Institutions, including, through the privatiza-
tion of a part of the applied research, training, culture and
education activities and the wider application of user charges for
health and education benefits.
7.    Adoption of an action plan to reduce in real terms transfers
to Extra-Budgetary Funds and the number of such Funds which are
unregulated, including, through the elimination or restructuring of
a number of such Funds and the privatization of certain of their
activities.
8.    Submission to Parliament for enactment of a draft pension law
which provides for raising the minimum retirement age of women to
equal that of men by the year 2000, raising the retirement age at
which full pension is granted and for changing the pension formula
to induce later retirement by beneficiaries.
9.    Submission to Parliament for enactment of a draft legislation
which provides for: (a) (i) elimination of the zero rate of the
Value-Added Tax, except for certain services, (ii) reduction of the
maximum rate of such tax, and (iii) raising the rebate of such tax
on capital goods to 100%; (b) (i) introduction of a depreciation
system for capital assets based on economic depreciation, (ii)
reduction of preferences and exemption in the Entrepreneurial Profit
Tax; and (c) expanding the tax base of the Personal Income Tax and
reducing its progressivity by inclusion of certain "wage-like"
incomes and widening tax brackets and reducing the maximum rate,
respectively.
Part B:     Actions referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) (ii) of
            Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
1.    Continued maintenance of a macro-economic framework consistent
with the objectives of the Program as determined on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Guarantor and the Bank.
2.    Elimination of all restrictions on the domestic trade of
vegetable oil products, and initiation of the implementation of a
program to privatize the Hungarian Vegetable Oil Company.
3.    Completion of a review, satisfactory to the Bank, of the
structure of the vegetable oil industry and, if warranted by the
results and recommendations of said review, preparation and
initiation of implementation of an action plan for eliminating all
restrictions on the export and import of vegetable oil products.
4.    Satisfactory implementation of the action plans referred to in
paragraphs 6 and 7 of Part A of this Schedule.
5.    Transfer of authority to set energy prices for district
heating to local authorities.
6.    Introduction of a price structure, satisfactory to the Bank,
for electricity and natural gas including formulae for the main-
tenance of the prices of the same at levels sufficient to cover the
economic costs thereof.
7.    Submission to Parliament for enactment of a draft law for
health care and sick pay financing which provides for the financing
by employers of the first three weeks of employees' sick pay.
Page  5
