                                           Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                 Report No. 31750




                SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                           THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN


                     EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT FOR

                         THE GOVERNMENT OF PUNJAB PROVINCE


                                           Cr No. 38550

                                         MARCH 29, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region


 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
 of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
 authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
                              Effective as of December 1, 2004
                            Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (PKR)
                                     US$1 = PKR 57.23

                               GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 1 ­ June 30

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB        Asian Development Bank
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
EMIS       Education Management Information System
FY         Fiscal Year
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Agency
MTBF       Medium-Term Budget Framework
NEAS       National Education Assessment System
NFC        National Finance Commission
NGOs       Non-Governmental Organizations
PEF        Pakistan Education Foundation
PESAC      Punjab Education Sector Adjustment Credit
PESRP      Punjab Education Sector Reform Program
PFC        Provincial Finance Commission
PIHS       Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
PMIU       Program Monitoring and Implementation Unit
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAPP II    Second Social Action Program Project
SBP        State Bank of Pakistan
SCs        School Councils
SECAL      Sectoral Adjustment Loan
TOP        Terms of Partnership
TPV        Third Party Validation




                     Vice President       :   Praful C. Patel
                     Country Director     :   John W. Wall
                     Sector Manager       :   Michelle Riboud
                     Team Leader          :   Tahseen Sayed
                     Co-Team Leader       :   Qaiser M. Khan

                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS


1.    Project Data ................................................................................................ 1

2.    Principal Performance Ratings ........................................................................1

3.    Program Description ................................................................................... 2

4.    Achievement of Objectives and Outputs ............................................................ 3

5.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ...........................................9

6.    Bank and Borrower Performance.....................................................................10

7.    Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series .............................. 10




ANNEXES

Annex 1       Matrix of Policy Reforms
Annex 2       Punjab -- Medium-Term Fiscal Framework, 2002/03-2005/06
Annex 3       Borrower's Comments



MAP         32904




                                                    i

                             Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                                For Programmatic Adjustment Operations

 Operation ID: P083228                                                Operation Name: Punjab Education Sector Adjustment
                                                                      Credit (PESAC )
 Team Leader: Tahseen Sayed                                           TL Unit: SASHD
                                                                      Report Date:



1. Program Data

                   Name:     Punjab Education Sector Adjustment Credit                 L/C Number:
      Country/Department:    Human Development Sector                                      Region:   SAR

         Sector/subsector: Education
                   Theme: Decentralization, Governance, Improved Service Delivery



KEY DATES
                                                                                Original              Revised/Actual
      PCD/PR:                                                      Effective:   April, 2004           April, 2004
    Appraisal:     November 1, 2003                                    MTR:
     Approval:     February 10, 2004                                Closing:    September 30, 2004    September 30, 2004



       Borrower/Implementing Agency:       Islamic Republic of Pakistan
                       Other Partners:     Government of Punjab



STAFF                            Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                  Praful Patel                                   Praful Patel
Country Director:                John W. Wall                                   John W. Wall
Sector Manager:                  Michelle Riboud                                Michelle Riboud
Team Leader at ICR:              Tahseen Sayed                                  Tahseen Sayed
ICR Primary Author:              Nazmul Chaudhury

2. Principal Performance Ratings


(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)



                                           Outcome: S
                                       Sustainability: L
                   Institutional Development Impact: S
                                  Bank Performance: S
                             Borrower Performance: S



                                                      QAG (if available)               ICR
                                   Quality at Entry: N/A                               S
                     Operation at Risk at Any Time: N/A                                No




                                                          1

3. Program Description

3.a. Description of Program

Although the province of Punjab has better educational outcomes compared to other provinces of
Pakistan, key educational indicators are low compared to other countries with Punjab's level of
development. Almost forty percent of the adult population is illiterate and less than half of the
province's primary school-age population is enrolled in school. The enrollment rate is particularly
low in rural areas, especially for girls. Of those children who attend school, only fifty percent of the
students who enroll in grade one actually end up completing four or more years of schooling.

The population's low education level poses significant constraints to the realization of sustained
economic growth and poverty reduction in Punjab. The major issues affecting the performance of the
education sector and service delivery have been: (i) insufficient resources allocated to education; (ii)
systemic weakness in public sector service delivery, including over-centralization and inadequate
management; and (iii) the poor performance of the education system (in terms of access, governance,
and quality).

To address these fiscal and institutional challenges, the Government of Punjab is implementing a
three-year education sector reform program to enhance access and improve quality of education and
improve gender parity in Punjab, Pakistan's largest province. Key pillars of the Punjab Education
Sector Reform Program (PESRP) are: (A) public finance reforms to increase public spending for
education (and other pro-poor services) and to ensure fiscal sustainability; (B) reforms that strengthen
devolution and improve the fiduciary environment and governance; and (C) education sector reforms
to improve quality, access, sector governance, and public/ private partnerships.

3.b. Description of the Operation

The Bank has supported year one of the reform program through a US $100 million Punjab Education
Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC). A sector adjustment credit (SECAL) was a suitable instrument
to finance a reform program that seeks to bring significant policy and systemic changes. It was also a
more appropriate instrument to support cross-sectoral areas linked to the education reform program
such as enhanced expenditures, decentralization and governance reforms. Further, lessons from Bank
experience with investment projects and with the Social Action Program Project (SAPP) in Pakistan,
in the 1990s, had showed that policy reforms require support beyond sector line ministries. After
almost a decade of sector investment projects and the SAPP, Pakistan did not accomplish any
significant improvements in outcomes. There was a period of stock taking by both the Bank and the
Government on what was needed to bring about visible improvements in the education sector. The
experience of SAPP suggested that sector reforms require critical support and sustained commitment
of the Government as a whole. The Bank re-engaged with Government of Punjab against this
backdrop. A sector adjustment credit was considered appropriate as this instrument facilitates policy
dialogue, attention, and decisions at the highest levels of government.          The objective of the
adjustment credit was to provide financing to the Government of Punjab to support all three pillars of
the PESRP in bringing about increases in the educational attainment of the population of Punjab,
particularly the poor and women, and helping Punjab move towards achieving the Millennium
Development Goals of Universal Primary Education and Gender Parity in Primary Education by
2015. The experience of PESAC demonstrates that it has been the right instrument for prioritizing the
education sector, and has fostered incentives for improving performance since subsequent Credit
disbursements of the three-year program are based upon both implementation progress as well as
overall achievement of outputs. The sector adjustment operation is in alignment with key national



                                                    2

strategies and policies such as the Government of Pakistan's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP), the national Education Sector Reforms, and the Devolution program, and is also consistent
with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Pakistan. In addition, this operation is also
aligned with the Punjab Resource Management Program, which is supported by the Asian
Development Bank.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

The achievement of objectives and outputs is rated as satisfactory. The adjustment Credit was
provided to support a programmatic approach to reform, in which subsequent adjustment lending
would continue to support broader and deeper fiscal, governance and education reforms of the Punjab
Government. This ICR focuses on the achievements through the fulfillment of Board conditions, but
also includes review of the overall program to the current date.

Steady progress has been made in implementing the reform program. The policy matrix in Annex 1
provides the updated progress. Government of Punjab's performance during the first program year
has been impressive and a number of initiatives are already beginning to show impact. Now in the
second year, the reforms are being implemented on a faster track than anticipated during the
preparation of the first credit.

The following provides an assessment of achievement of objectives and outputs for each of the pillars
of the Program.

Pillar 1: Improving Public Sector Financing

Objective: To ensure that public expenditure is appropriately allocated to meet the Province's
education needs.

Before the adjustment credit was initiated, the Government of Punjab had developed a Medium-
Term Budget Framework (MTBF), which gave high-priority to pro-poor expenditure, especially
education. The revised MTBF (see Annex 2) suggests that the financial position of the province
remains on sound footing and in fact would continue to improve despite the provincial
government's commitment to sharply increase the pro-poor expenditure (see Annex 2). A large
part of this improvement in provincial finances is brought about by increased revenue transfers
from the federal government, as the provincial government expects a higher share for provinces in
the divisible pool of federal revenue in the next National Finance Commission (NFC) Award.
Restructuring of provincial taxes is expected to bring about a significant improvement in
province's own revenue, but its contribution to overall finances of the province would remain
small. Provincial expenditure is also projected to increase sharply (at 18% per annum). More
important, however, is the improvement in the composition of these expenditures as development
expenditures are projected to increase at a much faster rate than recurrent expenditures, and within
the latter, the pro-poor expenditure would increase substantially faster than other recurrent
expenditure, as the province makes a strong effort to reduce less-priority expenditure by reducing
un-targeted provincial subsidies. The province has developed a debt management strategy, which
focuses on early retirement of expensive federal government debt by raising concessional donor
financing, utilizing its cash balances and through more innovative means of financing. The
resulting reduction in debt servicing bill helps the province to increase its high-priority
expenditures on sustainable basis.

The MTBF projects that the provincial expenditure on education would more than double over
the 2002/03-2005/06 period, owing mainly to tripling to the Punjab Education Sector Reform



                                                   3

Program which was supported under PESAC. While the current expenditure on education
would increase by 78 percent, the development expenditure will almost triple due to continued
provision for missing facilities, provision of infrastructure to cater for the sharp increase in
enrollment and improving access to secondary and higher level education. Nonetheless, the
increase in development expenditure is from a very low base as development expenditure of
education had declined significantly before the reform program. The MTBF projections have also
been maintained.

In the second year of the program, the Government has allocated funds in accordance with the MTBF
projections. Specifically, the FY05 budget projects a 21% increase in overall provincial revenue and
a 16% increase in provincial expenditure. In accordance with the MTBF projections, the education
sector budget has been increased by 15%. Recurrent expenditure on provincially executed activities
has been increased by 28%, and the allocation for education from the development budget has been
increased by 38%. Information available from the district budgets shows an increase of about 14%
in allocation for education sector. More than 50% of districts have already realigned their budgets to
increase the level of their non-salary budgets for education.

Pillar 2: Supporting Devolution and Public Sector Management Reform

Objective: To facilitate transfer of resources to the district governments in order to improve timely
service delivery

An integral part of the reform program is the clarification of roles and responsibilities of provincial
and district governments under the devolution reform, and the introduction of incentives to district
governments to improve service delivery. These reforms are embodied in the Terms of Partnership
(TOP) agreements (which include annual performance targets) signed between the district and
provincial governments. This is the first time in Pakistan that such an explicit service delivery
contract has been initiated between the province and district governments.

Under the Local Government Ordinance, a single line transfer is made from the province to the
districts to meet all devolved expenditures including education through the Provincial Finance
Commission (PFC).       Under the TOP mechanism, an equal additional amount was given as a
conditional grant to each district earmarked for education. This conditional grant was released to the
accounts of each district government upon signature of the TOPs, specifically for providing missing
facilities to schools. A district-specific profile of missing facilities was included as an annex to all of
the TOPs to serve as a suggested guideline for prioritization of facility upgradation. A good data
system on education expenditures is being maintained, which includes regularly updated district level
expenditure trends in education.

To recalibrate the allocation of funds towards districts with greater educational needs as well as to
give incentives for districts to improve upon the performance of the education sector, subsequent
PESRP transfers in FY05 are being made via a needs and performance-based formula. The transfer
formula gives 70% weight to district needs (based on literacy and enrollment rates as well as
assessment of school infrastructure improvement needs) and the remaining 30% weight to a
combination of performance including increases in enrollments, districts budget allocations and
ability to utilize earmarked school funds. The needs and performance-based formula is more optimal
than the uniform amount provided to all districts in the first year of the Program, which did not take
into account the different capacities and needs of the districts.

Recognizing that district governments are likely to be constrained in their capacity to utilize these
funds in a timely manner, the Government of Punjab has initiated district-level capacity building



                                                      4

programs to improve program implementation. Besides issues of capacity constraints to properly
utilize funds, it still remains to be seen whether this nascent creation of fiscal and administrative
space at the district-level actually translates to more independent decision-making at the local level,
and whether the district governments are indeed more responsive to the needs of local communities.
Further, for the TOP to become a mechanism for strengthening provincial and district government
relationships and for bringing about sustained ownership of the program, it will require to be used
more effectively as an accountability mechanism.

Objective:     To Increase Transparency of Financial Management Processes and Procurement
Procedures

Consistent with the legal covenants for the credit, the funds for the program have been transferred by
the IDA to the Deposit Account of the Government of Pakistan with the State Bank of Pakistan
(SBP). The equivalent amount in Rupees was then transferred to the Consolidated Account (Account
No. 1) of the Government of Punjab. The deposit account has been audited by the Auditor General of
Pakistan and confirmation of the transfers to Punjab's consolidated account has been certified ­ all
within the timeframe as provided for in the Credit and Project Agreements. The Government of
Punjab had already provided the agreed level of budget increases in its FY04 budget.

The financial management arrangements under the first credit have been well implemented. The
Program Monitoring and Implementation Unit (PMIU) established in the Department of Education
under PESRP has taken the lead in establishing a system for program monitoring and management,
including financial management. The PMIU has maintained an adequate financial management
system using automated technology whereby financial activities related to program funds releases,
expenditures, and outputs are tracked all the way down to the district level. The maintenance of
financial records of salary and non-salary expenditures, and according to major and minor heads of
account within the framework of the government expenditure classification system, has been
adequately complied. While this is a positive development at the provincial level, improvements are
needed in district governments' capacity to manage and monitor the vast amount of education
expenditures that account for a large proportion of the district budget.

Procurement reforms are also underway for increasing efficiency and transparency. Contracts for
civil works above a certain threshold are now based on open competition and the requirement for pre-
registration of contractors has been removed and the standard Schedule of Rates (the previous
administrative arrangements of fixed unit rates under civil works contracts) is no longer applied.
Annual third party ex-post procurement audits have been initiated, which are welcome moves that
will help to access the transparency and efficiency of the procurement system. However, it will be
essential to build the capacity of district government staff to manage the vast procurement
responsibilities, and to regularly monitor the transparency of the procurement processes.

Pillar 3: Improving Quality, Access and Governance in the Education Sector

Objective: To Improve Teacher Management and Recruitment

To improve teacher accountability and performance, there has been a major policy shift towards
hiring of new teachers with school-based term contracts, with higher qualifications. More than
30,000 contract teachers with appropriate educational qualifications have been hired so far, starting a
process that is expected to bring qualitative improvements in the teaching cadre over time. However,
without reliable baseline information on teacher performance and its correlation to type of service
(i.e., full time government civil service versus contract) it is difficult to determine whether quality and
reliability of teachers will improve with this policy of contract recruitment. An assessment of this



                                                    5

initiative is required to determine whether these contract teachers are indeed making a change in
terms of performance and attendance so that the findings can inform the future policy on teacher
recruitment.

Objective: To Revitalize School Councils

Even though most schools have school councils, in practice they have been largely ineffective due to
lack of proactive members combined with the lack of financial or administrative powers at their
disposal. Under PESRP, the Government of Punjab has moved towards revitalizing school councils.
A key watershed has been that, for the first time, School Councils (SCs) have been given funds for
development expenditures. District Governments were notified to authorize district funds to School
Councils for carrying out small works up to Rs. 200,000. In pilot districts NGOs have been hired to
revitalize local school councils by increasing their level of involvement in a range of activities such as
helping to identify new infrastructure needs and monitoring teacher absenteeism. While these are
encouraging moves towards strengthening parental and community involvement in school
management, the experience of School Councils has been uneven in the past and will require more
support and focus in order to deepen parental and community involvement in decision making about
school affairs. The Government also needs to identify ways to assign more responsibility to the
School Councils in ensuring accountability of teachers. While the reform efforts in this area have
created an enabling policy framework, the second generation of reforms will be required to make
School Councils more effective, and to reorient the district and school staff to support SCs expanded
functions.

Objective: To Strengthen Program Monitoring and Evaluation

The Punjab Government has established a Program Monitoring and Implementation Unit (PMIU)
under the Provincial Education Department. The PMIU is responsible for both: (a) monitoring and
evaluating the impact of the overall program on public primary schooling; and (b) overseeing
implementation of certain key components of the reform program such as the awareness campaign
and delivery of free textbooks.

One of the most significant achievements of the PMIU has been the development of robust
monitoring systems that oversee and verify program inputs as part of routine program management.
The Education Management Information System (EMIS) has been revamped and mainstreamed under
the Program. Because of the Program's efforts to improve the management and monitoring systems,
for the first time in Punjab, data is being collected for the purpose of analysis, and for feeding directly
into policy decisions. However, it will be critical for these systems to be incrementally integrated
into the mainstream functioning of the Education Department to ensure sustainability and continued
use.

The ongoing monitoring being undertaken by the PMIU is supported by external monitoring and
validation exercises such as Third Party Validation (TPV) and impact evaluations. TPV surveys are
an important part of the Program's monitoring and evaluation efforts, as they are seen to confirm (or
correct) the information collected and maintained by the PMIU as an independent source of
verification. TPVs have been undertaken to assess the teacher training program, to verify progress of
the girls' stipend program, textbook delivery and validate enrollment data and trends of increased
enrollments. There is also a strong commitment towards conducting rigorous evaluations to assess
the impact of programs such as the girls' stipend program, free textbook distribution, and physical
infrastructure improvements on enrollments. The evaluations will also play an important role in
informing the Government on recalibrating the reform components. An overall evaluation of the
program will in turn be required to document the impact of the Program on overall (public and



                                                     6

private) education enrollments and on education outcomes in the province. These evaluations will
help to not only assess whether the reform components are producing their desired outcomes, but also
help to recalibrate the program, allowing for course correction.

Improve Quality and Access

Objective: To Improve Equitable Access to Education

In order to enhance access to education, free textbooks were distributed to all students in Government
primary schools through an efficient delivery system. For the first time in Punjab, textbooks reached
over 85% of the students in time for start of the school year. The reform program has in effect not
only provided free of cost textbooks, easing the financial burden on parents, but has also resulted in
alignment of textbook availability with the start of the school year.

Besides providing free schooling to all children up till matriculation level (10th Grade) and providing
free textbooks up till class 5 (which has now been extended to cover middle school in the second year
of the Program), the Government of Punjab is implementing a female middle school stipend program
in fifteen low-literacy districts to enhance access to education for girls. Under the program, all girls
in grades 6-8 in Government schools in the fifteen target districts receive a Rs. 200 monthly payment
as long as they maintain an 80% attendance record. While initial results are impressive with about
20% increases in girls' middle school enrollment in the target schools, any expansion of the stipend
program, either vertical to or horizontal, will need to be based on an assessment of whether it is
optimal to extend the program to cover all public schools or to maintain its focused approach by
targeting further based on poverty and illiteracy levels, to perhaps even include targeted stipends for
low cost private sector schools.

Access is also being enhanced by improving school infrastructure through provision of missing
facilities and opening non-functional schools that were closed due to absence of teachers. Progress
has been made on school facility upgradation despite delays in disbursement and utilization of PERSP
funds. While delays in start-up and in signing of the TOPs led to low levels of utilization of the
actual budgeted amounts, progress in provision of missing facilities has been steady and on track.
Prior to the reform program, there were 1,300 non-functional schools, i.e., an empty school building
without any students attending the school. This was primarily due to vacant teacher posts. Surveys
show that after the recruitment and posting of contract teachers to these schools, 50% of the former
non-functional schools have now become functional.

The Government has also launched an extensive awareness campaign to inform the population of
Punjab about the reform program through a host of mass media outlets including TV, radio, and
newspapers. While this is an effective way to enhance public knowledge about the Program, the
credibility of such a campaign is closely linked to the supply of inputs, making it important for the
Government to maintain the momentum of the Program.

Interim analysis based on latest school census survey data from October 2004 is indicating an
increase in enrollments of 13% in government primary schools in Punjab as compared to the annual
1.5% increase documented during the past decade. These findings have been validated through
independent third party surveys. Based on this interim analysis, it appears that enrollments in public
schools are increasing and can be expected to lead to greater access to education in the province.

These are encouraging early gains.        It will, however, be important to sustain the increase in
enrollments. The Punjab Government will need to ensure that plans for improving and providing
missing school infrastructure are revisited and revised in the context of rapid changes in enrollment so



                                                    7

that the reform effort is not jeopardized because of supply not keeping up with the demand. This will
also need to be accompanied by visible improvements in the quality and reliability of teachers and
other quality enhancing inputs. Further, in order to assess changes in overall net enrollment rates, it
will be essential for the Government to obtain data on private sector enrollments. In the absence of
up to date household level data, it is not yet possible to determine overall provincial enrollment
levels.

Objective: To Ensure Provision of Quality Education Through Improved Teaching and Materials

As the focus during the first year of the Program was on putting the essential systems in place and
providing the key inputs required to "kick start" reform in the education sector, limited progress was
made in improving the quality of education in terms of improved teaching and learning. However,
the Punjab Government has recently taken steps to improve the quality of teaching by focusing on
restructuring of the institutional framework for delivery and management of the professional
development program for teachers and other education staff. The Government has also developed a
framework and action plan for professional development of teachers in order to broaden the teacher
training activities to a professional development program, which also combines direct classroom
support to teachers, incentives, monitoring and accountability, and career path growth and
compensation with new training programs including those designed and implemented with the private
sector. Although this professional development program is not fully operational, the framework has
been developed and steps have been taken to begin its implementation. Despite the best intentions of
the Government, it will be a daunting challenge to reform a system that has for decades sustained a
cadre of low quality teachers who were rarely held accountable for their performance. It still remains
to be seen whether the Government has the political will to take on such a well-organized special
interest group ­ which is key towards improving learning outcomes in Punjab.

To improve quality of education, the Punjab Government is also implementing testing of student
learning achievements in grade 4 and 8 as part of the National Education Assessment System (NEAS)
program and institutionalizing regular provincial learning assessments.           Without assessment of
learning, it will be difficult to measure quality changes as a result of the Program. While initiatives to
reform teacher professional development and learning assessment is currently underway, it is
important to bear in mind that bringing about structural changes in the teaching profession and
improvements in quality of education will be a complex process requiring sustained long-term
reform.

Further efforts to improve quality of teaching include the new policy to open up textbook
development to authors external to the textbook board.            As there was previously a lack of
transparency in the textbook board regarding awarding of textbook printing and publishing contracts,
important first steps have been taken by opening textbook printing and publishing to competition.
Again, the success of this reform will depend upon the continued will of the Government to continue
to push these fundamental changes in the textbook printing and publishing practice. Alongside this
reform, the quality of textbooks also requires improvements as it has a direct impact on learning
outcomes.

Objective: To Expand Access to Education Through Innovative Public Private Partnerships

Recognizing the growth of the private sector as an indication of the increasing demand for education,
the reforms envisioned an expansion of public-private partnerships.              The Punjab Education
Foundation (PEF) has been restructured as an autonomous institution to support public-private
partnership programs, especially low cost private schools. This part of the reform program has




                                                     8

moved slower than expected as the focus of the first year program was on instituting reforms for
improving public sector delivery.

The Government needs to develop a framework for public private partnership in order to increase
education access in Punjab. Key elements of such a framework is a vision for public private
partnership (which the PEF has started to develop), a strategy for how to work with the private sector,
and public financing of low cost private education. Initially, there is a critical need for a private
school census that helps to map out the extent and nature of private schools in the province, which are
currently not captured by the Government's monitoring system (EMIS).                Further, the Punjab
Government will also need to consider extending some incentives ­ such as free textbooks and
stipends ­ to low cost private and NGO schools. Such types of efforts could help the Government to
tap into the capacity of the private sector in order to bring about the required improvements in access
to education.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

The good progress in the first year of the reform program is a result of a combination of factors.
First, strong political championship and commitment at the highest level provided the drive needed to
launch and implement the reforms. This was further strengthened by a sharp focus on key aspects of
reform that did not waver, even when the challenge of introducing new ways of doing things (such as
opening up of textbook printing and publishing) was daunting.               Intensive management and
monitoring by the Government, including new systems that were developed, and regular oversight by
a high level steering committee comprised of key senior officials, further ensured that progress
remained on track.

The Program Document indicated several risks that could affect program implementation. These
included: the evolving roles and responsibilities of the local governments relative to the Provincial
Government; Pakistan's history of lack of sustained political support to education; the potential lack
of fiscal sustainability of the reform program beyond the three year proposed period of IDA
assistance; weak departmental capacity to implement and monitor the program; and the possibility
that School Councils would not be given sufficient administrative and fiscal discretion to effectively
function, thereby restricting expansion of parental and community participation in school-level
decision making.

Given that the actual devolution of finances and responsibilities is in its early stages, it is not
surprising that the major factor which has delayed implementation of certain components of the
reform program has been in working out the roles and responsibilities between the province and
districts, and capacity issues at the district level. In particular, availability and use of reliable and
accurate data at the district level needs to be improved, building upon the successes in this area at the
Provincial level.

There have been delays in clarifying the role of the private sector and integrating the private sector
via innovative public-private partnerships to improve upon overall service delivery in education has
yet to be worked out. The Government of Punjab is now working with the Punjab Education
Foundation to move forward on developing a framework for public private partnerships.
Restructuring of the teacher training program has been delayed. It has taken considerable effort to
restructure the teacher professional development program to ensure that teacher training does indeed
have a discernable impact in increasing staff motivation and skills, as well as student learning
outcomes.




                                                     9

Teacher absenteeism was highlighted as one of the key issues in the education sector in the PRSP, it
is imperative that the Government of Punjab establish a credible system for measuring the incidence
of teacher absenteeism. The Government will need to take necessary steps to systematize the
collection of such information in its regular schools surveys and via third-party surveys. This remains
as major data deficiency to appropriately assess the impact of the reform program on basic issues of
teacher accountability.

Another factor that could affect long-term outcomes is the increasing levels of enrollment. Although
the Government is implementing an extensive physical facility improvement program, the high levels
of enrollment increases will need to be matched with adequate supply of schooling inputs, as well as
improvements in quality. If the Government of Punjab is unable to provide higher levels of resources
­ financial, physical and human ­ in response to the growing demand for education spurred on by the
initial success of the reform program, the momentum that the Program has generated might be
squandered.

6. Bank and Borrower Performance

Overall Bank performance has been satisfactory. The Bank task team is composed of members from
Human Development, PREM, Financial Management and Procurement, and Social Development with
in-depth country as well as sector knowledge. A sound and professional relationship with the
relevant provincial agencies has been sustained throughout the preparation, appraisal and supervision
stages. There has been strong continuity of Bank task team members, PMIU counterparts, as well as
key policymakers in the provincial government. This has helped to maintain a consistent dialogue
with the provincial government. Given that this was an adjustment credit, the dialogue with key
policymakers outside of the education sector, particularly finance and planning, played a critical role
in helping to formulate education sector strategies within the broader development strategy of the
province. Moreover, this project has been well integrated into major Bank strategy for Pakistan (via
the Country Assistance Strategy). This has furthermore helped to sustain a coherent dialogue with the
national government. Besides the dialogue with provincial and federal partners, the Bank team also
coordinated its work closely with the Asian Development Bank (ADB), which played a major role in
assisting the Punjab Government to undertake key public finance reforms.

Borrower performance has been fully satisfactory. The Government of Punjab has backed its political
commitment by instituting key crosscutting reforms in public finance, solidifying relationships of
accountability between various tiers of government, and has made considerable efforts to improve
service delivery. Furthermore, the Government of Punjab continues to foster the reform program by
dedicating more financial resources to the education sector, and by continuing oversight by a high
level provincial steering committee that is guiding the reform process. The PMIU has also played a
key role in managing and monitoring the program very closely, and in providing regular analysis to
inform the reform program. An important achievement has been that a previously dysfunctional data
monitoring system was turned around in less than a year since the reform began, such that
policymakers at all tiers of government can now engage in discussion which is informed by timely
and credible analyses and reports.       Another commendable achievement has been the timely
implementation of several critical inputs such as stipends and textbooks distribution.

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

While it is too soon to assess impact, emerging outcomes of the reform program in public schools
have been quite promising.      The reform program has already fostered broad changes such as
increased financial resources devoted to the education sector, a new cadre of contract teachers being
recruited, improvements in school infrastructure, and restructuring of the data monitoring system to




                                                  10

inform credible policy dialogue. This unison of positive outcomes so early into the reform program is
encouraging.

Given that the macro-economic outlook for Punjab remains on sound footing and that the reform
program continues to be supported by political commitment and ownership at the highest levels in the
Provincial Government, the reform program should stay on track as long as: (a) there is continuing
political support and commitment; (b) there are no major external macro shocks; (c) the capacity
bottlenecks at the district level can be addressed in a timely manner; and (d) the Government
continues to appoint and retain high performing civil servants at critical implementation agencies to
consolidate and sustain the reform program. However, the reforms are still fragile, and continued
attention is required to avoid the risk of complacency setting in because of the initial success.


It is critical that the momentum be sustained, and that the programmatic approach remain flexible
enough to accommodate lessons learned from ongoing activities and changes in ground realities ­
while maintaining overall coherence and direction of the reform. As new information becomes
available on school enrollments, there might be a need to prioritize between various upgradation
schemes as well. It is essential to articulate a clear vision of the role of the private sector in this
reform program. Besides potentially expanding and modifying existing interventions, there is a need
to strengthen governance and accountability mechanisms of existing interventions. For example, it is
widely held that contract teachers will be less likely to be absent from class compared to regular
teachers. It is still not clear as to how contract teachers, or any teacher for that matter, will be exactly
held accountable to the state or to the community. There is a need to closely monitor and regulate
targeted interventions such as stipends and textbooks. Additionally and importantly, it is necessary to
focus on bringing improvements in the quality of teaching and materials. More focused programs to
strengthen the capacity of district governments are also required, including in the area of monitoring,
and of school councils to enhance parental and community participation in school-level decision
making. Further, to respond to the growing demands and pressure on the public school system,
subsequent operations will have to consider reforms beyond the elementary sector to include the
secondary level, as well as address the access gap by including the private sector under the umbrella
of reforms.

While initially viewed as a three year operation, it is a long term program and therefore the Bank
could consider a longer commitment as long as there continues to be well documented and sustained
improvements in educational outcomes in Punjab. Beyond improving school governance, enrollment
and completion rates, improving teacher quality and pupil learning will require a more involved
commitment. Such fundamental structural changes require a longer time horizon than originally
envisaged.




                                                     11

                                                                                                                                                               Annex 1

                                                 PUNJAB EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM (PESRP)
                                                             UPDATED MATRIX OF POLICY REFORMS

   Prior Actions Taken by First                   Prior Actions by                             Triggers for                 GoPunjab's Outcomes and Monitorable Indicators
              Credit                               Second Credit*                             Third Credit*
                                                             I. Reform Pillar: Improving Public Sector Financing
1. Realignment of provincial and district public expenditure priorities.
OBJECTIVE: To ensure that public expenditure is appropriately allocated to meet the Province's education needs.
·   Letter of Sector                ·     Updated Letter of Sector               ·    Updated Letter of Sector              Outcome:
    Development Policy issued             Development Policy issued by Punjab         Development Policy issued by          ·   Satisfactory Implementation of MTBF.
    by Punjab Government.                 Government.                                 Punjab Government.
                                                                                                                            Monitorable Indicators:
                                                                                                                            ·   Sector progress in line with the Sector
·   Overall education budget        ·     Education budget approved for          ·    Approve education budget for              Development Policy Letter.
    increased in FY04 by 20%.             2004-05 showing at least a 15%              2005-06 showing at least a 12%        ·   At least 50% increase in provincial education
                                          increase.                                   increase.                                 sector allocation by the end of the three-year
                                                                                                                                period.
                                                                                                                            ·   Provincial education expenditures include an
·   Medium term provincial          ·     MTBF updated.                          ·    Update MTBF.                              increased level of non-salary expenditures.
    budget framework (MTBF)
    developed which gives           ·     Ensure fiscal sustainability of the    ·    Sustain fiscal sustainability of the  Monitoring Instrument:
    priority to increasing                program by creating fiscal space            program by creating fiscal space      ·   Annual provincial and district budgets.
    provincial expenditures on            through improved debt management,           through improved debt                 ·   MTBF
    education by more than 50%            enhancing own revenue and better            management, enhancing own
    over a 3-year period.                 prioritization and management of            revenue and better prioritization
                                          expenditure.                                and management of expenditure.

·   Approved budget for 2003-        ·    Provincial real education expenditures ·    Provincial real education
    2004 is within MTBF and               include an increased level of non-          expenditures include an increased
    already includes a 38%                salary expenditures.                        level for non-salary expenditures.
    increase in real per student
    expenditures in elementary                                                   ·    Increase the level of real middle
    education.                                                                        school expenditures, from base
                                                                                      year 2004.




   *Actions in bold are Prior Actions for the first and second credits, and triggers for the third credit.

 PESRP ­ Updated Matrix of Policy Reforms ­ Annex 1                                                                                                                       Page 2



   Prior Actions Taken by First                       Prior Actions by                                 Triggers for                GoPunjab's Outcomes and Monitorable Indicators
              Credit                                  Second Credit*                                  Third Credit*
                                                  II. Reform Pillar: Support Devolution and Public Sector Management Reforms
1. Support Fiscal Decentralization
Objective: To facilitate the transfer of resources to the district governments in order to improve timely service delivery.
·   Annual performance targets         ·    Annual performance targets agreed to      ·     Annual performance targets agreed      Outcome:
    agreed to in the TOPs.                  in the TOPs.                                    to in the TOPs.                       · Improved Service Delivery and district
                                                                                                                                     accountability.
·   Conditional grants under           ·    At least 20 TOPs signed with district     ·     At least 25 TOPs signed for FY06,
    the Punjab Education Sector             governments for FY05, with agreed               with agreed annual performance         Monitorable Indicators:
    Reform Program fully                    annual performance targets, and                 targets.                              · Three-quarters of districts increase their own
    transferred to the districts            PESRP funds for these districts                                                          contribution levels to education.
    Account 4 on signature of               transferred to Account 4.                                                             · Three-quarters of the districts increase the share
    the TOPs. At least 30 TOPs                                                                                                       of non-salary recurrent expenditures.
    signed.                            ·    Provide PESRP conditional grants to       ·     Provide PESRP conditional grants to   · FY2004 and 2005 - Annual TOPs show gradual
                                            districts using a formula that reflects         districts using a formula, which         improvements in the output and outcome
                                            both need and performance.                      reflects both need and performance.      indicators.
                                                                                                                                  · Increased utilization rate of conditional grants by
                                       ·    Performance and need based window                                                        district governments.
                                            included in new PFC formula.                                                          · District education departments' financial
                                                                                                                                     management and monitoring capacities
                                       ·    Design and initiate implementation of     ·     District capacity building programs      improved.
                                            district capacity building programs.            fully implemented in at least half the
                                                                                            districts.                             Monitoring Instrument:
                                                                                                                                  · District budgets
                                       ·    50% of districts increased the level      ·                                           · Quarterly expenditure reports.
                                                                                            Districts increase the level of non-
                                            of district non salary recurrent                salary recurrent expenditures in
                                            budget for education.                           their education budget.




  *Actions in bold are Prior Actions for the first and second credits, and triggers for the third credit.

 PESRP ­ Updated Matrix of Policy Reforms ­ Annex 1                                                                                                                  Page 3




   Prior Actions Taken by First                    Prior Actions by                           Triggers for                    GoPunjab's Outcomes and Monitorable Indicators
              Credit                               Second Credit*                           Second Credit*
2. Improve Financial Management and Procurement
Objective: To increase transparency of financial management processes and strengthening the provincial and district capacity for monitoring financial flows.
·   Program Monitoring Unit         ·    Institute regular reporting (quarterly ·   Regular reporting of financial flows     Outcome:
    (PMIU) established in the            with a lag of 2 months) of financial       (quarterly with a lag of 6 weeks) by     ·   Improved expenditure tracking and reporting
    Department of Education              flows by the PMIU on expenditures,         the PMIU on expenditures, outputs            and financial management in the education
    (DOE) with responsibility for        outputs and outcomes.                      and outcomes.                                sector.
    expenditure reporting.

                                                                                                                             Monitorable indicators:
·   Accounting procedures           ·    Fortnightly DAC meetings to review     ·   Fortnightly DAC meetings to              ·   Timeliness of expenditure tracking improved.
    developed to track program           and settle all arising audit               review and settle all arising audit      ·   Delays in DAC reviews and settlement of audit
    expenditures.                        observations (paras) in the                observations (paras) in the                  paras. progressively reduced.
                                         Provincial Account No. 1, as well as       Provincial Account No. 1, as well        ·   Number of finance and accounting staff
                                         progressively clear backlogs.              as progressively clear backlogs for          deployed in education offices.
                                                                                    at least FYs 2002 and 2003.
                                    ·    Adopt new chart of accounts under the                                               Monitoring Instruments:
                                         PIFRA project.                                                                      ·   Quarterly reports of financial flows based on
                                                                                                                                 agreed specimen reporting formats.
                                    ·    Computerize financial management       ·   Continue to computerize financial        ·   Minutes of fortnightly DAC meetings.
                                         processes for the program.                 management processes.                    ·   Personnel register of recruited finance and
                                                                                                                                 accounting staff.
·   Recruitment of 250 qualified    ·    Initiate the recruitment process and   ·   At least 150 additional qualified
    finance and accounting               design the training and deployment of      finance and accounting staff
    personnel authorized in the          the 50 qualified finance and accounting    recruited, trained and assigned.
    district and provincial              personnel
    departments.


·   District capacity building      ·    District capacity building programs    ·   District capacity building programs
    programs financed in the             financed and implemented.                  financed and implemented.
    PESRP program budget.
                                    ·    Provincial Financial Accountability    ·   Provincial Financial Accountability
                                         Assessment initiated                       Assessment conducted.


      * Actions in bold are Prior Actions for the first and second credits, and triggers for the third credit.

 PESRP ­ Updated Matrix of Policy Reforms ­ Annex 1                                                                                                             Page 4




  Prior Actions Taken by First                   Prior Actions by                            Triggers for                GoPunjab's Outcomes and Monitorable Indicators
              Credit                             Second Credit*                             Third Credit*
Objective: To improve transparency in procurement procedures and practices.
·   Removal of requirements for     ·   CSR replaced with realistic cost                                                 Outcomes:
    pre-registration of                 estimates based on prevailing market                                            ·    Ex post procurement reviews show greater
    contractors commenced, and          rates, and updated regularly through                                                 compliance with government procedures.
    development of streamlined          independent surveys of market rates.
    standard procurement                                                                                                 Monitorable indicators:
    guidelines for goods                                                                                                 ·   Increase in participation of bidders, reduction in
    purchases.                                                                                                               number of deviations observed in ex-post
                                                                                                                             procurement reviews, and reduction in the
·   Threshold for community         ·   Threshold for community contracting     ·  Evaluation initiated of School            number of complaints.
    contracting increased to Rs.        further increased to Rs. 400,000 with      Councils use of development funds
    200,000 and provision of            provision of greater authority to school                                         Monitoring Instrument:
    greater authority to school         councils to manage and implement                                                 ·   Ex-post procurement reviews.
    councils to manage and              these contracts.                                                                 ·   Field verification reports.
    implement these contracts.


·   Notify and adopt standard       ·   Streamlined standard procurement
    specifications for furniture        guidelines adapted for goods purchases
    procurement.                        consistent with international best
                                        practices.

                                    ·   Independent ex-post procurement         ·  Carry out annual independent ex-
                                        review on a sample basis                   post procurement reviews on a
                                        commissioned.                              sample basis.

                                                                                ·  Establish effective mechanisms for
                                                                                   quality assurances and end-use
                                                                                   verification of contracts for goods,
                                                                                   works and consultants' services.

                                                                                ·  Maintain public database of bids
                                                                                   received, contracts awarded, and
                                                                                   complaints received.




* Actions in bold are Prior Actions for the first and second credits, and triggers for the third credit.

 PESRP ­ Updated Matrix of Policy Reforms ­ Annex 1                                                                                                            Page 5




   Prior Actions Taken by First                   Prior Actions by                            Triggers for               GoPunjab's Outcomes and Monitorable Indicators
               Credit                             Second Credit*                             Third Credit*
·   Develop regular programs and    ·   Implement regular programs for           · Implement regular programs for
    schedule for capacity building      capacity building and training of          capacity building and training of
    and training of procurement         procurement staff at province and          procurement staff at province and
    staff at the province and           district level.                            district level.
    district level.




                                         III. Reform Pillar: Improving Quality, Access and Governance in the Education Sector
1. Improve Education Sector Governance
Objective: To improve education sector management (new reform objective).
                                    ·   Restructuring of the provincial          · Restructuring of remaining sections   Outcome:
                                        education department initiated, starting   of the provincial education           · More efficient sector management at provincial
                                        with the Planning Wing.                    department.                             and district levels.
                                                                                 · EMIS and PMIU monitoring
                                                                                   systems fully integrated into the      Monitorable indicators:
                                                                                   Planning Wing.
                                                                                                                         · Provincial Education district departments
                                                                                                                           planning and monitoring capacities improved.
                                    ·   Process initiated for reorganization and · Assess feasibility of establishing an · District Education department's planning and
                                        reconfiguration of functions of district   education administrative cadre.         monitoring capacities strengthened.
                                        education management cadre.

                                    ·   Specially selected district education                                            Monitorable Instruments:
                                        managers and monitoring officers                                                 · Provincial and District Annual Sector Plans and
                                        appointed in all districts to improve                                              monitoring reports.
                                        quality of education management.


Objective: To improve teacher management, including better recruitment practices.
·   Transparent criteria to         ·   An increasing percentage of all          · Assess the impact of site-specific    Outcome:
    recruit new school-specific         elementary teaching staff under school     contract based teacher recruitment    ·   More efficient teacher management, merit
    teachers established,               specific fixed term contracts rather       policy, including improvement in          based teacher recruitment, and reduction in
    favoring recruitment of             than under the standard civil service      teacher attendance, and corrective        teacher absenteeism.
    women and local candidates.         recruitment rules (13,000 new teachers     action taken if necessary.
                                        recruited in FY04 under new school-
                                        specific contracts).




* Actions in bold are Prior Actions for the first and second credits, and triggers for the third credit.

 PESRP ­ Updated Matrix of Policy Reforms ­ Annex 1                                                                                                    Page 6




  Prior Actions Taken by First               Prior Actions by                           Triggers for              GoPunjab's Outcomes and Monitorable Indicators
             Credit                          Second Credit*                            Third Credit*
                                 ·  13,000 additional teachers recruited   ·  Recruit additional 19,000 contract  Monitorable indicators:
                                    under school specific contracts.          teachers, and complete the             2004- 20% of staff under site specific fixed
                                                                              recruitment of all vacant teaching     term contracts.
·  Temporary freeze of transfers ·  Ban lifted for recruitment of remaining   positions.                             2005 ­ 30% of staff under contracts as above.
   of education management staff    22,000 approved teacher vacancies.                                               2006- CWIQ results in 2006 shows that teacher
   to allow continuity.                                                                                              absenteeism reduced by at least 20% from
                                 ·  Female teachers eligible for                                                     CWIQ results in 2005.
                                    appointment in boys' middle schools.                                             Annual third party surveys show improvement
                                                                                                                     in teacher attendance.
                                                                                                                      Increase in number of female teachers.

                                 ·  Process initiated for comprehensive    ·  Redeployment of teachers based      Monitoring Instruments:
                                    review of school based teacher needs,     on the rationalization exercise and    CWIQ survey; Independent third party surveys;
                                    including through rationalization and     creation of new posts where            Teacher Management Study; EMIS data.
                                    creation of new posts where needed.       needed.

                                 ·  Develop performance criteria to        ·  Implementation of new performance
                                    determine teacher performance.            criteria.

                                                                           ·  Establish incentives to reward good
                                                                              performance of elementary teachers.

                                 ·  Assess teacher management systems.     ·  Develop and implement an action
                                                                              plan for improved teacher
                                                                              management systems.
                                 ·  External assessment of the quality of
                                    newly recruited contract teachers to
                                    determine the effectiveness of the new
                                    teacher recruitment policy.




* Actions in bold are Prior Actions for the first and second credits, and triggers for the third credit.

 PESRP ­ Updated Matrix of Policy Reforms ­ Annex 1                                                                                                                 Page 7




  Prior Actions Taken by First                      Prior Actions by                              Triggers for                GoPunjab's Outcomes and Monitorable Indicators
             Credit                                  Second Credit*                              Third Credit*

Objective: To revitalize school councils in order to monitor school performance and ensure school maintenance.
·   Guidelines issued by the         ·     NGOs selected to build capacity of      ·   Implement phased program to           Outcome:
    provincial government                  School Councils (6 districts selected to    spread School Council capacity        ·   Improved school monitoring, and reduction in
    clarifying the role of school          implement the program).                     building across additional districts.     teacher absenteeism.
    councils, including their
    authority to undertake small     ·     Policy guidelines issued by provincial  ·   All districts provide school based
    procurement of works,                  government for establishment of             budgets.
    spend funds allocated to               school based budgets.
    them, and to monitor
    teacher absenteeism.

·   Role of School Councils          ·     School based budget allocated in 50%    ·   Implement school based budget in      Monitorable indicators:
    included in TOPS.                      of districts                                all districts                         ·   2004-School councils functional in 20% of
                                                                                                                                 schools.
                                     ·     Allocate and implement school budget                                              ·   2006 ­ School councils functional in 50% of
                                           to School Councils.                                                                   schools.
                                                                                                                             ·   2006 ­ all functional School Councils provided
                                     ·     District performance indicator in       ·   District performance indicator in         budget for school level development and
                                           TOPS includes role of School Councils       TOPS includes role of School              recurring expenditures
                                           in school monitoring and provision of       Councils in school monitoring and     ·   School Councils utilize allocated school
                                           inputs including learning materials,        provision of inputs including             budgets.
                                           and developmental work.                     learning materials, and development
                                                                                       work.                                 Monitoring instrument:
                                                                                                                             ·   Annual Third party surveys; and EMIS data on
                                                                                                                                 school councils.




* Actions in bold are Prior Actions for the first and second credits, and triggers for the third credit.

 PESRP ­ Updated Matrix of Policy Reforms ­ Annex 1                                                                                                                  Page 8




  Prior Actions Taken by First                    Prior Actions by                             Triggers for                GoPunjab's Outcomes and Monitorable Indicators
             Credit                               Second Credit*                              Third Credit*
Objective: To strengthen monitoring & evaluation in order to gauge education performance outcomes and to use these to improve and re-adjust the education policies.
·   Baseline indicators of          ·   Report progress on baseline indicators   ·  Commission repeat survey of           Outcome:
    education performance               to assess performance of the reform         baseline indicators to assess         ·    Improved monitoring & evaluation, with timely
    established for the reform          program.                                    performance of the reform program.         corrective actions.
    program, based on field
    survey.

·   Monitoring targets agreed       ·   Monitoring targets agreed with the       ·  Monitoring targets agreed with the
    with the districts and              districts and included in the signed        districts and included in the signed
    included in the signed TOPs.        TOPs.                                       TOPs.

·   A PMIU established in the       ·   A credible education sector monitoring
    provincial education                and evaluation system fully established
    department.                         in PMIU, with regular data analysis to
                                        gauge outcomes and readjust the
                                        program.
·   Approve development of an       ·   Education awareness campaign                                                      Monitorable Indicators:
    education awareness campaign        launched.                                                                         ·    FY2005 - Second Annual Third party survey
    for disseminating information                                                                                              shows improvements in: textbook delivery and
    about the reform program.       ·   EMIS integrated with Planning Wing                                                     availability; distribution of girls' scholarships;
                                        of Education Department, and district                                                  school infrastructure; and teacher presence.
                                        EMIS cells strengthened.                                                          ·    2005 ­ Monitoring of baseline indicators shows
                                                                                                                               improvements in both output and outcome
                                    ·   Independent third party surveys          ·  Implement independent third                indicators.
                                        commissioned to assess availability         party surveys to assess availability  ·    2005 ­ EMIS data shows improvements in
                                        of textbooks and stipends at the            of textbooks and stipends in FY05.         enrolment and retention at primary level.
                                        school level.                                                                     ·    EMIS data shows increased girls' enrolment
                                                                                                                               and retention in middle grades.
                                    ·   Performance indicators from the M&E      ·  Performance indicators from the
                                        system made publicly available by           M&E system made publicly              Monitoring Instrument:
                                        mid-FY05.                                   available by mid-FY06.                ·    Annual third party surveys; repeat survey of
                                                                                                                               baseline indicators; EMIS census data.




* Actions in bold are Prior Actions for the first and second credits, and triggers for the third credit.

 PESRP ­ Updated Matrix of Policy Reforms ­ Annex 1                                                                                                                 Page 9




   Prior Actions Taken by First                     Prior Actions by                           Triggers for                  GoPunjab's Outcomes and Monitorable Indicators
               Credit                               Second Credit*                            Third Credit*
2. Improve Quality and Access
Objective: To improve equitable access to education.
·   Free schooling announced         ·    Free textbooks reach 75% of primary     ·  Free textbooks reach 80% of             Outcome:
    up to matriculation level             students in time.                          primary and elementary students in     ·    Improved access to education, especially for
    (10th Grade).                                                                    time.                                       girls and the poor.

·   Policy of free textbooks         ·    Policy of free textbooks extended for                                              Monitorable Indicators:
    announced for primary                 elementary school students.                                                       ·    NER for primary Government enrollments
    school students.                                                                                                             improved from 39% (in 2003) to 44% (in 2005).
                                     ·    Implement procedures for making non-                                              ·    Increased primary completion rates in
·   Introduced a special                  functional schools functional,                                                         government schools from 45% in 2003 to 55%
    scholarship program for all           including rationalization of non-viable ·  Recruit female teachers for schools         in 2005.
    girls in grades 6-8, targeted         schools.                                   where the catchment area does not      ·    2005 - Girls drop out rate between grades 5 and
    initially to 15 disadvantaged                                                    justify two separate schools for boys       6 reduced by 20% in 2 years.
    districts with low literacy                                                      and girls.                             ·    2005 ­ Gender Gap reduced in government
    levels.                                                                                                                      primary and middle schools.
                                     ·    School census conducted in October      · Expand the girls' scholarship           ·    2006 ­ Girls drop out rate reduced by 20% in
·   District education profiles           2004 to document changes in girls'        program, based on evaluation                 middle schools in targeted districts.
    developed by District                 enrolment in grades 6-8 for               results.                                ·    2006 ­ Gross Middle enrolment rate for girls
    Governments, including list           initiating an impact evaluation of the                                                 increased from 43% to 53% in 2 years in
    of missing facilities finalized       girls' stipend program.                                                                targeted districts.
    by the District Government.                                                                                             ·    2005 - at least 25% missing facilities provided
                                     ·    Improve existing school infrastructure  ·  Continued progress in improving             to schools.
·   Selection criteria for sites for      through provision of basic facilities      existing school infrastructure         ·    2006­ at least 60% missing facilities provided
    the first year finalized.             such as boundary walls for girls'          through provision of basic facilities,      to schools.
                                          schools, additional classrooms, and        and overall infrastructure             ·    2006- All viable non-functional schools made
                                          overall infrastructure rehabilitation.     rehabilitation.                             functional.

                                     ·    During 2004, all schools provided       ·  During 2005, all schools provided       Monitoring Instruments:
                                          missing facilities are fully functional    missing facilities are fully functional·    EMIS data; PIHS survey; repeat survey of
                                          with the provision of teachers, in         with the provision of teachers, in          baseline indicators.
                                          accordance with the prescribed norms.      accordance with the prescribed
                                                                                     norms.




* Actions in bold are Prior Actions for the first and second credits, and triggers for the third credit.

 PESRP ­ Updated Matrix of Policy Reforms ­ Annex 1                                                                                                            Page 10




  Prior Actions Taken by First                      Prior Actions by                            Triggers for               GoPunjab's Outcomes and Monitorable Indicators
             Credit                                 Second Credit*                             Third Credit*
Objective: To ensure the provision of quality education through improved teaching and materials.
·   A system of on-going training    ·    Reorganized Education                  ·    Restructured teacher training        Outcome:
    established to train every            Department's Directorate of Staff           program under implementation.        · Improve quality of education and improve
    teacher every three years.            Development for delivery of teacher                                                student learning.
                                          professional development programs.     ·    Two year action plan prepared for
                                                                                      professional development of
                                                                                      teachers including training and
                                                                                      ongoing support.


·   Independent evaluation           ·    Framework developed for ongoing        ·    Independent review of new teacher    Monitorable indicators:
    completed to improve the              professional development of teachers        development program initiated.       · 2005- 50% of primary school teachers are
    content of the teacher training       and education management staff.                                                    provided teaching guides for textbooks that are
    program to make it more                                                      ·    Make teacher guides available to all   not being replaced.
    relevant.                        ·    Action plan for one year prepared for       the teachers.
                                          professional development of teachers                                             · 2006 ­ 25% teachers trained under new program
                                          including training and ongoing         ·    Develop distance learning teacher    · 2005 ­ All textbooks coming up for renewal to be
                                          support.                                    education program.                     developed by authors external to the textbook
                                                                                                                             board
                                                                                                                           · 2005 ­ Textbook printing and publishing opened
·   Establishment of a system of     ·    Pilot testing of student learning      ·    Use NEAS testing instrument to test    to competition.
    on-going student assessment           achievements conducted in Grade 4 as        student learning achievement in      · 2006 ­ Textbooks by external authors published
    through Grade 4, coupled with         part of the NEAS program.                   Grade 8.                             · 2005 ­ Student performance (marks in student
    promotion exams.                                                                                                         assessment) improved from the baseline ­ as
                                     ·    Develop a more extensive student                                                   assessed through NEAS.
                                          learning assessment system.




* Actions in bold are Prior Actions for the first and second credits, and triggers for the third credit.

 PESRP ­ Updated Matrix of Policy Reforms ­ Annex 1                                                                                                           Page 11




  Prior Actions Taken by First                     Prior Actions by                            Triggers for               GoPunjab's Outcomes and Monitorable Indicators
             Credit                                Second Credit*                             Third Credit*
·   Announced policy to open        ·    Textbook printing and publishing         ·   Open up textbook printing and
    up textbook development to           opened to competition, beginning             publishing of other textbooks.      Monitoring instrument:
    authors external to the              with the Primer.                                                                · NEAS; evaluation of restructured teacher
    textbook board.                                                                                                         professional development program; textbooks
                                    ·    Opened up new textbook development                                                 developed, published and printed through
                                         to authors external to the textbook                                                competition.
                                         board.

                                    ·    Quality of print, paper and layout of    ·   Quality of print, paper and layout
                                         textbooks for Grades 6 ­ 8 improved          improved for primary school
                                         through notification of quality              textbooks.
                                         standards guidelines.




Objective: To expand access to education through innovative public private partnerships.
·   Cabinet approval of draft       ·    PEF restructured.                        ·   PEF fully functional.               Outcome:
    law for restructuring the                                                                                             · Access to low cost education expanded through
    Punjab Education                                                                                                        public private partnerships.
    Foundation (PEF).               ·    Notification issued for the              ·   Continued budget support to PEF.
                                         establishment of the PEF Board.

                                    ·    Initiate recruitment process of the
                                         Managing Director of PEF.




* Actions in bold are Prior Actions for the first and second credits, and triggers for the third credit.

 PESRP ­ Updated Matrix of Policy Reforms ­ Annex 1                                                                                                      Page 12




  Prior Actions Taken by First                Prior Actions by                           Triggers for                GoPunjab's Outcomes and Monitorable Indicators
             Credit                           Second Credit*                            Third Credit*
·  Continued implementation of    ·  Provision of budget support to the                                              Monitorable indicators:
   a public private partnership      Foundation for FY05.                                                           ·   2005- At least 75% of PEF resources to schools
   program under which 7000                                                                                             in disadvantaged urban and rural areas.
   government school buildings                                               · PEF Board evaluates impact of its    ·   Private school census conducted.
   have been leased to the private                                             programs on the disadvantaged        ·   Enrollment in low cost private schools
   sector for running afternoon                                                groups.                                  increased.
   schools.
                                                                             · Implement policies to facilitate      Monitoring Instrument:
                                                                               development of low cost private      ·   PEF annual reports; and PIHS survey.
                                  ·  Develop framework for expanding           schooling.
                                     existing public/private partnerships to
                                     increase coverage of the education
                                     system.
                                                                             · Complete private school census.



                                                                             · Develop a vision and strategy for the
                                                                               private sector.




* Actions in bold are Prior Actions for the first and second credits, and triggers for the third credit.

                                                                                        Annex 2

       Table 1: Punjab -- Medium-Term Fiscal Framework, 2002/03-2005/06
                                             (percent of provincial GDP)
                                    2002/03      2003/04          Projections
                                    P.Actual     Revised       2004/05      2005/06

Revenue Receipts                         6.36         6.98          6.97       7.56
 Federal Tax Transfers                   4.62         4.49          4.93       5.70
 Provincial Revenue                      1.23         1.51          1.46       1.47
   Tax Revenue                           0.56         0.77          0.75       0.76
    Non-Tax revenue                      0.66         0.74          0.71       0.71
Grants                                   0.51         0.81          0.35       0.00
Punjab Development Fund                  0.00         0.00          0.04       0.05
Local Government Revenue                 0.00         0.17          0.19       0.34


Total Expenditure                        6.23         7.23          7.65       7.95
 Current Expenditure                     5.13         5.55          5.23       5.20
 Development Expenditure                 1.10         1.68          2.42       2.75


Fiscal Balance                           0.12        -0.26         -0.69       -0.39


Financing                               -0.12         0.26          0.32       0.13
 Net Domestic Borrowing                 -0.06         0.92         -0.49       -0.46
 Net Foreign Borrowing                   0.29        -0.66          0.58       0.45
 Cash Balance Utilization               -0.36         0.00          0.23       0.13


Memo items
 Financing GAP before IDA                0.01         0.00         -0.37       -0.27
 Education Expenditure                   0.02         0.02          0.02       0.02
 Pro-Poor Expenditure                    0.03         0.04          0.06       0.07

                                            Annex 2
                                                                                       Page 2




          Table 1: Punjab ­ Medium-Term Fiscal Framework, 2002/03-2005/06

                                   (Amounts in Rs billion)

                                    2002/03      2003/04            Projections
                                   P. Actual    Revised       2004/05         2005/06

Revenue Receipts                      135.011      164.416       186.021        224.784
 Federal Tax Transfers                 98.076      105.751       131.648        169.572
 Provincial Revenue                    26.063        35.569       39.073          43.711
   Tax Revenue                         11.954        18.188       20.125          22.660
   Non-Tax Revenue                     14.109        17.381       18.949          21.052
Grants                                 10.872        19.096        9.300           0.000
Punjab Development Fund                 0.000          0.000       1.000           1.500
Local Government Revenue                0.000          4.000       5.000          10.000

Total Expenditure                     132.370      170.498       204.366        236.508
 Current Expenditure                  108.913      130.918       139.772        154.570
 Development Expenditure \1            23.457        39.580       64.594          81.938

Fiscal Balance                          2.641        -6.082      -18.345         -11.725
 (Percent of Provincial GDP)            0.1%          -0.3%        -0.7%           -0.4%

Financing                              -2.641          6.082       8.593           3.765
 Net Domestic Borrowing                -1.245        21.593      -13.106         -13.600
 Net Foreign Borrowing                  6.235       -15.564       15.600          13.365
 Cash Balance Utilization              -7.631          0.053       6.099           4.000


Memo items: (as a % of Provincial GDP)
 Education Expenditure                  1.6%           1.8%        2.0%            2.3%
 Health Expenditure                     0.5%           0.6%        0.8%            0.9%
 Pro-Poor Expenditure                   3.5%           4.2%        5.7%            6.5%

                                                                          Annex 3: Borrower comments

                                                                                NO.SO (P-I) 11-1/2005(2)
                                                                   GOVERNMENT OF THE PUNJAB
                                                                         EDUCATION DEPARTMENT
                                                                       Dated Lahore, the 22nd March, 2005

To:           The Chairman
              Planning & Development Board,
              Government of the Punjab
              Lahore.

Subject:      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT OF THE WORLD BANK

              This is with reference to Implementation completion Report of World Bank on Education
Sector Adjustment Credit for the Government of Punjab date 9th March, 2005.

       1.             Education Department's comments are as follows:

              i.      Institutional and reform aspects. The performance of PESRP has been very

                      satisfactory. The performance rating mentioned in ICR does not reflect and

                      should be appropriately adjusted.

              ii.     TPV carried out by Agha Khan University for teacher training should be

                      incorporated.

              iii.    School Councils. Every collective forum ultimately withers aware unless it has

                      3 basic ingredients: (a) leadership; (b) institutional support and patronage; and (c)

                      resource based decision-making authority. Previous school Councils had all 3

                      mission. The present ones are an improvement.

              iv.     Programme monitoring and evaluation. PESRP has a fairly good monitoring

                      and evaluation system. But effective follow up for the corrective actions need to

                      be further strengthened.

              v.      Improved teaching and materials. Improved teaching through better training

                      will only have an impact if it is combined with improved management. A proper

                      management cadre within Education System is the need of hour.                  DSD

                      management will also need considerable improvement if it has to deliver these

                      ambitious targets.



                                                                                      (JAVAID ASLAM)

                                                                             SECRETARY EDUCATION

                                                   60°                                            65°                                             70°                            TAJIKISTAN              75°



                                                                        PAKISTAN                                                                                                                                               C H I N A


                                       PUNJAB EDUCATION SECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                       R.
                                                   ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                                                                                                                                                       Kunar                                  Gilgit
                                                                                                                                                                      Chitral                                        Indus

                                                                         PROJECT PROVINCE                                                                                                                                     R.

                                                                         SELECTED CITIES                                                                                N.W.F.P.
                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                         MAIN ROADS

            35°                                                          RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                           Mardan
                                                                         RIVERS                                                                                                                                       Approximate                    35°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Line of Control
                                                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                    Peshawar
                                                                                                                                                            Kahat                                ISLAMABAD                    JAMMU
                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                            Rawalpindi                                    and KASHMIR

                                                                                                                                                    Bannu
                                                                                                                                                                                              Jhelum

                                                  0                100           200      300 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                            Mianwali  Khushab            R.         Gujrat
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sialkot
                                                  0               50           100      150        200 MILES
                                                                                                                                                                                         Sargodha
                                                                                                                                                    D.I.Khan                                                   Gujranwala

                                                                                                                                                                Bhakkar    JhelumPUNJAB                 Lahore
                                                                                                                                                                      Jhana
                                                                    AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                Faisalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                   R.               Kasur

                                                                                                                      Zhob
                                                                                                                                     R.                                                      Ravi
                                                                                                                                                                                     Sahiwal


             30°                                                                                             Quetta                                  D.G.
                                                                                                                                                     Khan           Multan                   R.                                                       30°

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bahawalnagar
                                                                                                                                                                                 Sutlej
                                                                                                                      Sibi

                                                                                                                                                                      Bahawalpur

                                                                                                       Kalat

                                                                                    B A L O C H I S T A N                                                                                                       I N D I A

                                                                                                                                                        Rahimyar Khan

              I S L A M I C R E P.
                                                                                                      Khuzdar                             R.

                  O F I R A N                                                                                           Sukkur
                                                                                                                                          Rohri                                                               75°

                                                                                                               Larkana     Indus
                                                                                             R.                                      Canal                                                    65°     UZBEK.      70°        TAJIKISTAN         75° CHINA
                                                                            Panjgur                                                                                                                           TAJIK.
                                                                                          Nal                                                                                    TURKMENISTAN
                                                                                                              Dokri

                                                                                                                                 Nara
             25°                                                                                                                                                       35°
                                                                                                  Bela                      Nawabshah                                                                                                                     35°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ··
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N.W.F.P.   ········ ·· ····· ·· · ·
                                                                                                                                                                 25°                                                                            Approx. Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ···
                                                                                                                                                                                         A F G H A N I S TA N                                ·  of Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ···    JAMMU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Islamabad          ··
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·· ·      AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ·
                                                                                                                                S I N D H                                                                                                      ·KASHMIR



                                                                                                               Hyderabad
                                              Gwadar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PUNJAB
                                                                                                                                                                       30°                                                                                30°

                                                                                                   Karachi            Thatta         Badin                                                                 PAKISTAN

                                                        A R A B I A N         S E A                                                                                                      BALOCHISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                       ISLAMIC                                                    I N D I A
                                                                                                                                                                       REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                        IRAN

                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
JANUAR          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                                                                       SINDH
                on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                          Mouths of                                                                                                                                            IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                       25°                                                                                25°
                judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                        the Indus

      Y         acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       32904
       2004                                                                                                                                                                Arabian        Sea
                                  60°                                                      65°                                                    70°
                                                                                                                                                                                             65°                    70°                              75°

