Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3855 PAK 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Punjab Education Sector Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB 
 
Dated February 20, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3855 PAK 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 20, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the PROVINCE OF PUNJAB 
acting by its Governor (Punjab). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Islamic Republic of 
Pakistan (the Borrower) a letter dated
 
May 6, 2003,
 
transmitting to the Association a 
letter from Punjab dated April 22, 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to 
enhance access and quality of education
 in Punjab (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring Punjab’s commitment to the execution of the Program and 
the Borrower’s support thereto, and requesting assistance from the Association in support 
of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
Punjab has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
the Schedule to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained 
a
macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the Borrower’s macroeconomic 
framework satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(C) 
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-nine million five hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 69,500,000) on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Punjab agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(D) 
the Program will be carried out by Punjab with the Borrower’s assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Punjab the local 
currency equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS Punjab, in consideration of the Association entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
Definition 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Program 
 
Section 2.01. (a) Punjab declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Program and, to this end, shall carry out the Program with due diligence and efficiency, 
and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Program. 
 
(b) 
Punjab shall make available to each District Government its duly 
allocated share as a grant in a timely manner.  
 
Section 2.02. (a) Punjab shall from time to time, at the request of the Association, 
and with the participation of the Borrower, exchange views with the Association with 
regard to the progress of the Program, the actions specified in the Schedule to this 
Agreement, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, Punjab shall furnish to the 
Association and the Borrower for their review and comments a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request. 
 
(c) 
Punjab shall promptly inform the Association and the Borrower of any 
condition, which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Program, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Punjab of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Section, Punjab shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to 
be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) For the purpose of assisting in the implementation and 
monitoring of the Program, Punjab shall maintain the Program Monitoring and 
Page  4
-
3
-
Implementation Unit established within its Education Department in a form and with 
powers, functions, structures, staff and resources satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provision of Section 2.04 of this Agreement, the 
Program Monitoring and Implementation Unit referred to in paragraph (a) above shall 
supervise, monitor and coordinate with all the agencies implementing the Program, and 
shall produce quarterly reports consisting of: (i) the fiscal and financial management 
targets; (ii) progress in the implementation of specific measures agreed under the medium 
term reform program; and (iii) data on outcomes from surveys and other sources when 
these become available. 
 
Section 2.04. Punjab shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, including the impact of implementation of the Program on the poor; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, within forty-five (45) days of the receipt of the report and thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the Program and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) Punjab shall use the amounts transferred to it by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement in support of the 
Program. Punjab undertakes that no proceeds of any such amounts shall be used to 
finance expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of Punjab during the 
procurement or execution of such contract, unless and until Punjab shall have taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any such 
amount shall have been used to make a payment for any expenditure not consistent with 
paragraph (a) above, Punjab shall, promptly upon request from the Association, refund 
such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) Punjab shall, not later than thirty (30) days of  the receipt of the 
Rupee amount transferred to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02(c) of the 
Development Credit Agreement provide confirmation to the Association showing the 
date and the Rupee amounts received from the Borrower and stating that such amounts 
have been credited into the Consolidated Account of Punjab on that same day. 
 
(b) 
Upon the Association’s request, Punjab shall, not later than sixty (60) 
days after the date of such request, provide to the Association an audit report by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association showing the date and the Rupee 
amounts transferred by the Borrower to the Consolidated Account of Punjab pursuant to 
Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement.
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and 
Punjab thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify Punjab of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,  telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI)    
 
 
 
For Punjab: 
 
Chairman  
 
Planning and Development Board  
 
Government of Punjab  
 Lahore, 
Pakistan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
92-42-9210110 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Punjab may be 
taken or executed by the Chairman, Planning and Development Board, Government of 
Punjab, or such other person or persons as Punjab shall designate in writing, and Punjab 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Abid Hasan 
Acting Country Director, Pakistan 
 
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB 
 
By /s/ Khushnood Akhtar Lashari 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE  
 
Actions Referred to in  Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and in Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Project Agreement 
 
Improving Public Sector Financing
1. 
Punjab has developed a three-year medium term budget framework, which gives 
priority to increasing provincial expenditures on education by more than fifty percent 
over a three-year period. 
 
2. 
Punjab has approved its budget for the Fiscal Year 2003-2004 consistent with its 
medium term budget framework and includes a thirty-eight percent increase in real 
expenditures per student for elementary education, and an overall budget increase of 
20%.  
 
Support for Devolution and Public Sector Management Reforms
3. 
Punjab has made arrangements to transfer resources for the education sector to 
District Governments on signature of applicable Terms of Partnership (TOP) agreements, 
and has signed at least 25 TOPs. 
 
4. 
Punjab has developed satisfactory and acceptable accounting procedures to track 
various Program expenditures. 
 
 
5. 
Punjab has initiated procurement reforms, and has: (i) initiated process for the 
phased removal requirements for pre-registration of contractors; (ii) initiated 
development of streamlined standard procurement guidelines for purchase of goods. 
 
6. 
Punjab has increased thresholds for community contracting to Rs. 200,000, and 
conferred greater authority to School Councils to manage and implement these contracts. 
 
Improving Quality, Access and Governance in the Education Sector
7. 
Punjab has formulated transparent criteria for new school-specific teacher 
recruitment in districts that give preference to women and local teachers. 
 
8. 
Punjab has developed a Terms of Partnership with each of its District 
Governments, which include, among other things: (i) an agreement on the role of school 
councils; and (ii) monitoring targets for each district. 
 
9. 
Punjab has issued guidelines clarifying the role of school councils, including 
their authority to undertake small procurement of works, their authority to spend 
government funds allocated to them, and their responsibilities to monitor teacher 
absenteeism. 
Page  9
-
8
-
10. 
Punjab has reached agreement with its district governments as included in the 
Terms of Partnership on monitoring targets. 
 
11. 
Punjab has taken steps to introduce free schooling up to the matriculation level. 
 
 
12. 
Punjab has made provision to supply six million free textbooks for primary 
school students. 
 
13. 
Punjab has introduced a special scholarship program for girl students between 
grades 6 through 8, targeted initially at fifteen disadvantaged districts with low literacy 
levels. 
 
14. 
Punjab has announced a policy to open up text book development to authors 
external to the Textbook Board. 
 
15. 
Punjab’s cabinet has approved a draft law to restructure the Punjab Education 
Foundation and has submitted the draft law to the Assembly for approval. 
 
16. 
Punjab has carried out an independent evaluation of the teacher training program 
to make it more relevant to student learning. 
 
