                                           Document of
                                         The World Bank



                                                                                 Report No. 35465




                SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                           THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN


                       SECOND DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT FOR

                         THE GOVERNMENT OF PUNJAB PROVINCE


                                         Cr No. 40460-PAK

                                           MAY 15, 2006




Human Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region


 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
 of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
 authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
                               Effective as of December 1, 2005
                            Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (PKR)
                                      US$1 = PKR 59.95

                                GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                       July 1 ­ June 30

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB        Asian Development Bank
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBT        Cluster Based Training
CSR        Composite Schedule of Rates
CWIQ       Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire
CY         Calendar Year
DAC        Departmental Account Committee
DPC        Development Policy Credit
DMO        District Monitoring Officer
DSD        Directorate of Staff Development
EMIS       Education Management Information System
FAS        Financial Assistance to Schools
FY         Fiscal Year
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Agency
MDG        Millennium Development Goals
MTBF       Medium-Term Budget Framework
NEAS       National Education Assessment System
NFC        National Finance Commission
NGOs       Non-Governmental Organizations
PAC        Public Accounts Committee
PEDPC      Punjab Education Development Policy Credit
PEF        Punjab Education Foundation
PESAC      Punjab Education Sector Adjustment Credit
PESRP      Punjab Education Sector Reform Program
PFC        Provincial Finance Commission
PIHS       Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
PMIU       Program Monitoring and Implementation Unit
PSLSMS     Pakistan Social and Living Standard Measurement Survey
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SCs        School Councils
SECAL      Sectoral Adjustment Loan
TOP        Terms of Partnership
TPV        Third Party Validation
UPE        Universal Primary Enrollment




                        Vice President       :   Praful C. Patel
                        Country Director     :   John W. Wall
                        Sector Manager       :   Michelle Riboud
                        Team Leader          :   Tahseen Sayed

                              TABLE OF CONTENTS




  1.     Program Data...........................................................................1

  2.     Principal Performance Ratings.......................................................1

  3.     Program Description..................................................................2

  4.     Achievement of Objectives and Outputs...........................................2

  5.     Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome..........................8

  6.     Bank and Borrower Performance....................................................9

  7.     Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series...............9




ANNEXES

Annex 1  Reform Actions Supported Under PESAC and PEDPC II and Initial Impact
Annex 2  Baseline and Targets of PESRP




                                                i

                                Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                               For Programmatic Development Policy Lending

Operation ID: P083228                                                 Operation Name: Second Education Sector
                                                                      Development Policy Credit for Government of Punjab
                                                                      Province (PEDPC II)
Team Leader: Tahseen Sayed                                            TL Unit: SASHD
                                                                      Report Date: May 15, 2006

1. Program Data

                   Name:    Punjab Education Development Policy Credit II              L/C Number:
     Country/Department:    Human Development Sector                                       Region:   SAR

        Sector/subsector: Education
                  Theme: Decentralization, Governance, Improved Service Delivery

KEY DATES
                                                                                Original              Revised/Actual
     PCD/PR:                                                       Effective:   September 9, 2005     September 9, 2005
   Appraisal:     January 3, 2005                                      MTR:
    Approval:     July 1, 2005                                      Closing:    October 31, 2006      October 31, 2006



      Borrower/Implementing Agency:        Islamic Republic of Pakistan
                       Other Partners:     Government of Punjab



STAFF                           Current                                         At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful Patel                                    Praful Patel
Country Director:               John W. Wall                                    John W. Wall
Sector Manager:                 Michelle Riboud                                 Michelle Riboud
Team Leader at ICR:             Tahseen Sayed                                   Tahseen Sayed
ICR Primary Author:             Sofia Shakil

2. Principal Performance Ratings


(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)



                                           Outcome: S
                                       Sustainability: L
                  Institutional Development Impact: S
                                  Bank Performance: S
                             Borrower Performance: S



                                                      QAG (if available)               ICR
                                   Quality at Entry: N/A                               S
                    Operation at Risk at Any Time: N/A                                 No




                                                            1

3. Program Description

3.a. Description of Program

The Government of Punjab is implementing a three-year education sector reform program to enhance
access and improve quality of education and improve gender parity in Punjab. Key pillars of the Punjab
Education Sector Reform Program (PESRP) remain the same as in the Program supported by the first
credit as reviewed by the first ICR1 for this series: (A) public finance reforms to increase public spending
for education (and other pro-poor services) and to ensure fiscal sustainability; (B) reforms that strengthen
devolution and improve the fiduciary environment and governance; and (C) education sector reforms to
improve access, quality and sector governance.

3.b. Description of the Operation

The Bank has supported year two of the reform program through a US$100 million Second Punjab
Education Sector Development Policy Credit (PEDPC II). The objective of PEDPC II, the second in a
series of three single tranche annual credits, was to provide financing for the PESRP to assist Punjab to
move towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) of Universal Primary Education
(UPE) and Gender Parity in Primary Education by 2015. The DPC supported the three pillars of PESRP.
This simplified ICR assesses the performance of PESRP supported by PEDPC II, corresponding to the
period since the last ICR of March 2005 to the current date.2 A full ICR will be prepared after the
completion of the full DPC series next calendar year.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

The achievement of objectives and outputs is rated as satisfactory. PESRP continues to show steady
progress. Achievements of the first operation have been sustained, including the continued increases in
public sector enrollments and sector financing. Progress has picked up in areas that showed slower
movement under the first Credit, such as the quality agenda and public private partnerships.                          The
following provides an assessment of achievement of objective and outputs under each reform pillar.3

Pillar 1: Improving Public Sector Financing

Objective: To ensure that public expenditure is appropriately allocated to meet the Province's education
needs

The levels and composition of the education budget are now increasingly aligned to meeting the needs of
the sector.     The Government has maintained its commitments under the Medium-Term Budget
Framework (MTBF). Education allocations in the FY05 provincial budget (supported through PEDPC II)
as well as in FY06 have increased by 15% and 12.6%, respectively. Districts have allocated 15% more
non salary budget for education from their own budgets. The budget increases financed through the
provincial budget are filling infrastructure gaps; supporting targeted incentives such as stipends and free
textbooks; financing quality improvement such as teacher training and non-salary budgets for schools;
and supporting capacity building programs. While overall provincial and district sector financing has
improved, school budgeting has commenced yet is still inadequate. There have also been shortfalls in



1Simplified ICR, Education Sector Adjustment Credit for The Government of Punjab Province (Report No. 31750)
2The Punjab Government has reviewed and provided comments on this simplified ICR, which have been incorporated. The
Punjab Government agrees with the content of the ICR.
3The tables in attached Annexes 1 and 2 capture the details of progress and initial impact made in the Program supported by
  PEDPC II and to date of writing this ICR.


                                                            2

utilization of development budget during FY054. Increases in non salary budgets, transfer to School
Councils, and utilizations levels now have been made a part of the performance indicator under the Terms
of Partnership (TOP) agreements between the provincial and district governments.

Pillar 2: Supporting Devolution and Public Sector Management Reform

Objective: To facilitate transfer of resources to district governments to improve timely service delivery

Fiscal decentralization is on track and timely transfer of funds for education to districts under a one line
budget is taking place. Annual conditional grants for education are being provided by the provincial
government through the TOP agreements between the provincial and district governments on the basis of
needs-cum-performance formula5, shifting from equal share under PESAC, to 70%-30% needs-
performance weightage in FY05, moving to 60%-40%, respectively, in FY06. Rs. 5 billion have been
provided over and beyond the one line transfer under the TOP mechanism.6

While the transfer of resources is timely and sufficient, there are issues that continue to constrain district
level performance. First, capacity constraints lead to under-spending and delays in implementation.
Further, there are limited capacities for undertaking civil works which also affect quality of school
construction. District level monitoring of the use of development funds needs to be strengthened to
ensure improvements in service delivery. Further, after the election of new district governments in 2005,
the district budget approvals have been behind schedule this fiscal year. This has led to delays in
implementation of district financed programs.

Objective: To Increase Transparency of Financial Management Processes and Procurement Procedures

The operation is influencing financial management at the level of the education department and at the
broader provincial institutional level. At the departmental level, timely and more reliable financial data
are being made available. Proper accounting procedures to track and monitor sector expenditures have
been developed by the Program Monitoring & Implementation Unit (PMIU), making the education sector
the first sector where complete provincial and district expenditure tracking and monitoring is taking place.
The Department's large backlog of pending audit paragraphs are being progressively reduced, as regular
fortnightly Departmental Account Committee (DAC) meetings are being held. These meetings review
and settle all arising audit observations (paras) in the Provincial Account 1, as well as progressively
clearing backlogs for at least FY2002-03.7                  At the broader level, a Provincial Public Financial
Management and Accountability Assessment (PFMA) has been conducted. This has the resultant effect
of introducing a form of `self-assessment' system of tracking and monitoring of the performance
measurement indicators of the Province against specified indicator benchmarks - the first of such self-
assessment will be available by end of FY05/06.

Although these actions demonstrate the heightened focus on improving financial management in the
education sector, the capacity for financial management needs to be continuously strengthened at the
district level, through the pending recruitment and training of additional accounting and auditing staff,

4See footnote 4 for explanation.
5 The need-based factor includes enrollment and literacy levels, while the performance-based factor includes district's own
  budget increase, realignment in the budget towards actual release for school councils and non-salary items, improvements in
  education indicators (enrollment, retention).
6There have been delays in utilization of these development funds, as the implementation cycle follows a calendar year rather
  than the fiscal year because, although the Program commenced in July 2003, implementation began from January 2004 as
  systems were being devised in the first six months (e.g., TOPs, stipends, textbook distribution). The program has continued to
  follow a CY cycle.
7In January 2003, overall un-reviewed audit observations of the Education Department were 46,062. By December 2005, the
  number had reduced to 34,707. Between September and November 2005, a total of 211 audit review meetings were held out
  of which 70 were for the Education Department. For further details, see Program Document PEDPC III, Report 35411-PK.


                                                              3

and continued training of existing staff. Once the district capacity issues are systematically addressed,
there would be greater and visible reduction in the large number of arising audit observations.

Satisfactory progress has been made in the area of procurement. Reforms achieved include: contracts for
civil works above a reasonable threshold are now based on open competition and transparent procedures;
the requirements for pre-registration of contractors and of composite schedule of rates (CSR) have been
removed and replaced with realistic cost estimates based on prevailing market rates; School Councils
(SCs) are now authorized to carry out small civil works at the school level up to a threshold of Rs.
400,000; and annual independent third party ex-post procurement reviews of a sample of procurements
are being conducted.

While such actions have laid the foundation for increased transparency and efficiency, there are areas that
require further strengthening to institutionalize procurement reforms. For example, although SCs are
authorized to carry out small civil works, this is only taking place in a few districts and is not yet a
systematic practice. Findings of the ex-post procurement review based on audits carried out in four
districts reveal a large number of deviations from established Punjab Government procedures. While the
review does not establish the relative materiality of these observations to the total number value of
samples reviewed, they are symptomatic of deficiencies in two areas of procurement policy reform, i.e.
procurement procedures (including insufficient time given to bids, absence of administrative approval of
scope changes, no preparation of site drawings for administrative approval, over-payment, and post bid
negotiations) and capacity constraints of staff. The Government has begun preparation of rules for
procurement of goods, works and services that meet international best practice, and has prepared a
provincial procurement strategy in line with these.

Pillar 3: Improving Quality, Access and Governance in the Education Sector

This pillar aims to address two core areas: a) sector governance, and b) quality and access.

Objective: To strengthen education sector management

This new objective was included under PEDPC II to re-orient the education department's operational
structure at the provincial and district levels to align it with its evolving responsibilities and functions
under a devolved framework. Initially progress in this area was slower than anticipated, but restructuring
of the provincial and district education departments has now begun. At the provincial level, the
Education Department has created a unified Planning Wing by merging the two wings for college and
school education to focus on planning and monitoring functions for the entire sector, including
mainstreaming the management and information systems developed by the PMIU within the core
functions of the Planning Wing. Capacity support programs are under implementation. At the district
level, a plan for restructuring of the district education management system has been approved. This
includes restructuring district management staff along functional lines that include human resource,
monitoring, finance and planning, and academics (covering examination, assessment and teacher
training). A parallel and phased action plan has been approved for capacity building of staff. This
includes skill development through existing public training institutes, and infrastructure and equipment
support for computers and mobility support for field monitoring. These programs are fully financed by
Government. While these actions represent a serious effort to improve sector management, intensive
capacity support backed by strong monitoring is required at both district and provincial levels.

Objective: To improve teacher management

Teacher performance and quality is affected by a number of factors.             These include educational
qualification of teachers; merit in recruitment; systems to monitor teacher performance, including
absenteeism; and a system for incentive rewards, upgrading skills and career structure. So far, progress


                                                      4

has been made by revising the teacher recruitment policy including the policy of hiring all new teachers
on school-specific contract and enhancing the requirement for educational qualification. From September
2005 all teacher recruitment is being undertaken using MIS data and related need analysis to determine
school-by-school needs based on student-teacher ratios8.            The teacher recruitment policy has been
reviewed and amendments incorporated including hiring of only female teachers for primary schools and
increasing the points for local level teachers to improve teacher attendance. While a comprehensive
system for monitoring absenteeism is yet to be developed, monitoring through District Monitoring
Officers reported 3,000 absenteeism cases and action has been taken on 1,600. A teacher management
study9 carried out in 2005 also assessed the effectiveness of the contract teacher recruitment policy. This
study found 25% of regular teachers absent as opposed to 17% of contract teachers absent on the day of
the survey.      The Chief Minister's monitoring teams are also capturing information on teacher
absenteeism10 which is being provided to district governments for necessary action. Although these are
useful sources of information, they are not part of an institutionalized system to monitor teacher
absenteeism and performance. There have been delays in developing a focus program to improve teacher
management by the district education set up. This is a core priority area under the next and future credits.
A systematic mechanism based on the district education system in line with the functional reorganization
will be developed in future operations, and an indicator for reduction of teacher absenteeism will be
included in future TOPs. Further measures to improve quality of teachers are described in the subsequent
section on quality and teacher professional development.

Objective: To Revitalize School Councils

Schools Councils (SC) strengthening is underway through the following interventions. The program for
supporting 2,400 SCs in six pilot districts in partnership with two NGOs using two different models
(contracting out management to the NGO and a capacity building approach) is now under
implementation. The Education Department's analysis shows that SCs are functioning in 53,741 schools
(or 84% of total schools) out of which more than 95% have active bank accounts with an average balance
of about Rs. 11,000 per SC. However, on average only 36% of available funds were spent during the past
year by primary school SCs, and an even lower 7% at the high and higher secondary levels. These
findings point towards two deficiencies: capacity constraints of SCs; and lack of sufficient community
mobilization to enable SCs to better understand their roles and functions. Recognizing these gaps, the
government is now extending SC capacity building in a phased manner to all other (non-pilot) districts in
partnership with NGOs, for which it has provided funding. School-based recurrent budgets have been
provided to SCs in 19 districts. A performance indicator regarding release and utilization of school based
budgets has been included in the TOPs. A review of quality of civil works undertaken by SCs in districts
where they have been provided funds for school civil works has also been launched. The findings are
expected to help other district governments to better understand the capacity of SCs to implement civil
works. However, additional funding for SCs will not be effective without a capacity building program
that enables SCs to become active in school affairs. Such a capacity building program needs to
emphasize community mobilization for creation of greater information and awareness among parents and
communities for managing and monitoring school performance.

Objective: To Strengthen Program Monitoring and Evaluation

A strong monitoring system has been established which is now recognized by other departments in
Punjab, other provincial governments and by the federal Ministry of Education. PMIU's work has

8 This is the first time that data has been used systematically to determine teacher requirements on a school-by-
  school basis.
9 Teacher Management in Punjab, Issues and Policies Consultants, February 2005 (financed by World Bank and
  Department for International Development).
10The Chief Minister's monitoring teams visited over 25,000 schools during 2005, and found low teacher
  absenteeism.


                                                        5

generated interest in other provinces, and the Punjab team has started to provide technical assistance to
education reforms in Sindh and to the irrigation sector in Punjab. Similar requests have been made by the
NWFP health and education departments. MIS data is being used for the purposes of analysis and reform
program planning and policy decisions (e.g., data-based needs analysis for teacher recruitment). This
ongoing monitoring is supported by a regular third party validation (TPV) system to verify delivery of
program inputs. TPVs conducted in 2005 for the delivery of stipends and textbooks showed more than
90% and 99% delivery, respectively.

While there has been good progress in the area of monitoring, capacity of the Government to undertake
evaluation is weak. Such capacity is also limited in national research organizations and among private
consultants. The Government is working with the Bank and other donors to strengthen this capacity.
Further, while the revamped monitoring system is in place and datasets developed by the PMIU placed
with the districts, the capacity of district officials to analyze and use this information needs to be
strengthened. Additionally, EMIS has to be strengthened to enable monitoring of outcomes, and needs to
include full sector data of both public and private11, and requires technical improvements to enable
computation of drop out, retention and completion rates.                       Wider dissemination of the information
generated through its M&E system, including through Punjab Government's official website, is required.
This is expected be available by mid-CY06.

Improve Quality and Access

Objective: To Improve Equitable Access to Education

This objective continues to show good performance, with steady increases in public sector enrollments
and progress in moving towards gender parity. Total enrollments (Pre-Primary ­ Grade 10) have
increased at a respectable rate of 7% between October 2004 and October 2005 (or 20% since the start of
the reform program). Enrollment increases have been registered for both boys and girls, although at a
higher rate for girls as a result of which Punjab is seeing a narrowing of the gender gap. In October 2003,
girls made up 43.1% of total public school enrollment (Grades 1 ­ 12), moving to 44.5% in 2004, and
45% in May 2005, closer to the Government's target of 49%. Primary girls' enrollment in government
schools has moved from 44% to 46% of total primary enrollment between October 2003 and May 2005,
and at the middle level, girls now account for 41% of total enrollment, up from 36% in October 2003.
Household survey data also show improvements in net enrollment rates (NER), echoing the trends public
sector enrollments as reported by EMIS. The primary NER in Punjab has increased from 45% in 2001/02
to 58% in 2004/0512. These trends are encouraging, but Punjab has a long way to go if it wants to attain
UPE, achievement of which will require deepening and sustaining the reforms.

The stipend program targeting government Grade 6 ­ 8 girls in fifteen low literacy districts has continued
to show enrolment increases and improved attendance. The number of girls receiving the stipend has
increased from 214,000 in October 2004 to 252,000 in October 2005 (almost 18% increase), with
attendance now at over 99% (up from 90% last year). As a result of this initial impact, the stipend
program has been extended to girls in Grades 9 and 10 in the same districts from the last quarter of CY06.
Increases in both girls' and boys' enrollment are evident at the primary and middle levels in both stipend
and non-stipend districts, although more for girls. Free textbooks have been extended to cover all


11A National Education Census is currently being carried out by the Federal Bureau of Statistics, and will provide information on
  all public and private educational institutes in Pakistan. Once finalized, Punjab EMIS will use the data to update private sector
  information and to make it part of the routine EMIS census exercises.
122001-2002 data based on Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS); 2004-2005 data based on Pakistan Social and Living
  Standards Measurement (PSLSM) Survey 2004-05 (CWIQ Approach), Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistics Division,
  Government of Pakistan. The PSLSM Survey 2004-05 data is based on preliminary reports as raw data has not yet been made
  available. The Punjab Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) 2004 while showing an improvement in the trend over
  2001/02, shows a lower NER (Overall 51, male 53, female 49).


                                                                6

government Grade Katchi ­ Grade 8 students under which more than 20 million books were provided to
9.7 million students in April 2005. Out of the 32,389 approved missing facility schemes, about 12,000
were approved in 2005, and more than 60% of these have been completed. Recruitment of 16,000
contract teachers has been initiated13. As a result of these interventions, there has been a 60% reduction
in the number of missing facilities, and a 66% reduction in the number of closed schools since the launch
of the program.

Analysis of Punjab school census data from 2003-2005 shows that while there is an increase in the
absolute number of children in each grade, 24% of Katchi class students do not progress to Grade 1, while
16% do not progress from Grade 4 to 5.14 Primary school completion rates have shown an increase from
58% to 61% between 2003 and 2005, yet students continue to drop out. It is likely that many students
who come into the system are confronted by overwhelming conditions of over-enrolled schools (absence
of teachers due to unfilled post or chronic absenteeism, missing infrastructure such as inadequate
classroom space, and poor learning environment). Although these gaps are being addressed, there is a
time lag between the rapidly growing enrollments and availability of program inputs at the school level.

Objective: To Ensure Provision of Quality Education through Improved Teaching and Materials

During initial years, the Program focused on targeted measures to expand access. Although quality
improvement was a core objective, progress has been slow as it required several institutional changes.15
Teacher professional development necessitated restructuring of the institutional framework for teacher
training in the province. Similarly, textbook improvement required gradual changes such as first opening
up of textbook printing of two grades to private competition, before moving towards complete opening of
printing and publishing for all textbooks. Systems to monitor student learning were being developed in
conjunction with national efforts. These institutional changes led to slower implementation on the quality
agenda, but laid the foundations for meaningful reforms to improve quality.

Several steps are being taken to improve the quality of teaching and learning. Recruitment of teachers
with higher qualifications is continuing to fill the vacancy gap. The Directorate of Staff Development
(DSD) has initiated the teacher professional development program with approval of a framework for
Continuous Professional Development of teachers, linked to future plans of ongoing support and
mentoring. Training of Lead Trainers in partnership with private sector providers is also being initiated.
Programs for classroom based support, especially for least qualified primary school teachers are being
finalized. DSD is developing a teacher data management information system to assist in planning and
managing teacher professional development. Despite these efforts, the program for teacher professional
development has so far focused only on teacher training. Teacher performance requires the development
of a comprehensive professional development system that includes training, provision of incentives, and
reforms in career structure.

The process of textbook improvement is also underway with opening up of textbook printing and
publishing to private competition. Building upon the positive experience with the Katchi grade Primer
under the first Credit, printing and publication of Grade 6 books for all subjects has now been undertaken
through a competitive open process. The total number of textbooks that has been printed and published
through this has risen from 2.37 million in 2004 to 5.2 million in 2005. An action plan has been
developed for phasing textbook reform, including restructuring of the Textbook Board to realign its
functions. To reform an established institution with multiple interest groups is a challenging task, and
will require continued high level commitment to develop alignment among the various stakeholders.

13About 50,000 contract teachers have been recruited to date, including these 16,000 currently being recruited.
14As there were no pass/fail grades given during this census period and a low rate of repeaters (about 2.6%), one can by proxy
  assume that these students dropped out of the system.
15See Simplified ICR, Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Report No. 31750) and Program Document for PEDPC II (Report
  No. 31519-PK) for more description of the institutional changes in quality undertaken under the first operation


                                                               7

A most significant development has been the establishment of baseline for monitoring the quality of
learning through assessments and examination through the National Education Assessment System
(NEAS). The first pilot assessment of Grade IV students in language and mathematics provides the
baseline of student learning outcomes at the provincial and national levels. It shows that although Punjab
performed slightly better than the national average, it still fell below the mean scaled score of 500 in both
subjects (430 in mathematics and 382 in language, out of a total score of 1000). A major reform for
measurement of quality of learning is the approval to establish an independent Examination Commission.
This was not foreseen at the start of the Program but has emerged as core reform as it has strong linkages
with content and quality of teaching. It will help to establish school-wise and district-wise performance
benchmarks, making it easier to identify and fill gaps in teaching and learning. It would enable
government to design appropriate teacher training and to better target interventions. Data could be used
to establish district ranking in quality and will enable provision of performance-based incentives to
schools and districts. This could be a useful way of promoting healthy competition leading to improved
performance. The data could also enable government to provide additional technical support to poor
performing or disadvantaged districts.

The quality agenda forms a core objective of the reforms, and the institutional changes that have been
made to lay the foundation for quality improvements are yet to translate into visible improvements in
student learning and in classroom practice. All aspects of quality improvement ­ teacher professional
development, textbook improvement, and measuring of student learning ­ need to be addressed in a more
holistic manner to have an impact on improved learning outcomes.

Objective: To Expand Access to Education through Innovative Public Private Partnerships

The Punjab Education Foundation (PEF) is now fully functional and staffed, with a vision and strategy in
place. It has initiated several innovative programs to support low cost private schools. These include a
Cluster Based Teacher Training (CBT) Program through which more than 1,500 teachers from low cost
private schools have been trained; the Foundation Assisted Schools (FAS) program that provides tuition
support to low cost schools enabling households to send their children to school; and a pilot voucher
scheme that will initially target 5,000 low-income households in urban slums in Lahore. In order to
ensure quality, an in-house Academic Development Unit helps design, deliver and monitor training,
provide ongoing support to teachers, and conducts periodic assessments of students and teachers.

PEF programs will be evaluated to consider future scaling up. The strategy to support private sector
provision will benefit from new data and information including the National Education Census currently
being carried out by the federal government. A World Bank study on public private partnership is
currently being finalized which, using household survey data from three districts, will provide baseline
data on quality of education in the private sector.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Several factors have affected the satisfactory implementation and outcomes in the Program supported by
PEDPC II. First, the continued high level political support and commitment has kept the Program on
track. It has enabled the Government to take on challenging institutional reforms, such as establishing an
independent Examination Commission and moving forward on the restructuring of the Textbook Board.
The high level commitment has also been demonstrated through the Chief Minister's monitoring teams
that have helped to fill gaps in district monitoring.          Second, alignment in the senior provincial
management and bureaucracy has been maintained which also facilitates implementation. The team is
forward looking and continues to seek improvements in program design and aims to deepen the reforms.
Third, government has maintained its financing commitments under the MTBF. Fourth and most



                                                     8

important, strong MIS and data analysis have helped to monitor progress and to identify areas that require
further support.

There are however factors that have hindered progress in implementation and outcomes in certain areas.
Delays in reorganization of the district education system have delayed the start up of district capacity
building programs. This has in turn affected the capacity to monitor school performance, including
setting up a streamlined system to monitor teacher absenteeism. The slow progress in capacity building
of SCs has also delayed activating SCs to play a more effective role. The institutional reforms required
for improving quality have taken longer than earlier anticipated, but will be a key focus in the next phase
of reforms.

6. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The task team's consistent engagement and responsiveness is
acknowledged by Government. Continuity of the task team has been one major factor for ensuring the
consistency in policy dialogue with the senior provincial leadership and in working with the Education
Department. The Bank has maintained intensive dialogue with senior policy makers outside of the
education sector, including finance and planning, which has helped to address sector issues within the
context of the overall provincial development and financing framework. The team regularly engages with
civil society to understand different stakeholder perspectives.      At the operational level, consistent
engagement with the PESRP team has enabled effective review of progress and discussion on areas
needing acceleration. Coordination with donors has been effective and has enabled better alignment
between available technical expertise and resources and with the needs of the Program (e.g., UNICEF
technical support for assessing the examination system which led to the decision to establish PEC).
Finally, the Bank's performance has benefited from regular field visits to districts and schools leading to
better understanding of local level stakeholder issues, including those of district officials, teachers, and
parents.

Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory at all levels. At the provincial level, the good progress and
satisfactory achievement of objectives has been based on strong political championship, alignment of
vision and strategy among the key set of policy makers, and intensive monitoring and oversight by the
dedicated operational teams. The Chief Minister's keen interest and monthly reviews of implementation
progress have helped keep the Program on track. The PESRP Provincial Steering Committee continues to
monitor progress, address bottlenecks, and provide overall guidance on policy issues. The PMIU's
intensive monitoring and analysis has ensured that the Program momentum is maintained, especially in
timely implementation and delivery of inputs, and that policy decisions are based on information and
analysis. At the district level, the commitment of district governments is reflected in progress achieved in
the indicators agreed to in the TOP agreements. The planned capacity building program will enable
district education teams to further improve their performance.

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

It will be critical for this high level commitment for education reforms to continue for the satisfactory
implementation of future operations supporting Punjab's education reforms.            Several ongoing and
planned reforms require fundamental changes in institutional structures and systems, and therefore will
require continued drive from the provincial leadership. This will be particularly important for future
operations that support Phase II. Elections planned for late 2007 may pose a risk for the continuity of the
reform program, especially if priorities shift.     However, institutionalizing of reforms, such as the
integration of systems developed by PMIU into mainstream department functions, and giving autonomy
and clearer mandates to institutions (e.g., for examinations, supporting the private sector, and textbook




                                                     9

development), could contribute to continuity and long term sustainability of the reform program and the
success of subsequent operations.

To support this continuity and for implementation of future operations, stronger district capacity is needed
to ensure effective implementation and ownership. Restructuring of the provincial education department
to better align it to carry out its functions (policy, planning, and monitoring) could also help to counter
any major shift in political commitment. Ownership of the reform program will need to be strengthened
among different stakeholders, including all levels of government, teachers, parents, and the civil society at
large.   One avenue to achieve this is through wider dissemination of program achievements and
outcomes, which will help to build an understanding about the direction of the reforms. Another is to put
in mechanisms to assess user satisfaction on an ongoing basis, such as through citizen kiosks. It will be
equally important to conduct analytical work and evaluation, based on credible information and dynamic
monitoring (for example, the impact evaluation of the stipend program, review of PEF's programs, and
the review of teacher professional development programs, among others).            Further, the awareness
campaign and enrolment increases have generated momentum, and continued public pressure could also
help in maintaining reform continuity. Finally, one important factor in helping to ensure continuity and
ownership of the reforms will be visible improvements in quality of education. A holistic approach to
quality improvement that entails a stronger focus on the school and the classroom, and one that translates
the institutional changes into actual improvement in teaching and student learning will be essential for
building credibility of the public education system.         Many of these elements have already been
incorporated into the program that will be supported by the third credit, and also are part of the longer
term education reforms.

The sector requires long term reforms, and it is important that government maintain the focus as there is
always a risk of complacency with initial success. Both government and the Bank recognize the long
term nature of reforms. Government is maintaining continuity by moving PESRP into a second phase,
which is expected to be supported through a new DPC series after completion of this series. The focus of
future operations will include promoting a holistic reform strategy that includes making special
interventions at the earliest stages of schooling, i.e., katchi (pre-primary) class, strengthening and
deepening public private partnerships by stimulating private sector participation in schooling in rural
areas, and supporting a market-responsive college education sector. Before launching into a second
phase, a program evaluation will be undertaken, especially to better understand reasons for high drop out
rates and teacher absenteeism, and to assess how effective the reform program and its specific
interventions have been in bridging the enrollment and gender gaps. Such a program evaluation, planned
to commence in the early part of FY07, would provide information for the full ICR at the completion of
the current DPC series next year, will also strengthen future operations, and will help develop a
framework of continuing reforms that can help Pakistan move closer towards achieving the MDGs.




                                                      10

            Annex 1

                       Reform Actions Supported Under PESAC and PEDPC II and Initial Impact16

           Objectives                     Prior Actions for PESAC and PEDPC II                                    Initial Impact
                                          Reform Pillar 1: Improving Public Sector Financing
Ensure public expenditure is       · Letter of Sector Development Policy issued by the           Maintaining of targets and commitments
appropriately allocated to meet        Government of Punjab                                      under the MTBF ­ there has been a 50%
Punjab's education needs           · A medium-term provincial budget framework                   increase in the education sector budget from
                                       (MTBF) which gives priority to increasing provincial      FY2004-FY2006
                                       expenditures on education by more than 50% over a
                                       3-year period
                           Reform Pillar 2: Support Devolution and Public Sector Management Reforms
Facilitate transfer of resources   · Terms of Partnership signed between provincial and          Districts own education budgets have
to district governments in order       district governments with agreed annual performance       increased by 15% for non salary budget,
to improve service delivery            indicators, and conditional grants under PESRP fully      and 72% for development
                                       transferred to district accounts upon signature of
Increase     transparency     of       TOPs                                                      Introduction        of      performance-based
financial           management     · 50% of districts increased the level of district non        incentives: from pure need based formula
processes and provincial and           salary recurrent budget for education.                    in FY04, a gradual shift towards equal share
district capacity for monitoring                                                                 for performance and need; 30% weight to
financial flows                                                                                  performance in FY05, increased to 40%
                                                                                                 weight in FY06
Improve      transparency     in   · Developed accounting procedures to monitor and
procurement procedures and             track program expenditures                                Full budget tracking system (for both
practices                                                                                        provincial and district budgets) is in place.
                                   · Fortnightly DAC meetings to review and settle all           Progressive reduction of backlogs of un-
                                       arising audit observations (paras) in the Provincial      reviewed        audit     observations     and
                                       Account No. 1, as well as progressively clear             consolidating accountability in the sector
                                       backlogs
                                   · Procurement reforms initiated to increase                   Procurement now more transparent, with no
                                       transparency, including removal of requirements for       requirement       for    pre-registration   of
                                       pre-registration of contractors, and development of       contractors, and annual third party ex-posts
                                       streamlined standard procurement guidelines for           procurement audits being conducted
                                       goods purchases, and independent ex-post
                                       procurement reviews carried out annually
                        Reform Pillar 3: Improving Quality, Access and Governance in the Education Sector
Improve      education    sector   · Increased       financing    for    community-managed       School Councils have been reconstituted
management                             contracting and provision of greater authority to         (85% of primary schools have SCs), and
                                       School Councils to manage and implement small             provided       the    authority    to    spend
Improve teacher management             civil works                                               development funds on civil works.
                                   · Issuance of guidelines clarifying the role of School
Revitalize school councils to          Councils, including their authority to undertake          Capacity building of School Councils under
monitor school performance             small procurement of works, and responsibilities of       implementation with NGO support
                                       school councils in monitoring teacher absenteeism.
Strengthen     monitoring     &    · Announced free schooling up to matriculation level          Free      textbooks     received     by   99%
evaluation in order to gauge       · Policy of free textbooks announced for primary              government Grade K-8 students on time for
education outcomes and to              school students.                                          school year (10.6 million students received
improve       and      re-adjust   · Introduction of a stipend program for all girls in          free textbooks)
education policies                     grades 6-8, targeted initially to 15 disadvantaged        Eligible girl students regularly receive
                                       districts with low literacy levels
Improve equitable access to                                                                      quarterly stipends (90% on time delivery)
                                   · Missing facilities provided to schools based needs
education                              identified by district education profiles.                Almost 20% overall increase in public
                                   · Textbook printing and publishing opened to
Ensure provision of quality                                                                      school enrolments, with reduction in gender
                                       competition, beginning with the Primer, and phased
education through improved                                                                       gaps
                                       action for restructuring of Textbook Board
teaching and materials             · Restructured institutional framework for teacher            Stipends have led to 40% increase in girls'


         16 As PEDPC II is part of a series of credits providing programmatic support, it is difficult to isolate and assess actions in one
         year from another. Therefore, the initial impact is presented for the Program supported to date under the two credits.


                                                                         11

                               professional development                                  enrollment in target districts (and more than
Expand access to education   · Reorganized Education Department's Directorate of         90% increase in attendance), and have
through     innovative public  Staff  Development       for  delivery     of    teacher  shown increased enrollments for boys
private partnerships           professional development programs.                        compared to non-stipend districts.
                             · Credible monitoring & evaluation system established
                             · Legal restructuring of PEF                                Reduction in missing facilities gap: work
                             · Independent third party surveys commissioned to           on 60% of identified missing facilities
                               assess availability of stipends and free textbooks at     commissioned, with work completed on
                               the school level.                                         more than half.
                             · School Councils re-established and roles clarified
                             · Established school-based budgets                          Teacher recruitment now being conducted
                                                                                         on a basis of needs analysis
                             · Established transparent criteria for districts to recruit
                               new contract school-specific teachers, favoring           Over 66% of closed schools have opened
                               recruitment of women and local candidates                 through appointment of teachers

                                                                                         For the first time, teacher development
                                                                                         programs being delivered in partnership
                                                                                         with private sector

                                                                                         5.2 million books printed through a
                                                                                         competitive process.

                                                                                         The M&E system is producing data and
                                                                                         information for policy and analysis; it has
                                                                                         received national recognition and is being
                                                                                         replicated in other provinces.

                                                                                         Public private partnerships are developing.
                                                                                         These will be assessed in Phase II

                                                                                         Implementation of merit based recruitment
                                                                                         policy has led to better qualified teachers
                                                                                         with increased % holding graduate degrees




                                                                 12

Annex 2

                                                 Baseline17 and Targets of PESRP


Outcome Indicator                                                               Baseline 2003            Actual 2005 (Target in
                                                                                                               Parenthesis)

Net Primary Enrollment Rates by Gender (excluding katchi)                    Overall: 45                Overall: 58 (48)

                                                                             Girls: 43                  Girls: 55 (46)

Net Middle Enrollment Rate by Gender                                         Boys: 47                   Boys: 60 (50)

(Source: PSLSMS)

                                                                             Overall: 18                Overall: 20 (22)

                                                                             Girls: 18                  Girls: 19 (24)

                                                                             Boys: 18                   Boys: 21 (20)
      Annual Program Indicators under Terms of Partnership (ToP) Agreements Baseline and Achievements

               Indicator                      Baseline Data District         October 2005 School                   Change
                                                      Profiles                      Census
Primary Completion rate in                              58%                          61%                             3%
Government schools18

Enrolment Grade Katchi to V (Male)                   3,487,400                     4,151,992                         19%

Enrolment Grade Katchi to V                          2,897,006                     3,595,466                         24%
(Female)

Enrolment Grade VI to VIII (Male)                    1,025,997                     1,162,641                         13%

Enrolment Grade VI to VIII (Female)                   692,176                       840,765                          21%

No. of school councils                             New initiative                    85%
operationalized as per circulated
guidelines

No. of closed schools                                   2031                          680                      66% reduction

District Government's total allocation                 20,455                       24,533                           20%
for elementary education

Total districts' non-salary budget                      661                          1,267                          100%

Reduction in missing facilities               Data as per District           60% overall reduction
                                              Profile on type of
                                              missing facility




17Baseline data for 2003 are from a special Punjab EMIS survey carried out in Spring 2003 to develop district baselines, and covers Government
  schools.
18In the absence of student IDs in school census and cohort analysis, the primary completion rate has been estimated by using 6 years time series
  government school census data; i.e. by comparing the number of students in Grade 1 vs students in Grade 5 between five census cycles.


                                                                       13

