Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3855 PAK 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Punjab Education Sector Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 20, 2004 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3855 PAK 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 20, 2004, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
May 6, 2003, transmitting to the Association a letter from the Province of Punjab 
(Punjab) dated April 22, 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to enhance access and quality of education in Punjab (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring Punjab’s commitment to the execution of the Program and the 
Borrower’s support thereto, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of 
the Program during the execution thereof; 
 
(B) 
Punjab has requested the Association and the Borrower support its 
execution of the Program through a series of Credits over a period of three years, the 
proceeds of such Credits to be utilized by Punjab for implementing the Program; 
 
(C) 
Punjab has to the satisfaction of the Association and the Borrower 
carried out the measures, and taken the actions, constituting the first phase of the 
Program, as described in the Schedule to the Project Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Association and Punjab (the Project Agreement) and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association and the Borrower; 
 
(D) 
the Program will be carried out by Punjab with the assistance of the 
Borrower, and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the local currencies 
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement 
available to Punjab, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
(E) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
in one tranche as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
‘“Project” means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit 
is made.’; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of these 
General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to 
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
“Consolidated Account” means the consolidated account (Consolidated 
Account No. 1 Non-Food) of the Government of Punjab referred to in Section 3.01 of the 
Project Agreement through which the local currency equivalent of the proceeds of the 
Credit will be disbursed; 
 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“District Government” means a District Government as defined in the 
Punjab Local Government Ordinance (PLGO) 2001; 
 
(d) 
“Nazim” means Zila Nazim as defined in PLGO 2001; 
 
(e) 
“Education Department” means Punjab’s provincial Education 
Department; 
 
(f) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
Punjab of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Punjab Education Management Information System” means a system 
established and maintained by the Education Department for collecting, maintaining, and 
analyzing education data; 
 
(h) 
“Program Monitoring and Implementation Unit” means the unit 
established in the Education Department for overall coordination, monitoring, and 
facilitation of the reform program; 
 
(i) 
“Punjab Education Foundation” means a foundation established under 
the Punjab Education Foundation Act, 1991, or successors thereto; 
 
(j) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and of Punjab 
beginning on July 1 of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the next following 
calendar year; 
 
(k) 
“Rupees” or “Rs” means the currency of the Borrower;  
 
(l) 
“Punjab” means the Province of Punjab of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto;  
 
(m) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement; and 
 
 
(n) 
“Terms of Partnership” means the agreements executed between the 
Education Department, on the one hand, and the District Governments, on the other hand, 
Page  5
-
4
-
that include, among other things: (i) various matters relating to implementation of the 
Program by District Government; (ii) arrangements to ensure that District Governments 
maintain appropriate budgetary allocations for the education sector in Fiscal Year 2004; 
(iii) the respective roles and responsibilities of the provincial government and the District 
Governments in program monitoring and implementation; and (iv) annual targets to be 
achieved by District Governments. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-nine million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 69,500,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall, promptly after the deposit of the proceeds of the 
Credit into the Deposit Account, transfer to Punjab an amount in Rupees equivalent to the 
amount deposited in the Deposit Account as of the day of such deposit. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for any expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: 
 
(i) 
deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount 
of said payment; or 
 
(ii) 
if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07.(a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing March 15, 2014, and ending September 15, 
2038. Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2023, 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association of 
Page  7
-
6
-
the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.09. In order to assist Punjab in carrying out the Program, the Borrower 
shall onlend the proceeds of the Credit to Punjab in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Punjab which shall be in 
accordance with the Borrower’s onlending policies.  
 
Section 2.10. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association, and facilitate the exchange of 
views between the Association and Punjab, on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(a) 
the event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall have 
occurred; and  
 
(b) 
any action shall have been taken or any omission shall have been made 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program, including any action specified in the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Punjab and is legally binding upon Punjab in accordance with 
its terms. 
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section 
Officer of that Division of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
Economic Affairs Division 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMIC 
 ECDIV-05-634 
 92-51-9205971 
 
Islamabad 
    92-51-9210734 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Waqar Masood Khan 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Abid Hasan 
 
 
Acting Country Director, Pakistan 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Excluded Expenditures
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, or any successor 
groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association 
by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112  
- 
 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121  
 
 
- 
 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122  
- 
 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525  
- 
 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667  
- 
 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  12
-
11
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
 
718.7 
  
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728  
728.43 
 
  Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
 
897.3 
  
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971  
- 
 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
-
