Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB202 
Project Name 
Punjab Education Reform Adjustment Credit 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General education sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P083228 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Department of Education 
Government of Punjab 
Civil Secretariat 
Tel: 92-42-9210039 
Fax: 92-42-9210040 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD  
Safeguard Classification 
[] S
1
   [ ] S
2
           [X] S
3
            [ ] S
F
   [ ] “C”
 
Date PID Prepared 
August 6, 2003 – Updated November 3, 2003 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 23, 2003 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March, 2004 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Punjab has slightly better human development indicators than Pakistan as a whole; however these 
indicators fare poorly when compared to those in other parts of South Asia.  A very large proportion 
of the adult population (40 percent) is illiterate and less than two thirds (60 percent) of the province’s 
school-age population is enrolled in public primary schools.  The Net Enrolment Rate (NER) 
stagnated in the 1990s even declining slightly until 1998, before improving slightly to 45 percent 
(compared to 42 percent national) in 2001-02.  Of those enrolled in the first year of primary school, 
only half complete four or more years of education.  The drop-out rate from the public school system 
(43 percent) is also very high.  The internal efficiency of the education system remains weak: 
retention rates are low and there are a high proportion of repeaters in primary and elementary classes.  
There are also substantial regional disparities in access to education.  The low levels of education of 
the population are major contributors to poverty in the Punjab and pose significant constraints to the 
realization of sustained economic growth.  Like the nation as a whole, the main issues affecting 
education sector service delivery in the Punjab are insufficient resources allocated to education, 
systemic weakness in public sector delivery, including over-centralization and inadequate 
management and the poor performance of the education system (in terms of quality, access and 
governance).     
 
This sector adjustment credit comes in the backdrop of decentralization which is designed to bring 
representative executive authority to a level closer to beneficiaries. 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The purpose of this sector adjustment operation is to provide core budget support for the attainment 
of the MDG targets in basic education.  The project would be the first part of a long-term program to 
support sector wide development through a series of single tranche adjustment programs that would 
be linked to achieving specific qualitative and quantitative targets in the education sector.  By starting 
with Pakistan’s largest province with a population of over 56%, the project targets a major part of the 
challenge to meeting MDG goals in the country.   
3. Preliminary description: 
Page  2
 
 
 
The Punjab education service delivery reform which this credit seeks to support has three main 
pillars
: (A) 
public finance reforms 
that realign (increase) public spending towards education (and 
other pro-poor services) and ensure fiscal sustainability; (B) 
reforms that
 
strengthen devolution 
and improve fiduciary environment and governance
; and (C) 
education sector reforms
 that 
improve quality, access, sector governance, and public private partnerships.
 
 The objective of the 
reform program is to increase Pakistan’s human capital in order to reduce poverty and spur sustained 
economic growth; and, in doing so, to attain Millennium Development Goals (MDG) targets related 
to universal elementary education and gender parity.  
 
Education sector reforms.  
To improve education sector performance the government will:
 
a) 
strengthen education governance
 
through: (1) the establishment of transparent criteria for teacher 
recruitment and deployment, as well as a major re-orientation in the teaching cadre (with an 
increasing proportion of teachers --at least 20% having facility-based contracts); (2) effective use of 
School Councils (SCs) to strengthen stakeholder participation in education; and (3) improvements in 
monitoring and evaluation of the education sector; 
b) increase the quality of education services
 
through: (1) the provision of higher quality and more relevant teacher training; (2) the provision of 
higher quality textbooks and learning materials; and (3) the institution of learning assessments; and 
c)
 
improve equity and access
 
through: (1) the provision of free textbooks for primary school students; 
(2) the provision of free tuition up to matriculation (grade 10); (3) the provision of stipends to girl 
students; (4) the expansion of access through partnerships with the private sector; and (5) increased 
financing for school improvements and provision of missing facilities. The Punjab Government will 
work in partnership with districts, NGOs and SCs to implement this reform program. 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
Safeguard 
Classification S
3
 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: 
($m) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 620 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
100 
 Total 
720 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: (a) Tahseen Sayed, Title: Sr. Education Spec., Tel: 5722+166, Fax: 92-51-2822396; Email: 
TSayed@worldbank.org
, Location: Islamabad, Pakistan (IBRD); (b) Qaiser M. Khan, Title: Lead Social 
Protection Specialist, Tel: 202-473-2523; Fax: 202-522-3408; Email: 
qkhan@worldbank.org
 
 
