Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3980 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Henan (Qinbei) Thermal Power Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 23, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 3980 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 23, 1997, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Electric Power of Henan (EPH as herein 
defined) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to EPH the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
(C)
the Borrower has entered into loan agreements for the purpose of 
borrowing from external sources (collectively, the "Cofinanciers") funds in an amount 
equivalent to fifty five million dollars ($55,000,000) to assist in financing part of 
the Project on terms and conditions set forth in the agreements (the "Cofinancing 
Agreements") between the Cofinanciers and the Borrower; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and EPH;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Environmental Management Program" means the environmental management 
program  forming part of the Environmental Assessment Report dated April 1995 and 
approved by the Borrower.
(b)
"Energy Conservation Investment" means an investment made or proposed to  
be made by EPH out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to EPH by the Borrower 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to an Energy Conservation Entity for an Energy 
Conservation Sub-project.
(c)
"Energy Conservation Entity" means any entity to which EPH proposes to 
make an Energy Conservation Investment. 
(d)
"Energy Conservation Sub-Project" means a specific energy conservation 
project under Part C of the Project to be carried out by an Energy Conservation Entity 
utilizing the proceeds of an Energy
Conservation Investment.
(e)
"EPH" means Electric Power of Henan, a state-owned enterprise organized 
and existing under the laws of the Borrower pursuant to its Charter approved under 
Approval No. 270. 1993 issued by the Central China Electric Power Administration.
(f)
"LARP-I" means the Land Acquisition and Relocation Plan, dated December 
1995, approved by the Borrower for carrying out the compensation, resettlement or 
rehabilitation of all persons who are
involuntarily resettled or whose rights to land and other assets are compulsorily 
acquired under Parts A and B of the Project, and the term "LARP-II" means the detailed 
land acquisition and relocation plan prepared by EPH pursuant to Part B.2(b)(ii) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(g)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and EPH of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the Project Agreement.
(h)
"Reform Implementation Plan" means the plan for the reform of EPH as 
prepared by EPH and approved by Ministry of Electric Power of the Borrower on April 
17, 1995.
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(j)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and EPH pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan 
provided thereunder.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
hundred and forty million dollars ($440,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
Page  3
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a  bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment 
Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions 
thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause EPH to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of EPH therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable EPH to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to EPH under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and EPH, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been agreed by the Bank which shall include, without 
limitation, terms whereby:
(i)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be made for a period not exceeding 
twenty (20) years, 
inclusive of a grace period not exceeding five 
(5) years;
(ii)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be charged: (a) interest, on the 
principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
at a rate equal to the rate applicable 
to the Loan pursuant to Section 
2.05 of the Loan Agreement; and (b) a commitment 
charge on the 
principal amount thereof not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum; and
(iii)
EPH, shall bear the foreign exchange risk in respect of the 
Subsidiary Loan.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01(a) of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(i)
all proposed land acquisitions under the Project are reviewed by 
the relevant 
provincial, prefectural or county land administration 
bureau in accordance with 
existing national regulations of the 
Borrower; and
(ii)
all persons who are involuntarily resettled, or whose rights to 
land and other 
assets are compulsorily acquired, under the 
Project receive adequate compensation 
in accordance with LARP-I.
 
(b)
To this end the Borrower shall ensure that EPH:
 
(i)
notifies the Bank of any involuntary resettlement of people or any 
acquisition of 
land and other assets which shall result from 
the Project;
(ii)
prior to undertaking any such resettlement or acquisition, submits 
to the Bank for 
its approval a detailed land acquisition and 
relocation plan relative to such 
resettlement or acquisition; and
 
(iii)
implements the approved detailed land acquisition and relocation 
plan.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
Page  5
by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by EPH pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) 
months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, 
including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
EPH shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that EPH will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The charter of EPH shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of EPH to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Page  6
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EPH or for the suspension of its 
operations.
(e)
The Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1996; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not 
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds 
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan made to the 
Borrower under any of the Cofinancing 
Agreements  shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part pursuant to the terms thereof, 
or
 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
maturity thereof;
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform 
any of the obligations under such 
agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of ninety days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur, subject, with respect to said paragraph (e), to the 
proviso contained therein; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and EPH.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by EPH, 
and is legally binding upon EPH in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and EPH and is legally binding upon the Borrower and EPH in accordance 
with its terms.
Page  7
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64l45 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  8
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category                  Dollars)           to be Financed
(1)  Goods
     (a) under Part A         379,000,000         100% of foreign
         of the Project                           expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                  and 75% of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items procured
                                                  locally
     (b) under Part B          24,000,000         100% of foreign
         of the Project                           expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                  and 75% of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items procured
                                                  locally
(2)  Consultants'              12,000,000         100%
     services and
     training
(3)  Unallocated               25,000,000
                              ___________
          TOTAL               440,000,000
                              ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1)(a) and (2) on account of payments made before 
that date but after June 15, 1995; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category 1(b) until either (i) EPH 
has furnished to the Bank a LARP-II satisfactory to the Bank or (ii) the Bank has 
confirmed in writing to EPH that no
LARP-II is required.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for goods under contracts costing 
less than $5,000,000 equivalent, except for expenditures under the first three 
Page  9
contracts for goods during Project implementation that are subject to prior review by 
the Bank in accordance with the provisions of Part D.2 of Schedule I to the Project 
Agreement; (b) services provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; (c) services provided by individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (d) training; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to reduce acute power shortages and to 
foster integrated development of the power system of Henan Province in the most 
cost-effective and environmentally sound manner; (b) to support appropriate 
implementation of power sector and power enterprise reforms in Henan Province and 
accelerate the transformation of EPH into a legally and financially autonomous and 
business-oriented company; (c) to assist in transferring new power technologies and in 
applying modern power operation and maintenance methods; (d) to support improvements 
in the efficiency of electricity use in Henan Province; and (e) to provide 
rationalization of power tariffs in Henan Province.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Construction of two 600-MW coal-fired thermal power units at Wulongkou in 
Henan Province, and provision of equipment and facilities, including an on-line 
performance monitoring system to increase plant performance, reduce coal consumption 
and gradually introduce innovative maintenance techniques.
Part B:
Erection of two 165 km 500-kV transmission lines to connect the power 
plant at Wulongkou to the existing power transmission network.
Part C:
Carrying out of a program to promote energy conservation through the 
financing by EPH of specific energy conservation measures in energy consuming 
entities.
Part D:
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization, management and 
operations of EPH, consisting of: (1) taking all steps necessary to establish EPH as a 
limited liability company under the laws of  the Borrower; (2) eliminating regulatory 
functions through their transfer to appropriate governmental authorities; (3) 
commercializing its operations through the establishment of subsidiaries,
profit centers and cost centers and the introduction of suitable accounting and 
financial management systems; (4) reforming EPH's tariff structure; and (5) 
implementing a plan in support of appropriate power sector restructuring including the 
introduction of competition in the generation of power and developing commercial 
contractual arrangements between the participants.
******
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)
 
November 15, 2001                             
 8,475,000
May 15, 2002                                  
 8,775,000
November 15, 2002                             
 9,085,000
May 15, 2003                                  
 9,405,000
November 15, 2003                             
 9,740,000
May 15, 2004                                 
10,080,000
November 15, 2004                            
10,440,000
May 15, 2005                                 
10,805,000
Page  10
November 15, 2005                            
11,190,000
May 15, 2006                                 
11,585,000
November 15, 2006                            
11,995,000
May 15, 2007                                 
12,420,000
November 15, 2007                            
12,855,000
May 15, 2008                                 
13,310,000
November 15, 2008                            
13,785,000
May 15, 2009                                 
14,270,000
November 15, 2009                            
14,775,000
May 15, 2010                                 
15,295,000
November 15, 2010                            
15,835,000
May 15, 2011                                 
16,395,000
November 15, 2011                            
16,975,000
May 15, 2012                                 
17,575,000
November 15, 2012                            
18,200,000
May 15, 2013                                 
18,840,000
November 15, 2013                            
19,510,000
May 15, 2014                                 
20,195,000
November 15, 2014                            
20,910,000
May 15, 2015                                 
21,650,000
November 15, 2015                            
22,415,000
May 15, 2016                                 
23,215,000
 
SCHEDULE  4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to fifteen 
million dollars ($15,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000) until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of one hundred and thirty 
million dollars ($130,000,000).
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests to deposit into the Special Account an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
Page  11
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  12
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
