Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3980 CHA
Project Agreement
(Henan (Qinbei) Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ELECTRIC POWER OF HENAN
Dated January 23, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 3980 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 23, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ELECTRIC POWER OF HENAN (EPH).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to four hundred and forty million dollars 
($440,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that EPH agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and EPH, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to EPH on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS EPH, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
Page  2
so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a)  EPH declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and power utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and EPH shall otherwise agree, EPH shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the  Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a)  EPH shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto or upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, EPH shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this 
purpose between the Bank and EPH, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
EPH on said plan.
Section 2.04. EPH shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EPH shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) EPH shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
EPH shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by EPH of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPH
Section 3.01. EPH shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and power 
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EPH shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
Page  3
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, environmental and power utility practices.
Section 3.03. EPH shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EPH shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
EPH shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) 
months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year 
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
EPH shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and comment, not later than three (3) 
months after the end of each fiscal
year referred to in said paragraph, a copy of the proposed audit plan for the 
undertaking of the auditing of its financial statements for such fiscal year.
Section 4.02. (a) EPH shall take all necessary measures, including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or the levels of its tariffs, to ensure that 
its internal cash generation
of each fiscal year during the term of any debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 
times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all its debt including 
the debt to be incurred.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EPH shall from time to time 
take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the levels and structure of its electricity tariffs) as shall be 
required to produce:
(i)
for its fiscal year 1996, net cash surplus equivalent to not less 
than 25 percent 
of its average annual investment program;
 
(ii)
for each of its fiscal years 1997, 1998 and 1999, net cash surplus 
equivalent to 
not less than 30 percent of said investment 
program; and
(iii)
for each fiscal year thereafter, net cash surplus equivalent to 
not less than 35 
percent of said investment program.
 
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of EPH maturing by its 
terms more than one 
year after the date on which it is 
Page  4
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement, providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "internal cash generation" means the difference between: 
(A) the sum of 
revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operating income, 
excluding receipts 
for consumer connection charges; and (B) the sum of all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, provision of maintenance special 
fund, and sales and income taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
but excluding 
provision for depreciation, and interest and 
other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: 
(A) revenues from 
all sources other than those related to operations; 
and (B) expenses, including 
taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) 
above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on 
debt, excluding capitalized 
interest during construction.
(vi)
The term "net cash surplus" means total operating income minus the 
sum of (A) cash 
operating expenses; and (B) financial obligations.
 
(vii)
The term "total operating income" means the sum of revenues from 
all sources 
related to operations and net non-operating income.
 
(viii) The term "cash operating expenses" means the sum of expenses 
related to operations, 
including maintenance and administration but 
excluding depreciation.
(ix)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt 
(excluding interest during construction); 
repayment of loans (including sinking 
fund payments, if any); 
all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes; allocations to 
special funds and other cash distributions of surplus funds (including mandatory 
transfers to the Borrower); and any other cash outflows (other 
than capital 
expenditures) related to operations.
 
(x)
The term "average annual investment program" means, for any year, 
the three year 
average of the capital expenditures incurred 
or to be incurred in such year, the 
prior year and the 
following year.
(xi)
Whenever for the purposes of Section 4.02 it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03.  EPH shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comment, by April 30 of each year, a rolling long-term financial plan containing, 
inter alia, projected income statements, sources and uses of funds and balance sheets 
for each of the next eight years.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Page  5
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of EPH 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify EPH thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For EPH:
Electric Power of Henan
No. 11 South Songshan Road
Zhengzhou
Henan Province 450052
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
0626
716 460151 HPBFO CN
Zhengzhou
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EPH, or by EPH 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the 
President  of EPH or such other person or persons as said President shall designate in 
writing, and  said President shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
ELECTRIC POWER OF HENAN
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines)
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
With respect to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 
2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, and goods which can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
 
Goods which are readily available off-the-shelf or are standard specification 
commodities and which are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of: (i) international shopping 
procedures for up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, or (ii) 
with the prior agreement of the Bank, national shopping procedures for up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
 
Page  7
Goods which  the Bank agrees (i) should be procured as an extension of an 
existing contract, or (ii) must be purchased from the original supplier to be 
compatible with existing equipment, or (iii) are of a proprietary nature, and which 
cost $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more, and (ii) the first three contracts during Project implementation  
for goods estimated to cost
less than US$5,000,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall 
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
EPH shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
Page  8
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about April 30 and October 30 of each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank,  at such time as the Bank shall request, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and 
the Bank's views on the matter.
B.
Parts A and B of the Project: Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement
 
1.
EPH shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project in conformity with 
environmental standards and guidelines, including the environmental regulations and 
guidelines issued by the National Environmental Protection Agency of the Borrower and 
the Henan Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau, satisfactory to the Bank.  To 
that end, EPH shall implement the Environmental Management Program in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
(a)
EPH shall ensure that:
 
(i)
all proposed land acquisitions, under Parts A and B of the Project 
are reviewed  by 
the relevant provincial, prefectural or county land 
administration bureau in 
accordance with existing national 
regulations of the Borrower; and
(ii)
all persons who are involuntarily resettled, or whose rights to 
land and other 
assets are compulsorily acquired, under the 
Project receive adequate compensation 
in accordance with LARP-I.
 
(b)
To that end, EPH shall:
 
(i)
notify the Bank of any proposed involuntary resettlement of people 
or any 
acquisition of land and other assets which 
will result from Parts A and B of the 
Project;
 
(ii)
prior to undertaking any such resettlement or acquisition, submit 
to the Bank for 
its approval a detailed land acquisition and 
relocation plan relative to such 
resettlement or acquisition; and
 
(iii)
implement the approved detailed land acquisition and relocation 
plan.
C.
Part C of the Project: Energy Conservation
 
1.
Under Part C of the Project, EPH shall ensure that each Energy Conservation 
Investment shall be made in accordance with procedures and on terms and conditions 
agreed to by the Bank, which shall include those set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
C.
2.
(a)
EPH shall make Energy Conservation Investments in Energy Conservation 
Sub-projects selected by agreement between the Bank and EPH;
(b)
The financing of Energy Conservation Sub-projects carried out by Energy 
Conservation Entities which are consumers of energy produced by EPH shall be at 
commercial rates which shall be not less than the published state commercial bank 
lending rate for comparable maturities, plus a margin of 3%.
(c)
EPH shall ensure that all Energy Conservation Sub-projects will include 
adequate provisions for the measurement and verification of energy savings 
satisfactory to the Bank;
Page  9
(d)
EPH shall enter into contractual arrangements with each Energy 
Conservation Entity whereby the latter undertakes, inter alia, to:
(i)
carry out its respective Energy Conservation Sub-project with due 
diligence and 
efficiency in accordance with sound 
managerial, engineering and industry practices 
acceptable to the 
Bank, and provide promptly as needed the funds and other 
resources required for the purposes, and maintain adequate records and accounts;
(ii)
utilize the proceeds of the Energy Conservation Investment 
exclusively in the 
carrying out of its respective Energy 
Conservation Sub-project;
(iii)
take out and maintain such insurance, against such risk and in 
such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business 
practice;
(iv)
enable EPH and the Bank to inspect the goods, facilities and sites 
included in its 
respective Energy Conservation Sub-project, the 
operation thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
 
(v)
at all times maintain and operate the equipment and facilities 
included in its 
respective Energy Conservation Sub-project, 
and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with 
sound 
engineering, financial and industry practices; and
(vi)
furnish to EPH and the Bank all such information as EPH or the 
Bank may reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing.
 
3.
EPH shall:
 
(a)
exercise its rights in relation to each Energy Conservation Sub-project 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and EPH, comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project; and
(b)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for 
Energy Conservation Investment, or any provision therefor, without the prior approval 
of the Bank.
D.
Part D of the Project: Reform Implementation Plan
 
1.
EPH shall:
 
(a)
carry out the Reform Implementation Plan in accordance with the 
provisions thereof; and
(b)
commence, not later than October 31, 1996,  the carrying out of a 
time-bound action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for establishing an appropriate  
mechanism for the periodic adjustment of EPH's electricity rates, so as to enable EPH 
to: (i) meet its obligations under Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement; and (ii) 
not later than January 1, 1999,  apply for each customer category, a uniform 
electricity tariff rate to all its consumers belonging thereto.
2.
EPH shall:
 
(a)
by  February 1, 1997, engage financial management consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and under 
terms of reference agreed to by the Bank, to assist in the development and 
implementation of: (i) improved accounting and financial management information 
systems; and (ii) accounting practices consistent with international accounting 
standards;
(b)
by June 1, 1998, furnish to the Bank for review and comment a proposed 
time-bound action program for the implementation of the recommendations of said 
consultants; and
Page  10
(c)
promptly after receipt of said comments, carry out said program with due 
diligence and efficiency, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
3.
EPH shall carry out management development and training in accordance with a 
program acceptable to the Bank.
