Documentof
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rport No. 8418
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECt
(LOAN 2124-SYR)
FEBRUARY 28, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



ACRO.NMS
ACB            Agricultural Cooperative Bank
ACSAD          Arabic Center for Studies of Arid Zones and Dry Land
CP             Cooperative Program
FAO            Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FY             Fiscal Year
GD?            Gross Domestic Production
GOS            Government of Syria
ICARDA         International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAAR           Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
?cR            Project Completion Report
PCU            Project Coordination Units
PISU           Project Implementation Sub Units
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SRADP          Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
UNDP           United Nations Development Program



NOR OFFICIAL 118 ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washmgto. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ok. td o0tCAC4i
February 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Syrian Arab Republic, Southern
Regional Aericultural DeveloRment Project (Loan 2124-SYR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Syrian Arab Republic Southern Regional
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2124-SYR)", prepared by the Europe,
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document ha a restticted disdbutioo and mny be used by recipiets only In the pe,f c _ |
of their offici duties Its contents may not oterwie be dbcked without Wofld DBnk authoratiOn.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNIENT PROJECT
LOAN 2124-SYR
1982-1986
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
PRFCE..........................................  ...........                  i
BASIC DATA SHEET. .... ........    ..             .......  ..-. ... .    -- ll
EVALUATION SUMIMARY . ....... ... .   ..  .       ..... ... ..... .....   - i
I.    INTRODUCTION. .   .. ........ ..              .........   .....  ...         1
iI.   PROJECT FORMULATION  ..... .... ..........  *...* 0 ....****                 2
Project Identification ...        **..............  "..... ..........       2
Bank Objective at Appraisal .....                  .       .... ..          3
Project Description.............. .......*** **                             3
Project Design Modification ................................                4
Project Cost and Finance........ ........ 5.....         ..***.. 5
Loan Agreement   ............ ... ........................                  5
Issues Discussed and Resolved ..............................                6
Project Conditions            .............                                 7
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....................................                 8
Kanagement Organization .....................     .                         8
Procurement of Equipment .....................  .                           8
Land    Development ....................................8
Extension Centers and Activities...........................                 9
Technical Assistance and Training.
Provided By FAO Under WUDP Financing .....................                9
Civil Works (Construction of Farm Roads) .................. 0              10
Technical Aspects of the Project ...........................               10
Accoumtiu  and Auditing ...................... .............               10
AherDee to Coveoats ....... o..............................                10
rv.   PROJM                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
Phyica  D evlpet ................................. o.............. 11
AgIcutua  IpaJct QCT......... o...... o...................................     11
Environmental Impactm....... ......... ......................              12
Economic Impact............................................                12
V.     INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE. ....... . ....... . ... ..... . ..o             13
Ove vie............................                                        13
Project Management ..................... o ............. ..                13
This document has a retricted distuibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
Thi doumet as  retrite ditriutin nd  ay e sedby eciiets nlyin heperormnc



SYRIA.N ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULfU RAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
LOAN. 214-SYR
1982-1986
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Cor.tinued)
PAGE
VI.   IBRD PERFORMANCE ...................... .                          13
VII. MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED ........... .... ................             14
ANNEXES:
Annex 1 ........................         .                         15
Annex 2 ................ ...................................       16
MAPS:
IBRD 1575IR- Project Provinces
IBRD 15752-RI- Project Area



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2124-SYR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Southern
Regional Agricultural Development Project in Syria, for which Loan 2124-SYR
in the amount of US$22.0 million was approved on April 6, 1982. The loan
was cancelled on June 30, 1988, two years behind the original closing date,
with an undisbursed balance of US$10.5 million.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department III of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal and President's
Reports, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.
The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and
sent to the Borrower for comments on December 7, 1989.  No comments were
received.



- II -
SYRXAIG ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHER§ REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEM
LOAN NUMBER 2124 SYR
PROJECT CO"PLETIOt REPORT
iasic Data Sheet
KgY PRGJECT DATA
Appraisal                                        4prtOUI               Actual ot             Actual as I of
Um E                                              stlmt                Zatimt.              Xgtlted A*tual
Total Project Cost                                        76.3               61.0                         80
(USS million)
Credit Amount (USS mt lion)                               22                 11.5                         52.3
Gate of Board Approval                             05/17/82                   -
Date of Effectiveness                              08/17/82            05/17/83
Date Physical Components Completed                 06030/85                   -
Proportion then Completed                                                   12S
Closing Oate                                       06/o 0/86          06/30/88 A/                          _
Economic Rate of Return                                   18                  A                            -
financial Performance                                    40                  NA                            _
Institutional Performance                                  -              Mixed                            -
Technical Performance                                      -             Mixed                             -
Number of Direct Beneficiaries (Farm Families)    10900 
a/ Cancellation date
CLMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY                                              l           la           Al          a             fi          Az
Appraisal Estimate (USS millio-e                            8.4         12.8         14.5       22.00
Actual (USS million)                                        -           -            2.5        10.00
Actual as % of Estimate                                     -           -           17          52.3 1/       NA
Gate of Final Oisbursement                  06/30/86
1/ USSlO,S00.000.0o was canceled on 04/87
MtSSIh DATA
Gate      No. of    Man-days    Specializations   Performance                      Types of "ission
(mo/yr)   Persons   in fields   Represented As    Rating  k/    trends e/          Problems A/
Identification   12/n7
Preparation I    10/78
Preparation II   12/80
Appraisal         12/81
Supervision 1    06/82         1          20          A.8                    2             1
Supervision 2    09/83         1           4          a                      2             1                M
Supervision 3    10/83         1           i5         C                      3             l                H
Supervision 4    07/84         3          26          A.B.C                  3             1                N
Supervision S    05/84         3          12          A.B.C                  2             1                M
Supervision 6    04/85         1           5          A                      3             1                H
Supervision 7    11/85         3           1S         A,8 (AIFAO)            2              1               N
Supervision 8    04/86         2          12          A.B                    2             2                M
Supervision 3    12/86         2           8          8.D                    1             1
Total                         ii         laZ          A.B.C.O
A/  A=Agriculturalist. B=Agri-Economist. C=Engineering. O=Consultant
k/ luProblem free or minor problems; 2=Noderate problems and 3=fajor problems
c/ latmproving 2zStationary and 3=Oeteriorating
Ul FaFinancial. T=Tschnical. MManagerial O-Other
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                                   Syria
Executing Agency                          Steering Committee and MAAR - PCU
fiscal Year                               January I to Oecember 31
Name of Currency (abbreviatton)            Syrian Pounds (LS)
Currency Exchange Rate:                   US$1.00 = LS3.95
Appraisal Year Average             US$1.00 a LS3.95
Intervening Years Average          USS1.00 a LS3.9S
3230c                                 Completion Year Average            US$1.00 - LS3.95



- iii -
BASIC D&XA SHEET
(Cone d)
STAFF  INPUT
a 4     1        11                             111i  9               a        a3       69      a3       a        6        aMAL
~~lr~n 7m7               *n   ou £,, 1 
AUI ^                                 a
NMI UES      LSLI                    FMMUU.                      .        .        .        .        .      2.      1.3       .9        .        .       .
Ma                 .        .        .        .        .        .       .        .        .    33.4         .       .        .        .        .        . "..
vmits              .        .        .        .        .        .       .        .        .      2.3     s.       19.4    14.3    a2.0       .9        .      L
an                 .        .        .        .        .        .        .      .1       .4       1         .      .9                 .        .        .     L3
mm t                                                * .0    .0       .0       .0*      .0       .0    34.2       1.4    41.1,    0.1       6S       9.4    14.3    12.0       s.s       .4   2524



- iv -
SYR:AN .ARA! PREPU BLrC
SOUTHER.N REGIONAL AGRICCLTPRAL _)EV-L' !EN7   .E_,
LOALN NUMBER 2124 SYR
1982-1986
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project was designed
as a pilot project in an overall plan for the development of rainfed
agriculture. It was the first rainfed project initiated by the Governuent of
Syria (GOS).
The project was co-financed by IFAD and supported by a grant from
UNDP.  The co-financing was not clearly understood by the GOS atd contributed
to a one-year delay in project ratification.    The UNDP grant was designated
for technical assistance, training, and strengthening of institutional
capabilities, while the loans from IBRD and IFAD financed the foreign exchange
(55X and 45S, respectively).
Ob2ectve
The project goal was to bring rocty and hilly land under cultivation
and recultivate some of the fallow land in the southern region of Syria that
normally enjoys reasonable rainfall. The two sites designated for the project
were Dara'a and Sp-ieida. It was assumed that the socioeconomic structures in
both provinces would permit maximization of the project's ultimate economic
and social benefits. Major project objectives were to strengthen the
institutional capability for planning and managing complex projects and to
increase agricultural production by introducing better farming practices and
increasing the area of cultivated rainfed land.
The project endured the usual slow start (two years delay is typical
In externaUly financed aguicultural projects in Syria).  In the initial stage,
several tenders were prepared and sent to the Batk but no action ws taken.
Consistent with project implementation in Syria, once the initial delay was
resolved, equipmat procurement and land develo; 'ant proceeded at a faster
rate. The project was cancelled at a very critical stage in its progress
toward achieving its objectives. This cancellation might have jeopardized the
ultimate Government goal, which is the development of a rainfed agricultural
program. Although the institutional arrangements and the extension services
progressed satisfactorily during the life of the project, their impact could
not be evaluated.



v 
Regglts
The project had no measurable impact and ERR could not be
recalculated at completion. The success of this project depended on the
integration of its components, which demanded special and sophisticated
managerial skills not only to administrate the project but also to monitor
and evaluate it. Neither the donor nor the borrower addressed the
integration process adequately, although technical assistance and training
were included in the project design to overcome any management weaknesses.
Lessns Leuaed
While the overall project impact cannot be evaluated because it was
cancelled before completion, a few lessons were learned:
(1) When management capacity is inadequate to effectively
administrate integrated agricultural projects, the project
design should include measures to develop that capacity.
Specific suggestions include:
(a) training components that address specific shortcomings in
the borrowers' past management performance; and
(b) a longer project implementation period to permit the
borrower to adjust to Bank procurement procedures.
(2) Project design should take into consideration any consistencies
between the borrower's rules and regulations and the Bank's
guidelines and procedures and address the issue to preclude
problems arising during the implementation period.
(3) Project supervisions (by the Bank) should have experlenci aDd
qualifications consistent with the project's complexity. The
specific expertise required for supervising each component could
have been determined in the design stage.
This project required the establisbhent of a Steering Committee as an
autonom_us Government entity to act as coordinator between the policy/decision
maker and the various managers and to supervise/monitor project managemnt.
The Steering Comittee was created, but did not function. The Bank could have
considered this to be a coveat violation and Intervened to assure that the
Co ittee fictioned properly, but no such action was taken by the Bank.
Proper amitoring and coordination would have improved the project
impl e.tatioa.



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
LOAN NUNIBER 2124 SYR
1982-1986
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Historically, agriculture was an important sector of the Syrian
economy, comprising about 202 of the GDP and 25S of export earnings (cotton,
tobacco, fruit, vegetables, wool and hides). This share fell to 191 in the
mid-1970s, but agriculture remains a crucial sector in the total economy
because of the direct and associated secondary employment. These
macro-economic indicators underscore the importance of developing the sector,
which affects the overall development of the economy.
1.02     The land area of Syria totals 18.5 million ha, of which about 6
million were cultivated at the time of the project, the remaining two-thirds
being too arid for cultivation. Production on rainfed lands is unpredictable
and restricted by the erratic amount and distribution of rainfall during
October-May.   Major crops under rainfed cultivation are cereals, cotton and
secondary crops, including olives and fruits.
1.03     Population growth has outstripped agricultural production growth
since the early 1970s. While the relative decline in the size and importance
of agriculture is characteristic of the early stages of transformation to an
industrial economy, the Syrian economy did not undergo the transformation
consistent with broad-based economic development.
1.04      In addition to the physical constraints (land and water). other
constraints to growth of agricultural production included:
(1) Price intervention policies (e.g., price ceilings on
agricultural staples), designed to achieve social and income
equlties, bad a subsfdiary effect of reducing farmers'
production incentives.
(2) Planning and implementation were weak. The State Planning
Comai.o i formalated agricultural strategies based largely on
ad hoc judgments, without the feasibility studies and the
agron.d c, technological and climatic databases needed for fully
iafozed decision.
(3) The allocation of public investment was inconsistent with
agricultural growth targets.
1.05     The potential for increasing agricultural production in Syria was
quite high. Additional lands, both rainfed and irrigated could be reclaimed
and brought under cultivation. Further, average yield levels were low
compared with neighboring countries indicating that productivity gains could
be exploited, but required the estab'lishment of agricultural research centers,



supported by farm level extension services to develop and transfer technology
to farmers.
1.06     The Government's own well-intended actions, which could collectively
be classified as sector policy, were poorly conceived.   The Government
successfully redistributed land among the rural population in an effort to
promote equity, but it was less successful in planning sectoral strategy.
Price policy programs designed to encourage agricultural production produced
negative rather than positive incentives. While recognition of the
constraints and formulation of the development plans was an important stride
toward improving the agricultural situation, these plans, particularly land
reclamation required external support for implementation.
1.07     Two southern provinces, Dara'a and Suweida, selected for this project
account for 52 and 101 respectively of the total rural population, and about
81 of the cultivated land. This region was one of the best for the
development of rainfed agriculture; the soils were generally good, and
rainfall was adequate over a large area. Thus it was assumed that the
probability of a successful rainfed agricultural development project in this
area was greater than elsewhere, making it the preferable location for a pilot
project strengthening administrative and implementation capacity would be an
integral part of the project.
EL PROJECT FORMULATION
Piect  tion
2.01     The project was first identified by Syrian staff and was proposed by
an FAO/CP identification mission in December 1977. An FAO/CP mission prepared
a reconnaissance report in July 1978 and proposed that the Bank finance the
project. In December 1978, the FAO/CP recomended that the Bank promptly
appraise the project, emphasizing the importance of this project to the Syrian
macro economy and the development of the agricultural sector. The project was
designed to address two major concerns:
(1) appropriate, cost-effective technology transfer to the farmers
in the rainfed areas
(2)  .etablishant of s*aU cost-effective irrigation systems.
The FAMCF mission expected full realization of the project goals and
anticipated an Economic Rate of Return of 422 for the total project (69% field
crops, 2Z1 fruit trees and 281 irrigation).
2.02     Because of the relatively lon; interval between project preparation
and pre-appraisal in 1980, the preparation data were no longer valid. The
pre-appraisal mission requested current data and provided the Government with
questionnaires to assist them- in gathering the needed data on the technical,
financial and organizational aspects of the project. In addition, several



-3-
components suffered serious information gaps. A follow-up mission provided
additional assistance in preparing the project.
2.03     The project's main objectives were to increase production of primary
agricultural comaodities and to promote equitable income distribution. The
obJectives were to be achieved by introducing improved dry land farming
techtiiques on a large scale and building up the supportive services needed to
sustain them, particularly to strengthen the capability of research and
extension services. The proposed project was to be implemented over five
years and improve the production of rainfed field crops (106,000 ha), fruit
trees (7,000 ha), and irrigated vegetables (1,800 ha) in higher rainfall
regions of Dara'a and Suweida provinces.
Bank Objective at Appraisa
2.04     The Bank's lending strategy was to finance selected projects in
helpi.ng the Government attain and sustain its growth and self-sufficiency
objectives. The Bank had previously financed three agricultural projects:
two in the irrigation subsector and one for livestock development. In
general, the physical implementation of the projects was satisfactory, save
the Balikh irrigation project. Institutional problems arose in the early
stages of the livestock project, delaying initiation of the project, but
subsequently, dedicated management improved the rate of progress. To mitigate
institutional problems in the SRADP, a Steering Committee was established to
supervise management.
2.05     While investments in irrigated agriculture were encouraged and
supported by the Bank, the potential for developing rainfed agriculture
remamed unexploited. The limited supply of water for irrigation indicated
the need for investments in this neglected subsector. Rainfed agricultural
production was the primary source of income for the majority of the rural
population. Further, the cost of improving agricultural practices to increase
rainfed production was relatively less than the cost of irrigation systemo to
Induce similar increase in production and income.
ProJet
2.06     The project was designed to improve rainfed agricultural production
in two southwst provinces, Dbraa' and Suweida. The project components
consisted of:
(1) field c-op development covering about 94,000 ha (68,000 ha in
the province of Dara'a and 26,000 ha in the province of Suweida)
by:
(a) introducing secondary tillage during seed preparation;
(b) reducing fallow in the crop rotation scheme and thus
increasing the annual area under cultivation by nearly
16,000 ha;



(c) derocking an aggregate area of about 20,000 ha; and
(d) applying on a large scale improved agricultural practices,
such as application of fertilizers, herbicides and
pesticides, all of which were previously applied only on a
limited scale.
(2) fruit tree development covering about 7,000 ha (3,600 ha in
Dara'a province and 3,400 ha in Suweida province) including
derocking, leveling, terracing, providing farm machinery for
tillage purposes, and covering maintenance costs;
(3) construction of farm access roads (56 Km of third-class asphalt,
59 Km gravel and 70 Km of dirt tracks) to serve the project area;
(4) training staff for agricultural mechanization, including tractor
drivers, mechanics, combine operators, and machinery servicing;
(5) strengthening the agricultural extension services by
estab1ishing 17 extension centers (9 for Dara'a and 8 for
Suweida); training of extension personnel; and strengthening the
project administration by establishing a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) in Damascus and Implementing Units in Dara'a and
Suweida; and
(6) providing technical assistance to strengthen the extension
service (90 man-months), train personnel in project evaluation
techniques (24-man months) and assist in setting up a system for
monitoring and evaluating the program (84 man-months), and
financing external training.
PiM]Wt Dei    Joe
2.07     In processing the proposed loan, lank manageaent concluded that
project risks and budgetary Impacts could be reduced by treating the exercise
as a pilot project and focus on improving institutional capacity.
Consequently, it was decided to: (a) extend the level of implementation from
five-year to eight-year development programs; and (b) finance the project In
two phase.
2.08     Phase x (1982-46) consisted of establishing a PCU and Implementing
Units, providing technical assistance, strengthening the extension services,
developtoy 27S of the program area for field crops and 662 for orchards and
constructing far access roads to serve this area. This approach allowed the
development of a nucleus of indigenous experts and specialists who would not
only accelerate the implementation of the second phase of the project, but
also would design and implement parallel projects in other regions in the
country. Phase II (1986-89), to be financed under a subsequent loan,
consisted of completing the project elements, with modifications to the
original design based on the experience gained in Phase I (see the following
Table).



Program Phase                        AREA CNDER PROGRAM
and Year         Derocked Field    Other Field    Fruit Tree        Total
Crop Areas      Crop Areas       Areas
…_____- _____--…(ha)…--- …--------
Phase r:
1982                                  700
1983                3,000           1,300           1,000         5,300
1984                5,350           3,300           1,800        10,400
1Q85                5,350           6,400           1,800        13,550
Subtotal           13,700          11,700           4,600        30,000
Phase II:
1986                5,350          11,400           1,800        18,550
1987                1,950          16,550             600        19,110
1988                    -          18,050               -        18,050
1989                    -          15,300               -        15,300
Subtotal            7,300          61,300           2,400        71,000
Grand Total        21,000          73,000           7,000       101,000
Project Cost and Finance
2.09    The total estimated cost of the project was US$145.2 million
including physical and price contingencies and allowance for expected price
increases. The cost of Phase I was estimated at US$76.3 million. The Bank
loan, US$22 million, financed 52S of the foreign exchange component of the
project. The balance was financed by IFAD and UNDP as shown below.
Financing Plan:                   Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ million)
Bank Loan                                       22.0         22.0
IFAD                                -           18.0         18.0
UNMD                                             2.2          2.2
GovCzm  t Coatribution             24.6          -           24.7
AC3 Coatribution                    9.4          -            9.4
TOTAL                        34.1         42.2         76.3
Leon AIIbmenut
2.10    Negotiations for signing the legal agreement were held in Washington
D.C., February 11-18, 1982. During the negotiations, the following issues
were discussed and resolved:



-0
(1) Agreement was reached that the Central Organization for
Financial Control would be the independent auditor.
(2) It was agreed to extend the services of Atkins Associates (UK
consulting firm) to provide the necessary technical assistance;
the terms of reference were modified accordingly.
(3) The GOS assured the Bank and IFAD that a study on agricultural
prices, interest rates and subsidies would be completed by
mid-1984.
ksses Dicussed and Resolved
2.11     Subsidzed Low-Interest Rate on Credit Fiumceng.  The prevailing real
interest rate on agricultural loans was ranging between 42 and 5.5S on most
short- and medium-term loans. Given, however, Syria's centrally planned
economy with administratively determined investment allocations, it was
asserted that the interest rate had limited effect on resource allocation, but
had significant effect on resource mobilization. It was recommended that this
issue be addressed by carrying out a comprehensive study of prices and price
policies, interest rates and subsidies to identify the factors that impeded
economic development.    On the other hand, since all the farm machinery to be
supplied under this project would be purchased and subsequently owned by
individual farmers or farm groups, the Bank agreed to the ACB low interest
rate lending policy.
2.12     Although the prices and subsidies study was completed in January
1985, the documents that were consulted for this report neither alluded to the
quality of the study, nor correlated the recommendations from the study with
the impact of subsidies on the project beneficiaries. Given the lack of
information, it is not possible to determine the impact of subsidies on the
project.
Z.13     Subloan *Ftee ssb       The Government was the borrower and ACE was the
channel for sub-lending the project funds. To preclude any confo;sion about
the role of the ACB in appraisal of the agricultural project, it was
recomended that the project unit staff in Dara'a and Suweida have
representatives seconded from the ACB, whose primary responsibilities would be
appraisal and supervislon; although technical aspects of appraisal would be
the primar eoncaer of staff from AMU. After a three-year delay, a computer
cash-Rflow mol wms dewloped for subloan appraisal and was to be operated by
a traind staff. However, the model was not fully assessed due to project
cancellatias.
2.14      INtimt for c_. The SAR proposed that the
project finance the purchaee of the derocking equipment, which would be
operated and controlled by Project Implementation Sub Units (PISU-MAAR).
Although the public sector institutions had limited skills in undertaking this
task, it remained a public sector- responsibility and encountered only minimal
problems and constraints.



245      Technology Package.  The high yield returns for this pro,ect were
based on only one input, machinery. Other inputs crucial for realizing the
projected higher production were assumed to be available to the farmers. The
project assumed that all farm families would immediately adopt the improved
technology; a heroic assumption if supporting infrastructure and services,
such as research and extension, input supply and mechanization support, are in
need of strengthening.   An additional constraint to rapid adoption of new
technologies was the high risk of low rainfall. The actual adoption rate is
unknown as the project was cancelled before the actual technology adoption by
the farmers was assessed.   There is no indication, however, that any
provision was made to expedite the rate of technology adoption by farmers.
2.17     Cofinancing.  To reduce the cost of project financing, the GOS was
in favor of borrowing from other agencies with less costly funds. This was
accomplished by borrowing a portion of the project's foreign exchange
requirements from IFAD. Cross effectiveness conditions required the
ratification of both projects; this, in turn, delayed the effectiveness of the
Bank loan for about one year because ratification of the IFAD agreement was
delayed. Some of the initial implementation delays were probably caused by
the borrower's lack of understanding of the cofinancing structure. However,
on the positive side, IFAD continued to finance the project long after the
Bank suspended disbursement in June 1986.
Projeet Conditions
2.18     Two conditions were to be met to reach an effective loan agreement:
(g) establishment of a Steering Comimttee for the project by the end
of 1982, and
(2) a subsidiary legal agreement (administrative and financial)
between the WAAR and ACB by the end of 1982. The former is
discussed below; the impact of the latter was not mentioned in
the documents that were consulted.
iL. PROJECT IMPLEMETMATION
Ste     C CGmmittee
3.01     Although the Steering Committee was established on September 12,
1982, the Comittee mt only once during the life of the project. In July
1984, the  uiervision mission recomended regular Committee meetings.  But
subsequent Bank documents consulted made no further comments on the Committee
or scheduled meetings. The Committee and its function as envisaged by SAR
were not examined by the Bank supervision mission. The inclusion of a
Steering Committee for this project was a product of previous lessons learned
in implementing agricultural projects but after the July 1984 supervision
mission, this aspect was never supervised by Bank missions.



Management Organization
3.02     The MAAR had the overall responsibility for implementing the
project. PCU's were to be established by December 12, 1981. but initial
organization and management staffing did not occur until October 1983. Even
then managers were unable to devote full time to the project because of their
full time responsibilities in the MAAR. Only in October 1985, were the
managers and staff of the PCU assigned to work exclusively on project
activities. The delay in assigning full time management and staff seriously
delayed the implementation of project activities.
Procurement of Eouipment
3.03     The Bank received on June 6, 1982 (before the project become
effective), tender documents for procurement of farm machinery, derocking
equipment, and vehicles for extension and project administration. The tenders
were not processed until almost a year later because of the lengthy procedures
for reviewing and evaluating the bids. The suipervision reports faulted
inefficient management for the delays in procurement and equipment delivery,
but neglected to discuss the impact of the political environment and the
extent of Bank guidance. A delay in awarding a US$8 million contract was due
to the Bank's delay in resolving a critical procurement issue prior to
contract award. The issue was initially raised in October 1983, and was
resolved only in October 1985. To imply that the management was the cause of
delayed procurement is at oversimplification of the issue. Loan effectiveness
was delayed about nine months but supervision reports make no reference to the
impact of this on implementation delays.
3.04     With the exception of stone rackers and stone pickers, all equipment
was procured and delivered to site by May 1986. Additional heavy transport
and derocking equipment wa needed to complement the existing fleet and to
expedite the land development activities and the Bank encouraged its
procurement despite the fact that disbursements were suspended. The Bank
approved the tender documents for ICB procurement of equipment with IFAD
financing.
3.05     The difficulties encountered in processing the tenders in the initial
stage of the procure mot-were gradually resolved as project management became
more familima with the Bantkl procurement requirements. But, the need for
specific orientation and tratiing for adopting and understanding Bank
procurement Sbmuld have been assessed at project appraisal. The process of
adapting * adopting guidelines requires an orientation that was not
considered at appraisal.
Lad Development
3.06     The final supervision report, dated December 1986, praised the
outstanding accomplishments in land development activities that were
undertaken immediately after delivery of the equipment and machinery. The
mission further recommended. exteding the closing date for two years, based on



- 9 -
management performance, and requested bank management approval of the GJOS plan
to purchase additional equipment valued at US$15 million.
3.07     While the derocking proceeded at an exceptionally fast rate, the
complementary terracing and field preparation suffered technical problems,
including appropriate site selection (steeply sloping land), supplemental
irrigation needs, fertilizer misuse, and shortages of seedlings. With the
exception of the supplemental irrigation, all the problems were eventually
solved. If the rate of progress made in 1986 was sustained, land development
would have been completed in 1988 consistent with the revised schedules.
3.08     Poor planning of the derocking process caused serious and, in some
cases, irreparable damage to heavy equipment. In addition, derocking land
without integrating land development caused severe soil erosion.
Exteni on Centers and Activities
3.09     The construction of 17 centers was completed by the end of 1983,
consistent with the revised schedules. The staffing of these centers (see
annex 1) was somewhat delayed, but eventually were staffed with trained
managers and staff who fully carried out the extension programs. The
extension activities progressed on schedule despite the shortage of vehicles,
and yield increases of 40-702 were obtained with good farming practices.
3.10     Farmers adoption of new technologies was critical to project success
but was scarcely mentioned in supervision reports. The improvement of farming
techniques as well as farm planning (integrated farming) is the end product of
successful extension. While the supervision reports praised the activities of
the extension services, they were short on measuring the real changes in
farming practices.
Technia  sssac amd ITalal  Provkded
by FAO Uader UNDP Fb_
3.11     The training programs for farm machinery, heavy equipment and
vehicles operators progressed on schedule.  Short-term training also
progressed in accordance with the outlines developed. The impact of this
training on acceleratins the rate of technology adoption was not evaluated,
however.
3.12     Tbe UND/1O teo  proposed a monitoring and evaluation program that
was reviewid asd apprsved by Bank staff. The monitoring and evaluation
result& were epected to assist management design annual work plans. Although
these annua work plans were considered satisfactory to the Bank, they did not
integrate the project activities, and physical and financial plans were
inconsistent.
3.13     Bank documents contain neither an assessment of the quality of
training nor the impact of training on the achievement of project objectives.
However, a reconnaissance assessment concluded that the training component did
not address the management development.



- 10 -
3.14     The development of a Cash Flow Simulation Model to enable the ACe
staff to appraise the financial viability of subloans was a project
component.  The model was development in May 1986 by a UNDP/FAO consultant,
but operating information and the impact on ACB lending are lacking.
Civil Works
3.15     Only three roads were completed and 21 roads were in different stages
of construction when the project was cancelled. A shortage of construction
materials was a major cause of construction delays but implementation
schedules were not revised to reflect this constraint.
Technical Aspects of the Project
3.16     The SAR described the project as developing land for rainfed
agriculture. Experience indicated that certain land was impossible to derock
and to develop, yet was included in the initial stage of the derocking. From
its conception, the land development component underwent technical
difficulties including a shortage of seedlings and the need for supplemental
irrigation.
AccontintX and Auditing
3.17     The Bank's auditing requirements were not well understood resulting
in continuous delays in submitting accounting and auditing reports.
Initially, project funds were inappropriately integrated into the MAAR
accounting system preventing separate auditing of Bank fund. Only in May
1986, did the GOS appoint a qualified independent auditor to undertake the
complex and lengthy task of separating the project account from the MAAR
account. At that time Bank staff recommended initiating an autonomous
accounting of the project while completing the project auditing report for the
previous years.
Adherence to the Covenants
3.18     At the time of cancellation, there were no covenants in default but
compliance with many covenants had suffered a two-year delay. Supervision
reports and other Bank documents expressed more concern with GOS adherence to
the coveants tban the functions for which the covenants were established and
the impact of these functions on achieving the project objectives. An example
was the establisUment of the Steering Coimittee.
d          I



- Hl -
Disbursement
3.19     The disbLrsement schedules as envisaged in the SAR were:
IBRD FY (US$ million)
Estimated Disbursement             1983      1984       1985      1986
Annual                              8.4       4.4        1.7       7.5
Cumulative                          8.4      12.8       14.5      22.0
Because of delayed procurement, the first disbursement was made in December
1984.  By March 1986, there was a balance of US$15 million remained, of which
about US$12 million was undisbursed from the Bank loan. The project
appraisers appear to have underestimated the amount of heavy duty equipment
needed for derocking and overestimated equipment prices. The supervision
reports implied that the US$12 million surplus was the result of management
procrastination and price fluctuations, but did not blame the design
assumptions. The GOS requested the Bank's approval to procure additional
heavy equipment and farm machinery designated for the first year of Phase II.
Assuming the suspension would be lifted, the Bank approved a two-year
extension of the closing date.
IV. PROJECT IMPACT
PhYsi  Development
4.01     The construction of the 17 extension centers was completed and the
promotion of good farming practices and farm planning continued over most of
the project period. At the time of cancellation, only limited land was
derocked. Thus, the impact of physical infrastructure development on
production and productivity is unknown.
4.02     The project's primary goal was to increase agricultural production
throu1h i proved agrioltural practices and technology.  Greater use of
meebanical equipment was the baic technological improvement; it was perceived
that this would facilitate more timely implementation and improve quality
control (e.g. drilling and row planning instead of broadcast seeding).
However, it was realised that mechanization needed to be complemented with
other inputs to realize the full benefits. Farm mechanization was deferred to
second phase but the additional inputs of fertilizers, pesticides, high
yielding varieties and seedlings were dependent on institutional development
and strong extension services. The full agricultural impact of the project is
unknown.
4.03     A second major objective of the project was to strengthen the
institutional capabilities and managerial skills in planning rainfed



agricultural projects.  Improved institutional capabiLities here erfectiv-vy
demonstrated during the project through high yields on farmer field trials.
4.04     Early project termination, prevented the full development of
extension and management skills. Thus, in this respect, the project failed to
meet its target as a pilot project for the development of rainfed
agriculture. Assessments of the institutional development and the extension
services were mixed, but the establishment of linkages between the extension
services and the International Agricultural Research Center (ICARDA) located
in Aleppo and the ACSAD, .a regional agricultural research center were
unanimously recommended.
4.05     The third objective of the project was to increase the cropped area
through land development. The land developmer,t component was just beginning
to gain momentum at the time of the cancellation. The last supervision
mission observed adverse but reversible technical and managerial errors.
Without the Bank's supervision with experienced technical staff to identify
and resolve these errors, the land would have suffered irreparable soil
erosion. The absence of continued technical support and guidance caused by
cancellation may have jeopardized successful land development.
4.06     A major related objective was a study of agricultural prices,
interest rates and subsidies. It was expected that recommendations from this
study would provide the basis for shifting sectoral policy more toward
privatization and deregulatica of agricultural investments. The Bank had
little interest or comment by the time the study was completed in 1985.
Environmentl mnpact
4.07     The project was designed to protect the land by reducing soil erosion
and increasing moisture conservation. Late equipment arrival limite4 work on
land develop.ent to the May-September period just prior to cancellation. The
first stage of derocking ended prior to integrating the terracing and leveling
components. Thus, a preliminary assessment of the project impact on the
environment indicated probable soif erosion during the following rainy season.
4.08     Tho Economic   ate of feturn on investment for the entire development
program was assessed at about 18% in the SAR. The program was expected to
change the cropping pattern, increase yields, and induce the cultivation of
fallow and sloping land. With the exception of demonstrated yield increases,
other requisite data were unavailable, prohibiting an assessment of the
economic impact of the project per 8s. At the time of cancellation, almost
all equipment was procured and the extension services were functioning, which
would facilitate the desired agricultural changes, but most roads remained to
be constructed. Also, the rate at which farmers adopted the new technology
was unknown.



- 13 -
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Overview
5.01     The Bank has consistently experienced institutional problems in the
initial stages of agricultural/irrigation projects, delaying project startup.
To guard against this problem, a covenant was included in this project
requiring the establishment of a Steering Committee to coordinate
implementation of the project components and to solve unforeseen problems.
The Committee was established (3.01) but met only once during the life of the
project. There is no indication why the Bank requested the formation of this
entity yet refrAined from insisting it perform its functions.
Prjct MangKement
5.02     The MAAR did not provide full-time staff and adequate management
until shortly before cancellation, at which time management performance
improved. The initial implementation delays were largely caused by inadequate
management attention, a frequent occurrence in agricultural projects. During
project preparation, the Bank staff attempted to design a project consistent
with management capacity by proposing an implementation period of eight years
instead the traditional five years. Subsequently, the project was reduced to
a four-year time slice with a proposed four-year, phase II project to follow.
However, this did not address the problem of weak management and
implementation capacity.
5-03     The weak planning and management capacity was to be addressed by the
training components the UNDP/FAO were to implement. The supervision reports
contained mixed evaluations of the quality of the training component. But,
the evaluation of management performance is to a certain extent an evaluation
of training.
VL MDM  PERFORMANCE
6.01     The complexity of integrated development projects makes them
difficult to implement; the complexity of this project appears to have been
underestimated making implementation more difficult than anticipated. The
need for mltidisciplioary supervision prevailed throughout the implementation
period and utmerous recmmendatious were made. Bark supervision reports
reflected a ability to provide advice and assistance for simple problems, but
was lees capable in solving problems that were more complex. Further, the
Bank's reluctance to make recommendations pertinent to covenant compliance may
have diverted the project from its objectives.
6.02     The Bank objected to the GOS's decision to award a contract for
procurement of 300-hp bulldozers. Thus, the procurement of these bulldozers,
and consequently the land derocking, was delayed for two years.  The Bank's
indecision in neither classifying the Government's choice as misprocurement
nor proposing the retendering of the same contract seriously delayed the land
development components.



VII. MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED
7.01     The project was implemented in an environment of weak management and
a relatively inflexible institutional structure with policies often
inconsistent with those of the Bank. Lessons learned relate to these issues,
include:
(1) Project design should compensate for management inexperienced in
implementing complex integrated agricultural projects by
establishing longer implementation periods and by incorporating
appropriate managerial, as well as technical training. Imposing
a "Steering Committee" to coordinate activities between policy
makers and the various managers is not a desirable
implementation instrument if the borrower is unaccustomed and/or
uninterested in using this type of supervision and monitoring
mechanism. Bank interaction at this level is only as effective
as the steering committee itself. The Bank should be prepared
to allocate more supervision resources to provide more technical
advice.
(2)  The issue concerning difference between the borrower's rules and
regulations on one band and the Bank's guidelines and procedures
on the other, should have been resolved at appraisal. Also, the
Bank should initiate training programs in procurement, etc., for
prospective managers prior to project implementation to assist
in adoption of the agreed guidelines.



- IS -
ANNEX I
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOULTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTU'RAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2124-SYR
1982-1986
PROGRESS ON PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION BY COMPONENT
(SUPERVISION REPORT)
COMPONENT                   DUE       REVISED    Date C/          REMARKS
Project Organization
Framework                   12/81    03/84        10/83
Management Staff             12/81                10/83
Staffing                     12/81    03/84
Equipment & Machinery
Derocking Equipment          12/82    03/84       12/82           Delays in
Vehicles                     12/82    03/84       10/85           processing
Farm Machinery              09/83    03/84        10/85           tenders
Phase II Machinery           12/85
Road Construction           06/82    06/84        3 C 10/85
7 C 12/85
22 C 12/87
Construction of 17           12/82    12/84       12C,10/83
Centers                      12/82    12/84       3NC,10/83
12/82      12/84           2
Staffing                                          323&25TA
Training 69, Agri.           12/82    12/84       65T,10/83
FAO
UND* TA                               05/84       11/85
Training Drivers                                  60T,10/83
Provisio of Trainers                              3P,10/83
Prtvision of Experts
Completion of Study         06/84                 01/85
Maintenance and Repair
Facilities of Equipment
20 Mobile Workshops                               03/85
Cash Flow Model                                   11/85
C/ Completed



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHEPN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2124-SYR
1982-1986
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF DEROCKING
Because of the delays in purchasing equipment, the implementation
schedule for derocking and land establishment of field crop and fruit tree
areas was expected to be as follows:
Field Crops       Fruit Tree Areas        Total
1985               500                   100               600
1986             5,350                 1,800             7,150
1987             5,350                 1,800             7,150
1988             2,500                   900             3,400



D A M A S C U S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M 172
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
S C U                                     ~~~~~~~~Project Area
(E)  Prop-ed RsEmaio. Units
Proposed Asphalt Roads
/                                                            - - - - Pro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nposed Graoel Roeds
-Asphralt Roeds
Glovne[ Roads
Foeld Crops De,ocking
QC  'o,               Bf                                                                                           W=4 F:.I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ed Cr,ops RockFree
£ Agr.c.it.rol School
R Research Stations
f loor M.ll
T                                                 [E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  Storoge & Ref,.gerat- Un il
a   Weather Starrons
Rainfall Zones
0   Teens
\   K                                       -..- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Province Boundaries
TURKEY                                                                                                                                    0~~~~~~~r  01
Ate' Ibe
A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SY/%R l o0                                                                                                                                                                                      2    V        l
K                                   '4- - .                                                                                            INIS     SCAlE     IS     APPIPOXIMA e p p
J 0 R D A N~~~~~~$
RAG                                                                                                            - W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
'g, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~.
.7.7~~~~~~MRC 



