Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3563-SYR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 12, 1982
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture IV
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (As of March 31, 1981)
Currency Unit           =         Syrian Pound (SL)
SL 1.00                 =         US$0.253
US$L.00                            S SL3.95
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Unit                    US Equivalent
1 millimeter (mm)       =         0.039 inches
1 meter (m)             =         3.28 feet
I kilometer (km)       =          0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)          =         2.47 acres
I litre (1)            =          0.264 gallons
1 kilogram (kg)                   2.2 pounds
I metric ton (ton)      =         2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAB                     =         Cooperative Agricultural Bank
GOCPT                   =         General Organization for Cereal Processing
and Trade
GOFM                    =         General Organization for Farm Machinery
GUP                     =          General Union of Peasants
IFAD                    =         International Fund for Agricultural
Development
KiW                     =         Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (Federal
Republic of Germany)
MAAR                    =         Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
SPC                     =         State Planning Commission
UNDP                    =         United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF SYRIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
I em                                                            Page
I.  BACKGROUND ------                                                       I
A.   Introduction  -------------------…-…----------------    I
B.   Sectoral Setting  ----------------------------------   I
Resources  -----------------------------------------   I
Sectoral Performance  ------------------------------   2
Issues of Agricultural Development  ----------------   2
Sector's potential  --------------------------------   6
C.   Agricultural Credit  -------------------------------   8
General  ------------------------------------------   8
Policies and Procedures of Institutional Credit  ---   8
Cooperative Agricultural Bank  ---------------------   9
D.   Government's Development Strategy  -----------------  10
E.   Bank's Sector Development Approach  ----------------  11
F.   Program Formulation  -------------------------------  12
Program Origin  ------------------------------------  12
Rational for the Program's Selection  --------------  12
II.      THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM AND PROJECT  --------------------  14
A.   Introduction  --------------------------------------  14
B.   Program and Project Objectives  --------------------  14
C.   The Development Program  ---------------------------  14
Field Crop Development Program  --------------------  15
Fruit Tree Development Program  --------------------  17
Farm Access Roads  ---------------------------------  18
Extension Development  -----------------------------  18
Technical Assistance  ------------------------------  19
Program Administration  ----------------------------  20
D.   Phasing of the Development Program  ----------------  20
E.   Cost of the Development Program  -------------------  22
F.   The Project:  Time-Slicing Concept  ----------------  23
Description  ---------------------------------------  23
Implementation Schedule  ---…--------------------  23
Cost Estimate  -------------------------------------  24
Financing  -----------------------------------------  25
Procurement  ---------------------------------------  26
Disbursement  -------------------…         -------------  27
Environmental Impact  -----------------------------   28
III. *   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ---------------------------------  29
A.   The Borrower and Implementing Agencies  ------------  29
The Borrower  --------------------------------------  29
Implementing Agencies   -------------------m---------  29
B.   Use of funds  --------------------------------------  31
Flow of Funds  -----------------…----  31
Terms and Conditions  ------------------------------  32
Project Processing Policies and Procedures  --------  33
Cost Recovery  -------------------------------------  33
C.   Progress Reporting, Monitoring, and Evaluation  ----  34
D.   Accounts and Audit  ------------------------------    35
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.      BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATI a  -----------------------------  36
A.  Cropping Pattern, Yield, and Production  -----------  36
B.   hrketing and ihrkets  -----------------------------  38
C.   Qbtput Prices  ------------------------------------- 39
D.  Financial Indicators  ------------------------------  39
Beneficiaries and Their Incomes  -------------------  39
Financial Rate of Return  -----------------… -------- 39
E.   Economic Indicators  ----------------------…-------- 40
F.   Risks  -------…---- -- - -- - -- - --- -- - -- -        42
V.       AGREEENTS REACHED AND RECOMEN)ATICNS  ------------------  43
ANNEXES
Supporting Tables
T-1  Annual Rainfall Data in Program Area  --------------  45
T-2  Altitude, Temperature, and Relative Humidity Data
(for Program Area)  ------------------------------  46
T-3  Rates of Adoptions of Technological Packages in
Field Crop Area Zone  ---------------------------- 47
T-4  Rates of Adoptions of Technological Packages in
Field Crop-Area Zone II  -------------------------  48
T-5  Cost Estimate of the Development Program  ----------  49
T-6  List of Equipment to be Procured Under the Project -  50
T-7  Cost Estimate and Schedule of Expenditure for Project 51
T-8  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan  --  52
T-9  Estimated Local Staffing Requirements for Project
Administration  ---------------------------------- 53
T-10 Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis  ---  54
2.       Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File  --  55
Charts
World Bank - 22879;  Timetable for Key Project Activities  -------  57
World Bank - 22880:  Cganigram of Implementing Agencies  --------  58
MPS
IBBD 15751 - Project provinces
IBBD 15752R- Project Area



I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01.    Agriculture in Syria is an important sector of the economy.  About
half of the population live in the rural areas, and the sector accounts for
about 20% of the GDP (about three-fourths of agricultural production is
accounted for by crops and the remaining by livestock). These macro-economic
indicators underscore the importance of developing the sector which affects
overall development of the economy because of its known linkage effects. This
chapter analyzes the potential for the development of the sector based on
reviews of the agricultural resources along with the development constraints.
A brief review of institutional finance is presented to serve as background to
credit financing. Past sectoral performance and development strategies are
also reviewed for comparison with prospects. The project, which would be a
time-slice of an agricultural development program for the southern region, was
identified (in December 1977) and prepared (in June/July 1978) by FAO/CP in
collaboration with the Government. It was appraised in March/April 1981 by a
team consisting of Messrs. T. Haile-Mariam (Mission Leader/Agricultural
Economist), A. Bose (Credit Specialist), H. Nasr (Agriculturalist), and T.
James (Financial Analyst); M. Marasovic (Horticulturalist from FAO/CP), and B.
Bilbo (Consultant in Farm Machinery).
B. Sectoral Setting
1.02.    Resources.  The country covers about 18.5 million ha.  About 50% of
the total area is occupied by steppe and pastures; 20% consists of forest,
rocky and sandy areas, buildings, roads and water; and the remaining 30% (5.5
million ha) are cultivated. 1/
1.03.    The climate is Mediterranean with hot dry summers and cool rainy
winters. The annual rainfall distribution is uneven. The average annual
rainfall ranges from over 500 mm in the western coastal regions and the north,
to under 250 mm in the arid southern and eastern parts of the country (Map
IBRD 15751). Based on average annual rainfall, the country has been divided
into five zones: I (over 350 mm and not less than 300 mm in two out of three
years), IS (250 mm - 350 mm and not less than 250 mm in two out of three
years), III (over 250 mm and not less than 250 mm in 50% of the time), IV (200
mm - 250 mm and not less than 200 mm in 50% of the time), and V (less than 200
mm).  The most promising potential for rainfed agricultural development lies
in the first two zones.
1.04.    The annual rate of population growth is among the highest in the
world requiring a need for an ever increasing use of scarce resurces to
i/  About 70% of the cultivated land are cropped and the remaining 30% are
fallow. Irrigated agriculture accounts for about 550,000 ha of the
cultivated land and the rest are rainfed.



-2-
feed this growing population. The total population is estimated at about 8.9
million. The agricultural labor force has declined from about 40% of the
total labor force in 1970 to about one third in 1980 due to migration of the
young to the urban areas and to the neighboring oil producing countries in
search of better income opportunities. This has resulted in serious shortages
of farm labor, particuarly during crucial seasons.
1.05.    Sectoral Performance.  From mid-1960 to mid-1970 (a period selected
to represent recent trends) the compound rate of growth of agricultural
production was less than 2% per year,l/ which was low compared to the rate of
population growth.  This had resulted in declining agricultural exports and in
mounting food imports, particularly cereals, in poor rainfall years. The
deficit in basic foodstuffs, which in the case of cereals (mainly wheat), for
example, exceeded 200,000 tons per annum in recent years, along with imports
of other agricultural products such as fruit, vegetables, and sugar. Food
imports increased from about US$ 130 million equivalent in 1971 to about US$
380 million equivalent in 1979. The Government's efforts to lessen the burden
on consumers of rising prices caused by shortages of supply relative to demand
had increased the subsidies. The background to this disappointing sectoral
performance is discussed below.
1.06.    Issues of Agricultural Development.  The issues of agricultural
development may be broadly classified as: natural resource constraints,
deficiencies in farm management, and inadequate institutional and policy
support. These are elaborated below (paras 1.07-1.16).
1.07.    Among the natural resource constraints, water shortage (surface and
groundwater) constitutes a major problem. Most of the rainfed areas in Syria
have low and uneven distribution of rainfall resulting in low yields due to
the exhaustion of soil moisture in mid-spring to early summer, the normal
flowering and grain formation periods. Yields for wheat, for instance,
averaged about 0.7 tons per ha in rainfed areas over the past decade. The
other major natural resource constraint is the limited supply of agricultural
land as most of the country is not suited for cultivation largely due to the
interrelated problem of inadequate water resources. Improved cultural
practices focussing on moisture conservation and on timely seedbed preparation
would be introduced under the proposed investment program.
1/  Based on three year moving averages of value added in constant 1963 factor
costs. Source: IBRD, Syrian Arab Republic Development Prospects and
Policies: Report of a 1977 World Bank Mission, Volume II (February 22,
1980), pg. 196.



- 3 -
1.08.    The cultural practices of production (seed bed preparation,
fertilizer application, weeding, fallow practices, etc.) are often not
satisfactory resulting in poor stands and yields. The timing and quality of
seed bee preparation for cereals and legumes are not adequate. Also, there is
not sufficient attention given to weed control causing inefficient utilization
of the limited rainfall as the weeds compete with crops for the available soil
moisture. While some farmers have started using chemical fertilizers and
herbicides in rainfed areas applications are generally far below optimum
levels due to lack of funds and because of the farmers' reluctance to risk
making such investments in the face of uncertainty regarding the rainfall.
Fallow is traditionally practiced in rainfall zones I and II to conserve
moisture although research results have indicated the lack of yield advantage
of crop-fallow rotation compared to crop-crop rotation. As a result, about
1.7 million ha remain underutilized every year. The proposed project would
address these problems (paras. 2.04-2.12).
1.09.    The institutional constraints refer mainly to the need for
improvement in research and the weakness of the organizations for extension,
and the inadequate capability of public institutions in some areas for
planning and implementing projects.
1.10.    The research programs are planned, organized, financed, and
supervised by the Scientific Directorate of Agricultural Research under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR), located in Douma near
Damascus. The programs, which include breeding and agronomic research, are
carried out at seventeen experiment stations located in different climatic
zones. There are two field crop and one fruit tree stations in the project
area (para. 1.39). One of the field crop stations has been operating in the
area for over 15 years. In this station several experiments have been
conducted on crop management, use of fertilizers, pest control, and
replacement of fallow with seed legumes. The recommendations of these
experiments, which have been successfully practiced by a few progressive
farmers in the project area, have been used in project's analysis. In
addition to research conducted by MAAR, several research activities in cereals
anG legumes are done by international and regional agencies, such as the
International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA) and the
Arabic Center for Studies of Arid Zones and Dryland (ACSAD). There are,
however, potentials for improving the research effort although these are not
critical to the success of the proposed project. Possible areas of
improvement include varietal development especially of seed legumes which are
adapted to mechanical harvesting, development of varieties resistent to low
soil moisture and to diseases (such as Ascoshyta blight wbich attacks
chickpeas), and use of selective herbicides for controling broadleaf weeds in
non-cereal crops and grassy weeds in all crops. The efforts of the diverse
research agencies would also need to be coordinated to avoid duplication of
efforts, work towards common objectives, and use the limited research
resources efficiently. The Government realizes the need for these
improvements and intends to carry them out on its own. Nevertheless, the
proposed project would promote communication, through the extension service,
between researchers and the farming community to ensure that farmers' concerns
would be considered in designing experiments.



-4-
1.11.    The extension service needs substantial strengthening in its
organization and support to increase its size, facilities, and activities.
There are insufficient number of trained personnel; and shortages of
facilities such as audio-visual equipment, farm demonstration tools and
inputs, and vehicles. Fiela activities are spread too thinly as indicated by
the small number of aemonstrations and field visits. These shortcomings have
resulted from weak organization of the service, inadequate recognition in the
past of the potential and effectiveness of extension for improving
agricultural production, and the inadequate allocation of public funds to
build an effective service system. The proposed program would respond to this
institutional problem (paras. 2.17 and 2.18), by building up extension centers
and by providing them with financial resources, personnel, and the necessary
equipment to support the proposed investment program.
1.12.    The Government's sector policy is guided by Law Number 14 of November
9, 1975. The purpose of the law is to determine land use, cropping schemes
and cultivation practices "consistent with the best agricultural techniques
available" to meet specified annual production targets. The implementation of
the Law is based on Annual Agricultural Production Plans prepared by MAAR
within the framework of Five Year Plans, and rested on the Ministry's
responsibility for licensing farmers to carry out these Plans. The
instruments for the application of this law include various penalties and
incentives. The penalties for non-compliance include possible jail sentences
and fines, loss of crops produced in violation of the Plans and confiscation
of the land for unspecified time. The incentives include favorable prices for
inputs and outputs, and access to credit. The Government also has control
over the marketing of many inputs which it uses to promote its land use policy
by providing subsidies. However, because of the difficulty of monitoring
indivicual farmer's activities (whose production decisions are determined by
financial and economic considerations), the extent to which the producers
follow the prescribed cropping patterns is uncertain. In recognition of the
ineffectiveness of subsicies, the Government is in the process of eliminating
the subsidies on inputs.
1.13.    Concerning the marketing of outputs, this function is done both by
the Government and by private merchants. Virtually all of field crops
(watermelons excepted) are marketed by the Government through its General
Organization for Cereal Processing and Trade (GOCPT). Fruit (including
watermelons) are marketed predominantly by private merchants, although a small
proportion is also marketed by the Government's General Company for Food.
GOCPT is responsible for the handling, processing, and distributing most field
crops in the domestic market at Government determined prices, and for handling
the export/import trade in the same commodities. The organization operates
through a network of branches. The performance of the private traders has
been good in marketing fruit (and vegetables) among different regions as
evidenced by strong correlations of prices among markets. They have been
successful in distributing products. There is keen competition among the
merchants, and the prices received by the producers reflect fairly accurately
the market demand and supply conditions. The farmers have responded
positively to the transmittal of price and quality information, and this may
account for the steady growth of the production of fruit in the region over
the past years.



- 5 -
1.14.    As can be implied from the above description of the marketing system,
the domestic prices of outputs are determined by a mixed system of administed
and free market prices. The system of administered prices applies to cereals
and seed legumes which are marketed by GOCPT. In the past, these prices were
normally lower than international prices of comparable commodities, but there
are recent moves by the Government to correct this situation as described
below (para. 1.16). The stated objectives of this policy include stabilizing
prices, increasing producers' income, allocating production, achieving
self-sufficiency in some crops, improving country-wide nutrition, and keeping
product prices received by farmers in line with input prices. Prices of fresh
fruit and vegetables are determined within the market oriented system based on
demand and supply.  In addition to the above policy instruments, the other
major instrument used by the Government to attain its objectives of growth
with equity (paras. 1.35-1.36) is through the allocation of investment
resources. This is discussed below.
1.15.    The Government, through various land reform moves, was successful in
distributing land among the rural population to promote equitable income
distribution, but it was not equally successful to complement this effort by
planning specific investment projects and by formulating consistent policy for
overall sectoral growth and development. Planning was characterized by the
absence of a link between investments proposed and aggregate growth targets
articulated in various Five Year Plans. Project selection lacked the benefits
of satisfactory feasibility studies mainly due to the inadequate institutional
framework for project identification and evaluation. About 30% of public
investments during the past decade were allocated to the sector but
three-fourths of these were allocated for heavy irrigation infrastructure
although the irrigation subsector accounted for only about 10% of the
cultivated area. Investments for rainfed agriculture were small although that
subsector accounted for (and would continue to account for) over 80% of the
cultivated and cultivable area. Also, many of the irrigation projects did not
have the desired development effect as they were beset with heavy cost
overruns and with poor operation and maintenance of the infrastructure, all
due to the unsatisfactory institutional capability to implement such types of
projects and due to various technical problems. These difficulties had
resulted in delayed accrual of benefits and less than expected increases in
crop yields. Partly as a result of this experience, less emphasis is now
*          given to large-scale new irrigation projects, and rainfed agriculture is being
given increasing priority. Also increasing recognition is being given to the
need for proper evaluation of projects before approving financing. In future
new projects would receive financing only if their contribution to
agricultural growth has been demonstrated and satisfactory feasibility studies
prepared. The proposed project has provided in-service training to the
Government's technicians by involving them in preparing the project and
exchanging with them views on techniques of project planning. This effort
would be continued during the project's implementation phase.
1.16.    The extent to which the Government's policy pursued so far had
attained the intended objectives is unclear at best, and at worst it could
have adverse-Ly affected the economic performance of the sector. In



-6-
recognition of this, the Government is changing its sector development
approach as evidenced by recent moves to eliminate subsidies on key inputs
such as fertilizers and to increase prices of outputs and by changes in the
direction of investment to give greater emphasis to rainfed cultivation.
Recently, farmgate prices of key agricultural commodities have been increased
and are now virtually the same as international prices of comparable
commodities. Also, during the preparation and appraisal of the proposed
project the role of prices and interest rates in the resource allocation (and
mobilization) process has been discussed extensively. The Government fully
recognizes the importance of these issues and intends to conduct a study. The
Bank has reviewed with the Government the terms of reference for the study.
The Government intends to complete the study by June 30, 1984, and the results
and recommendations of the study would be sent to the Bank for review.
1.17.    Sector's Potential.  The potential for increasing agricultural
production in Syria is quite promising. Production can be increased by:
expanding areas under irrigation; raising the productivity of presently
irrigated lands; improving productivity in rainfed areas; expanding the
cultivated land in rainfed areas; and improving production of livetock and
poultry. These are elaborated below.
1.18.    The country has a good potential to expand irrigated agriculture
especially in the Euphrates Basin. However, because of difficulties being
encountered in the implementation of the on-going large scale irrigation
projects, the Government has indicated its intention in the medium term to
emphasize the completion of these on-going projects, and to focus on new
projects which combine low-cost groundwater and rainfed agricultural
development.
1.19.    The productivity of presently cultivated rainfed lands can be
improved through yield increases from better farm management practices such as
better timing and quality of seed bed preparation, fertilizer and pesticide
application, and weed control. Production can also be increased by raising
the intensity of cultivation through elimination of fallow in rainfall zone I
and reduction of fallow in Zone II combined with application of improved
cultural practice. With proper cultural practices, it would not be
unreasonable to expect yield increases of 50% or more for key field crops
grown under rainfed conditions.
1.20.    Intensified cultivation would require an increase in the level of
mechanization, which at present is low (there are at present about 27,500
tractors throughout Syria including about 3,250 in the proposed project
region). Plowing with animal power, especially when done under time pressure,
tends to be very shallow resulting in barely scratching the soil surface; it
is also more expensive than using machinery. Increasing the degree of
mechanization would allow a better control over the timing and quality of seed
bed preparation, and seeding when the moisture condition is favorable, and
would facilitate harvesting and other farm operations. Mechanical
applications of fertilizers and pesticides, and mechanical harvesting are also



- 7 -
becoming increasingly essential due to costly manual alternatives caused by
shortages of farm labor. The increase in the level of mechanization would
also require the provision of machinery repair and maintenance facilities, and
the training of machinery operators and mechanics, needs which are addressed
under the proposed development program (paras. 2.21 and 3.07-3.09).
1.21.    Improvements in productivity under rainfed cultivation are dependent
on sowing seeds and on applying fertilizers, herbicides, and pesticides at the
right time and in the correct amount. Seeds and fertilizers must be available
to farmers early in the season to allow for flexibility in time of seeding and
fertilizer application. The same can be said about herbicides and pesticides,
as control of weeds and pests is best achieved when application is done at the
proper time. In general, the farmers apply chemical fertilizers only
sporadically under rainfed cultivation because of their fear of loss in the
event of shortage of rainfall, although the benefits of chemical applications
can outweigh the possible losses from low rainfall. There is very little or
no loss under any rainfall circumstances of phosphorus application as this
chemical gets fixed in the soil and would be released gradually over the
years; it would be essential since the phosphorus resource of the Syrian soil
is low. The risk of nitrogen fertilizer applications can also be minimized by
staggering the applications with the initial dosage at the time of seeding and
the second dosage in early spring if rainfall conditions are favorable. For
this to be done successfully, however, effective campaign needs to be done
through the extension service. The livestock sub-sector, which complements
crop production, can also be improved through bettermanagement of health and
nutrition aspects which would help to stabilize the livestock population.
There is a large steppe area which is not suitable for crop production, but
which can be used for livestock grazing. The livestock subsector would not,
therefore, compete seriously with crop production for land.
1.22.    There is also a good potential to expand the production of fruit by
expanding the area unaer orchards, particularly in the higher elevations where
there is good supply of soil moisture. Such potential areas are usually not
utilized at present due to lack of funds and planting them with fruit trees
would not entail significant sacrificies in production of other agricultural
commodities. The Government intends to expand the areas under orchards under
its new Five Year Plan and the proposed development program would support this
effort.
1.23.    The above mentioned improvements would need to be supported by a
development policy which is responsive to the needs of the smallholder private
farmers who are the primary sources of agricultural production in Syria, and
by complementary increases of investment resources allocated to the sector.
The proposed development program would support the Government's intentions to
increase the flow of investment resources to the sector.



- 8 -
C. Agricultural Credit
1.24.    General.  The bulk of institutional finance for agriculture is
provided by the Cooperative Agricultural Bank (CAB). The Government's annual
plan for agriculture defines the targets for credit financing by CAB to meet
the prescribed plan of production. Farm cost data used in credit planning are
obtained by MAAR and the General Union of Peasants (GUP), who are important
members of the High Council for Agriculture in the office of the Prime
Minister for planning decisions. Each year the High Council issues a decree
specifying the maximum amounts and timing of production loans for inputs
available for each crop. The amounts are established as national averages for
irrigated and non-irrigated areas, with no consideration for variations
arising from local conditions.
1.25.    Policies and Procedures of Institutional Credit.  Decisions on
production and credit are implemented through MAAR, GUP (which controls the
cooperatives) and CAB. The terms of financing are also set at the national
level with no discretion by CAB.
1.26.    Private farmers have to be licensed by MAAR to obtain credit: from
official sources provided on subsidized terms. Members of cooperatives have
their requirements aggregated by the respective cooperatives, each of which
prepares an annual plan incorporating medium- and long-term loan requirements
of its members. Applications by private farmers for medium- and long-term
loans are checked out by local level committees (consisting of representatives
of MAAR, GUP and CAB) for land ownership, security or collateral and
compliance with the annual production plan. There is no project appraisal to
evaluate the investments' technical, financial, economical, and institutional
viability.
1.27.    Most of the cooperatives are multi-purpose service associations which
play an important intermediary role between farmers on the one hand and credit
and input/output organizations on the other. Their main responsibility is to
carry out the Government's agricultural plan. They guarantee repayments and
collect loans. Some cooperatives own tractors and machinery repair stations,
and have agriculturalists and accountants on their staff.
1.28.    The commonly prevailing interest rates, applicable for example to loans
for farm machinery, are 4% and 5.5% for cooperatives and private farmers (7.5%
to private farmers if the loan amount exceeds SL 60,000), respectively, while
the corresponding interest rates on loans for fruit tree development are 2% and
3% respectively for the first five years of the loans (and 4% to 5.5% for the
remaining period of repayment). The differentials (1% - 1.5%) provide a margin
to cooperatives for services provided. Interest rates on other agricultural
loans are similarly low, ranging up to 7.5% per annum. These are negative in
real terms. 1/ The Government is unwilling to consider changes in the interest
1/ The estimated rate of inflation in Syria in 1980 was 15%, and the Bank
projects inflation to be 11% in 1981, 9% in 1982, and 8% per year
thereafter. In the centrally planned economy of Syria, most major
investment decisions are taken administratively and interest rates play
limited role in the investment decision making process.



rates for on-lending under the proposed investment program. It nevertheless
recognizes the need to rationalize the interest rate structure but only after
careful study which it intends to undertake as discussed above (para. 1.16).
1.29.    Cooperative Agricultural Bank.  With its origin going back into the
iast century, CAB was established by legislative decree No. 141 of 1970 as a
wholly Government-owned "economic organization".  Like other such
organizations, CAB's board of directors is composed of its Director General
and seven of its senior officials.  The board has very limited authority, its
primary responsibility being the implementation of the Government's plan for
agricultural credit.  CAB is supervised and controlled by the Ministry of
Economy and International Trade.  It has close working relationships with MAAR
and GUP, who have a strong influence on its operations directly and through
the High Council for Agriculture. A large proportion of CAB's resources is
obtained by rediscounting with the Central Bank of Syria.
1.30.    There has been a rapid increase in the supply of credit to
agriculture in recent years as reflected in the growth of CAB's lending, which
increased from SL260 million (US$ 65.8 million) in 1975 to SL430 million
(US$108.9 million) in 1979.  Cooperatives received over 40% of CAB's loans in
1979 as against 32% in 1975.  The largest proportion of CAB's lending, usually
65% to 70% of the-total, is short-term loans for inputs and production.
Medium-term loans for five-year periods are made mainly for farm machinery
purchase, a category which has gained rapidly in volume during the past four
years. Long-term loans increased from just over SL 1 million (US$ 0.25
million) to SL 19 million (US$ 4.8 million) between 1975 and 1979.  CAB's
operations in the rainfed areas have been relatively small. In 1979, total
loans in the project area were SL 14 million (US$ 3.5 million).
i.31.    Terms and conditions of CAB's medium and long-term loans incorporate
cown payment requirements, currently up to 30% of total cost for most
operations; pre-aetermined fixed amortization periods, such as 5 years for
farm machinery and other mediumrterm loans; and stringent security
requirements. CAB is responsible for checking its borrowers' credit records,
evaluating security provided, and collecting loans . Its collection record
has been improving, with about 80% of due amounts collected in 1979 as
compared to 60% in 1970. The Government not only protects CAB from major
risks but from time to time also enacts special decrees waiving repayments of
short-term loans or rescheduling medium- and long-term loans, with
corresponding compensation to CAB.
1.32.    CAB has major non-credit functions, particularly storage and
distribution of major agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, on which it
receives sizable conmissions or income, exceeding the interest it earns on
loans. As of 1980, CAB had a network of 140 stores or warehouses and 61
branches spread over the country, including three each in the Deraa and Sweida
provinces. About 140 of its staff of 1,060 are at its headquarters in
Damascus; only about thirty among all of the staff are agriculturalists.
CAB's organization and the qualifications of its staff reflect the fact that
it is not a bank in the usual sense but a tightly controlled channel for
credit. A typical branch has eight departments including those dealing with
credit, stores and monitoring, with only four staff members in the credit
department, and usually only one or two agriculturalists and one accountant.



- 10 -
1.33.    The cost of CAB's resources is low.  The interest rate on Central
Bank rediscounting, a major source, is 2.75%, while budgetary funds
allocated to CAB carry no interest. CAB's overwhelming freedom from
risks has enabled it to obtain a good "margin" on its loans which,
together with its commercial earnings, has made it a very profitable
operation. In 1979, the latest year for which complete records were
available at the time of appraisal, its gross profits amounted to SL33.4
million (US$8.4 million) of which as much as SL24.6 million (US$6.2
million) were allocated to provisions for doubtful debts. As of the end
of 1979, total assets were about SL940 million (US$238 million) including
equity of SL187 million (US$47.3 million) and provisions exceeding SLI0O
million (US$25.3 million), as against a loan portfolio of SL477 million
(US$ 120.7 million).
1.34.    By law, CAB's accounts are audited by a department of the
Ministry of Finance. Its accounts are maintained manually and bookkeeping
is of an acceptable standard. Accounting follows generally accepted
principles with a few exceptions, such as those for bad debts and
provisions. Management accounting systems or controls are not in evidence.
D. Government's Development Strategy
1.35.    The Government's investment strategy in the agricultural sector
has been (and continues to be) based on two primary objectives: the
attainment of self-sufficiency in basic foods, and the promotion of
equitable income distribution. If the past sectoral growth trends
continue, however, Syria's objective for achieving self-sufficiency in
food is ambitious. During 1960-75, the annual growth rate of cereal
production averged about 1.4% 1/, which was lower than the rate of
population growth during the same period.
1.36.    The Government's overriding agricultural development objective
under the forthcoming 5th Five Year Plan would continue to be to increase
production of key agricultural commodities, combined with emphasis on
rural growth and development through investments in agro-industry, and in
rural transport, communication, electrification, and provision of potable
water supply. Unlike the past emphasis of investment in heavy irrigation
infrastructure, new projects to be financed would include development of
rainfed agriculture. The Government also intends to expand the Extension
Services Department of MAAR by having 600 extension centers (one for an
1/ Ibid, pp. 231-235



- II -
average of 12,000 ha) each center to be staffed and equipped sufficiently to
provide improved services to farmers. Each center, which would have about
four extensionists, would serve about 1,200 farm families. There would also
be emphasis on review of projects before consideration for financing. The
proposed development program for the southern region is one of the few new
investment programs specifically mentioned and budgeted for in the new Five
Year Plan.
E. Bank's Sector Development Approach
1.37.    The Bank's lending strategy is to finance selected projects which
have the most promising potential in helping the Government to attain its
objectives. To this end, the Bank has in the past approved loans to finance
four agricultural projects: two in the irrigation sub-sector (Balikh
Irrigation and Lower Euphrates Drainage Projects, Loan 975/Cr. 469-SYR and
Loan 1682-SYR respectively), and one each for Livestock Development (Loans
1311/1312T-SYR) and for Cotton Seed Oil Processing (Loan 1631-SYR). The
implementation of the Balikh Irrigation Project is being impeded by financial
(due to cost overruns) and technical (due to the prescence of gypsum)
problems, and by inadequate planning and management. The Bank is discussing
with the Government the latter's proposal to rephase the project. The loan
for the Cotton Seed Oil Processing Project has been terminated after several
extensions of effectiveness due to delays in recruitment of consultants.
After a slow start and an initial problem in procurement, progress in the
physical implementation of the Lower Euphrates Drainage Project is now
satisfactory. There were institutional problems in the early stages of the
execution of the Livestock Development Project which delayed the project's
initiation, but the rate of progress in the project's execution has improved
since then mainly due to the efforts of a dedicated project manager and the
appointment of full time staff to the project. The problems arose due to
shortages of manpower to administer the project as virtually all staff of MAAR
who were assigned to the project had other major responsibilities besides that
project and hence they were not able to devote full time to administer the
different project components in a coordinated manner. The lessons learned
from that experience have been considered in designing the organizational
aspects of the proposed investment program (paras. 3.02-3.09). Special
attention would be given to institutional aspects to avoid recurrence of past
problems due to organizational weaknesses in project planning and
implementation.
1.38.    The Bank supports the Government's effort to diversify its investment
from past emphasis in heavy irrigation infrastructure to include low cost
rainfed agriculture and smallscale irrigation projects. The proposed
development program is a reflection of that strategy. The Bank is also
planning to continue support for the livestock sector and for agricultural
development in the Lower Euphrates area. The proposed program is expected to
set the pattern for future integrated development of rainfed agriculture.



- 12 -
F. Program Formulation
1.39.    Program Origin.  The proposed development program was identified
after discussions with key Government officials within MAAR and the State
Planning Commission (SPC) and after consultations with farmers, community
leaders, and with extensionists and research scientists who had familiarity
with the agricultural problems and potentialities of the proposed development
sites in the two southern provinces of Deraa and Sweida, about 100 km south of
Damascus City (see Map, IBRD 15752). These provinces account for about 5% and
nearly 10% of the total and rural population respectively, and for about 8% of
the cultivable land. The entire region is bound by the provinces of Damascus
in the north and east, the Golan Heights in the west, and Jordan in the
south. The community leaders, heads of cooperatives, and some individual
farmers have been consulted in formulating the program, and there would be
flexibility in the design to continue to incorporate the views of the
beneficiaries during the course of the implementation. The Government is
interested in the views of the farmers, and the farmers have the forum to make
their views known collectively through their cooperative unions.
1.40.    Rational for the Program's Selection.  The development sites were
selected on the recognition of the good potential for rainfed agricultural
development (and fruit tree growing) in the region and because of the
Government's desire to promote equitable distribution of investment resources
among regions. In the-past, major agricultural projects were located in the
north and northwestern parts of the country while relatively little public
investment was made in the south. The soils in Deraa and Sweida are generally
good, and there is adequate rainfall over a large area to make investments
attractive.
1.41.    Tne climate in the region is generally similar to the rest of the
country. Based on fifteen years of data, the mean annual rainfall ranges from
about 280 mm to 650 mm, with about 95% falling during the critical growing
cycle (November-April). The mean annual temperature is 15.70 C varying from
9.3 C to 22.30 C. Most of the area is flat with scattered hills. Rainfall
and temperatures vary according to these topographic features. Many areas are
covered with rocks (mostly superficial) which resulted from volcanic actions
in the past. The. rainfall and temperature data are summarized in Annex 1,
Tables T-1 and T-2 respectively. The soils are reddish to dark brown
calcareous, clayey to clayey loam, and low in organic matter. Soil depths are
variable, generally from 25-100 cm in zone I and exceeding 100 cm in Zone II.
These soils are suitable for the crops to be grown under the proposed program
(para. 4.02) but since they are deficient in available nitrogen and
phospherous, amendments of these elements would be required and would be
done. In the higher elevation climate and soil conditions are very suitable
for tree crop production.
1.42.    Virtually all agricultural lands are privately owned.  Holding sizes
vary between 10 ha and 20 ha depending on the productive potential of the
land, but most families own about 10 - 12 ha each sub-divided in about 7
parcels. Land use patterns are basically the same as for the rest of the



- 13 -
country, except that average yields and the degree of farm mechanization tend
to be lower. The farmers in the area are among the poorest of the rural
population. Family size is about the same as elsewhere in the country,
averaging about 5.9 persons, but emigration of the labor force from the area
is high resulting in severe shortage (and high cost) of farm labor
particularly during the peak cropping periods.
1.43.    The rural infrastructure in the provinces is poorly developed.  About
40% of the rural population in Deraa and 70% in Sweida have no adequate source
of drinking water; there is, however, a major rural water supply project
uncerway financea by the Government to alleviate this problem. There are
highways and rail lines connecting the provinces with other parts of the
country, but the rural road network is poor thus making some areas
non-traficable for vehicles particularly during wet periods.
1.44.    The country has a good but limited potential for expanding the area
under irrigation. While investments in irrigated agriculture will continue,
the potential for developing rainfed agriculture,  which has not received
adequate attention in the past, is being given priority. A start is being
made to invest in the neglected subsector for several reasons: (a) because of
tne limited supply of irrigation water, rainfed agriculture would continue to
be the primary source of agricultural production and income for the majority
of the rural population in the foreseeable future and hence the growth and
development of the sector would be crucially dependent on the corresponding
improvement in the productivity of rainfed agriculture, (b) there is a good
potential for improving productivity of rainfed agriculture at low cost by
improving the cultural practices of production, (c) the benefits from rainfed
agricultural projects would accrue to a large number of beneficiaries at
relatively low cost per family compared to irrigation projects, especially for
field crop areas, (d) it is advisable to utilize fully and efficiently the
existing irrigation infrastructure on a priority basis rather than to invest
in new and large scale irrigation projects and, (e) development of livetock
subsector is greatly influenced by rainfed agriculture due to the strong
forward linkage effect of the latter subsector on the former.  The proposed
investment strategy is influenced by these technical, economic, and social
considerations.



- 14 -
II. THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM AND PROJECT
A. Introduction
2.01.    The proposed project (para. 2.29) would be a four-year time-slice of
an eight-year agricultural development program for the two southern provinces
of Deraa and Sweida. The program, which would be carried out during 1982-89,
would develop a target area of about 101,000 ha out of a total cultivable land
of about 400,000 ha.
B. Program and Project Objectives
2.02.    The main objectives of the development program (and the Project) are
to increase production of key agricultural commodities under rainfed
conditions, and consequently to: raise income and standard of living of the
beneficiaries, help the country in moving towards self sufficiency in basic
foods and hence in saving foreign exchange, arrest emigration from the rural
areas to reduce the adverse effect on urban employment and claims on public
services of the growing rural-urban migration, and in general to promote the
productivity of the rural population. It would support the Government's
changing agricultural development strategy from past emphasis on investment in
heavy irrigation and arainage infrastructure to include development of rainfed
agriculture. It would also attempt to build the institutional framework
essential for sustained agricultural development by strengthening the
extension service, and by setting up an organization for implementation which
could be a model for future projects. The program is designed to respond to
the key issues of agricultural development as discussed above (paras.
1.06-i.16).
C. The Development Program
2.03.    The proposed development program would comprise the following
components:
(a) field crop development (covering about 94,000 ha (gross)) which
would consist of provision of farm machinery to increase the
level of mechanization and to increase the cropped area by
reducing fallow, derocking of land which is presently
unaerutilized; and improvement in cultural practices of
production of mainly cereals and legumes;
(b) fruit tree development covering about 7,000 ha which would
include derocking, levelling, minor terracing, planting,
provision of farm machinery for tillage, and establishment of
orchards through the first year of production;
(c) construction of farm access roads to serve the proposed
development area;
(d) strengthening of the extension service to support the proposed
fruit tree and field crop development programs;



- 15 -
(e) technical assistance; and
(f) building and strengthening the organization for implementing the
proposed program, including the establishment of Project
Coordination Units in Damascus, and Implementation Units in
Deraa and Sweida.
The program interventions would involve a transfer of known technology and
existing know-how, and would consist of the proper packaging of improved
agricultural practices combined with provision of farm machinery, seeds,
fertilizers, and pesticides to fit the requirements for rainfed agricultural
development of the region, and the provision of financial and institutional
support to adopt this know-how. Detailed features of the program are
discussed below.
2.04.    Field Crop Development Program.  About 68,000 ha of the proposed
development area would be located in the province of Deraa and the remaining
26,000 ha would be in Sweida. The entire area would be in rainfall zones I
(66%) and II (34%).
2.05.    About 21,000 ha located in rainfall zone I have rocks which occupy
valuable lands and which make manual farm operations difficult and mechanical
operations impossible. The portion of land occupied by the rocks (typically
25cm-1 meter in diameter) varies from 10-15% on about 14,200 ha to 16-25% on
about 6,800 ha. Equipment would be provided for removing these rocks, thus
increasing the effective area of productive land (and yields) in addition to
facilitating mechanized farm operations and reducing the cost of production.
The rocks removed would be placed systematically in rows at the edges of
farms, ana so they would not serve as barriers to farm operations. Over the
years, farmers have been removing manually the smaller stones but with the
emerging severe shortages of labor and the larger sizes of the rocks, it would
be extremely difficult, time consuming, and impractical to continue to attempt
removing them manually.
2.06.    A large proportion of productive land is traditionally left fallow
every year although research results have shown the feasibility of eliminating
fallow in zone I and reducing it in zone II without adverse impact on
production. Recent statistics show that about 10% of the proposed area in
zone I and 25% in zone II are left fallow every year. Fallow would be
eliminated from areas located in the first zone to increase the cultivated
land by about 6,180 ha. Fallow would also be reduced from the second zone by
about 6,290 ha thus increasing the cultivated land by the same amount. There
would still be about 2,250 ha of fallow but these would be located close to
the zone III areas and hence it would not be economically attractive to
attempt to reduce or eliminate them.
2.07.    Concerning other improvements in cultural practices of production,
assistance would be extended to the farmers on optimal use of chemical
fertilizers, better and timely seedbed preparation, seeding techniques, and
weed and pest controls. The proposed program would include funds to finance



- 16 -
the cost of additional inputs required on the field crop area for an
equivalent of one cropping season. Program analysis assumes the same
varieties of seeds would be used through the medium term. The present variety
of wheat (improved Haurani) is the result of many years of breeding research
in Syria. As to the other crops, the farmers are still using traditional
varieties, but breeding research continues with the objectives of producing
improved varieties. Normally this is a long process, but it is quite possible
that improved varieties could become available to the farmers during the life
of the proposed development program.
2.08.    At present, very few progressive farmers in the program area apply
chemical fertilizers under rainfed farming. Moreover, general acceptance of
chemical fertilizers is limited due to the farmers' reluctance to take risk of
loss in case of poor rainfall. Extension services would be re-organized,
expanaed, and strengthened to provide advice to the farmers on proper dressing
of fertilizers and the timing for their application to minimize risk in case
of poor rainfall. Phosphorus would be applied during seeding for all crops.
As nitrogenous fertilizers are normally leachable, a split application (half
at seeding and half at tillering) is recommended for winter cereals which
would allow for better response in years of average or better rainfall. When
the rainfall condition is poor, the second application can be eliminated as it
would have no production advantage. For the remaining crops, there would be a
one time application of nitrogen at seeding. The recommended quantities of
fertilizer application under normal rainfall conditions, which are based on
research results in the project area, are contained in the Project File.
2.09.    Seedbed preparation is at present limited to one plowing before
seeding which is generally done after the first rain, and another plowing
immediately after seeding to cover broadcast seeds. Many farmers tend to
eliminate the first plowing and only plow after seed broadcasting. This
approach results in less water conservation, inadequate seed germination due
to rough seedbed, and weed infestation, and poor stand. The program would
promote primary tillage which would be done before the first rain allowing
better water infiltration, and two secondary tillages just prior to seeding.
These practices would result in smooth and weed-free seedbed and also better
stand and yield.
2.10.    Seeding is presently done manually resulting in uneven distribution
of seeds. Seedbed preparations as well as seed coverings are done using
animal or tractor power. Seeding is also done late which often results in
inefficient utilization of the limited rainfall. Some progressive farmers
seed early but the practice is not widespread because of insufficient number
of machinery to control the time of seedbed preparation and seeding. This
problem would be alleviated by providing machinery with the appropriate
attachments. Mechanical seeding would be applied for all major crops, except
for sesame and watermelon where seeding would continue to be done manually as
the small area under these crops would not justify the purchase of special
planters required for this purpose. There would be no change in the rates of
seeding, except for chickpeas where there would be a slight increase.



- 17 -
2.11.    Hany fields are often infested with weeds because of inadequate
seedbed preparation and poor weed control practices. Weeds compete with crops
for moisture, nutrients and space. Control of weeds at the proper time would
result in more water availability for the crop and better response to
fertilizer, all of which would improve yields. These problems would be
alleviated through improved seedbed preparation and applications of chemicals
(2,4-D) in early spring. For less infested fields of cereals, and infested
fields of legume, and other crops where selective herbicides are not
available, hand weeding would continue to be done but the extension service
would recommend it to be done earlier than is practiced at present in order to
minimize the damage.
2.12.    Concerning pest control, the most common pests are armyworms and
aphids, the former attacking chickpeas and the latter attacking watermelons.
These pests are not controlled sufficiently due to lack of\timely availability
of insecticides, and shortages of sprayers to apply them. Funds would be
proviaed to buy insecticides and sprayers.
2.13.    Funds would also be provided to purchase farm machinery and the
necessary attachments to increase the level of mechanization. About 50
combine harvesters would be provided to alleviate present shortages (there are
many combines in use at present throughout the country but there are shortages
particularly in the southern part), and these would handle an additional
25,000 ha of cereals. -As at present, these machinery would be owned privately
and/or by farmers' cooperatives who would get credit to purchase them, and
would then provide machinery services to other farmers on custom basis. The
increase in the level of mechanization would alleviate the severe shortage of
farm labor in the area (by reducing demand for labor), reduce annual cost of
production per ha, and improve yields through better and timely seedbed
preparation, soil and water conservation, and weed control.
2.14.    Fruit Tree Development Program.  The southern region is one of the
best in the country for fruit growing, and many farmers are already active in
the fruit growing business. Rapid development of fruit production has,
however, been constrained by shortages of investment resources. To accelerate
orchard development, about 3,400 ha in Sweida and 3,600 ha in Deraa provinces
of unutilized hilly lands in rainfall zone I would be developed for fruit tree
production. In Deraa, where mean winter temperatures are mild (7-100C),
olives, almonds, and grapes would be the major fruit trees. In Sweida, the
orchards would be on high elevations with cooler winter mean temperatures
(2-50C); apples, pears, cherries, and grapes would be the principal fruit
trees. Funds would be provided for the establishment of the orchards and for
financing inputs required for their proper maintenance through the first year
of production. Equipment would be provided for land development (derocking,
levelling, terracing), as well as farm machinery for cultivation. Derocking
woulc  be essential to provide for better root and water penetration, all of
which would improve yield. Levelling and terracing, which would be done for
slopes exceeding 10%, would be essential to control erosion, enhance
mechanical operations, and consequently for proper maintenance of the orchards.



- 18 -
2.15.    The seedlings required (about 1.8 million pieces over 5 years) would
be supplied from Government and privately owned nurseries, which have adequate
capacities to supply the requirements without adversely affecting other
pLanned fruit tree development programs elsewhere in the country. The
planting techniques are known in Syria and the proposed mix of fruit trees are
well adopted to the orchard sites which have already been selected. The
extension service would advise the farmers on the proper cultural practices of
maintenance, production, and marketing.
2.16.    Farm Access Roads.  About 56 km of third-class asphalt and 59 km of
gravel roads, and 70 km of dirt tracks would be constructed to serve the fruit
tree and field crop areas as the existing road network is not adequate. The
asphalt roads would be typically 7 m wide including shoulders, and they would
serve the hilly fruit tree areas where gravel roads would not be suitable as
these would be subject to frequent erosion and would be difficult for vehicles
to go uphill, particularly during wet periods. The gravel roads and the dirt
tracks would expand the existing network of farm roads in the proposed field
crop areas. Some would connect the farms with villages while others would be
used to open up inaccessible locations particularly in the areas which would
be derocked. The cost of all the roads would be equivalent to about US$ 70
per ha or nearly US$ 100 per beneficiary.
2.17.    Extension Development.  The proposed development program would
support the Government's efforts to build a strong extension service by
setting up 17 extension centers which would serve exclusively farmers in the
arfected area. Nine of these centers would be located in Deraa province and
the remaining eight would be in Sweida province. Funds would be provided for
constructing buildings, and for staffing (through the implementation phase)
and equipping the centers. Each center would constitute a team of six
extension staff (3 agricultural engineers one of whom would head the center,
and 3 extension agents) for a total of 102 extension staff, and would be
equipped with the necessary vehicles and motor cycles, audio-visual equipment,
ana field demonstration tools and inputs to provide active extension programs
to an average of about 235 farm families per extension agent. The
agricultural engineers would assume a larger role in the implementation of
field demonstrations, field days, and farmers meetings, and a lesser role in
the day to day contact with farmers. The subject matter specialists (SMS)
would be callea upon, as needed, from the various departments (horticulture,
field crops, plant protection, etc.) of the provincial directorates of
agriculture. Transportation of SMS to farmers' fields would be provided by
the extension implementation units (para. 3.06). Recruitment, which is not
expected to be a problem, would be done from among the existing staff of MAAR
and from graduates of agricultural schools and universities in the country.
The programs would emphasize improved agricultural practices to be recommended
under the program. The center-farm family ratio, which is higher than the
national average, is appropriate in view of the dispersed nature of farms, the
difficult terrain, the intensity of extension activities, and the size of the
proposed investment. Funds would also be provided for local training of
extension staff and for on-site training of farmers. This would be done on a
continuous basis by a core of trained extension agents (FAO is presently



- 19 -
providing training to about 75 MAAR staff per year in extension methodology
and the program under which this training is provided is being extended with
larger number of trainees) supported by other specialized staff of MAAR. The
proposed extension organization would imply a significant expansion and
strengthening of the existing extension organization which provided limited
services given by few insufficiently trained technicians who bad also other
responsibilities besides extension.
2.18.    Tecnnical Assistance.  Technical assistance would be provided to:
help strengthen the extension service, train personnel in project evaluation
techniques; train tractor drivers, combine operators, and mechanics; and help
in setting up a system for monitoring and evaluating the proposed development
program.
2.19.    As the approach to organized extension such as the one described
above is new to Syria, about 90 man-months of external training would be
provided for key extension personnel with special emphasis in monitoring and
evaluation. The system would be subject to continuous evaluation so that the
experiences to be gained could be used in the design of a system (or systems)
which would be responsive to the changing needs of agriculture in the
country. Also, about 24 man-months of consultant services would be provided,
at a cost of about US$ 8,300 per man-month, for training key personnel in the
techniques of project identification, preparation, appraisal, and supervision,
and to assist in lending operations under the direct overall responsibility of
MAAR.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would
employ consultants for this purpose on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank not later than April 30, 1983 (para. 5.01(a)).
2.20.    There is a substantial scope for improving the approach for
monitoring ano evaluation of projects, and to use this in the planning
process. The MAAR, through its Directorate of Planning and Statistics,
attempts to "monitor and evaluate" projects but this function is limited to
keeping records of costs and expenditures, in addition to areas and locations
of projects. Even these data are not kept in desired details for individual
projects. The Ministry, however, recognizes the value of monitoring the
progress of each project in particular to determine factors that influence
setbacks and successes to be used for planning other projects, and also to
evaluate the performance of each project in attaining the intended objectives
beyond the physical completion of each project. To strengthen the Ministry's
capability for overall monitoring and evaluation of its development programs,
about 84 man-months of consultant services would be provided, at a cost of
about US$ 8,300 per man-month, which would also be used to set up a system for
monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the proposed development program
and its impact; the number of man-months of consultant services is determined
following consultations with the Government. This would supplement the above
mentioned training of extension staff in the methodology and use of monitoring
and evaluation techniques. This is an important part of the proposed
technical assistance program especially since the lessons to be learnt from
the development program are expected to be important feedbacks for planning



- 20 -
other rainfed development programs and projects. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the above mentioned consultants would be employed not
later than April 30, 1983 on terms and conditions which would be satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 5.01(b)). Assurances were also obtained that the Borrower
would develop a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system for the
proposed development program and submit the same to the Bank for comments by
March 31, 1983 and thereafter implement the agreed procedures (para. 5.01(c)).
2.21.    There is a serious shortage of tractor drivers and mechanics
throughout Syria and in particular in the southern region. To alleviate this
problem, the project includes a training component for tractor drivers,
mechanics, combine operators, and machinery managers (extension personnel)
with different courses for each of the four groups. This would satisfy the
development program's requirements when combined with existing personnel,
taking into account the number of trained persons who might leave in search of
better income opportunities elsewhere. As an under-utilized agricultural
school is already available in Deraa, that school would be used for training
purposes. An expatriate who has already set up a similar and successful
training program in the northern part of the country financed by UNDP would
also organize the proposed training program for the southern region. About 8
engineers are already under training in Aleppo and these would be the key
local teaching personnel under the proposed program. The trainees would be
drawn mainly from among members of cooperatives and private farmers who own
farms in the project area, and from staff of MMAR including extension
personnel. Details on course content, and duration, training cycle, number of
local teaching staff and other aspects are contained in the Project File.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would, by December 31, 1982 set
up the training program ii the province of Deraa in consultation with the Bank
(para. 5.01(d)).
2.22.    Program Administration.  Funds would be provided for setting up an
organization for program implementation including procurement of vehicles,
equipping the Program Coordination Units in Damascus, and Program
Implementation Units in Deraa and Sweida (paras. 3.05 and 3.06).
D . Phasing of the gevelopment Program
2.23.    The above development program would be implemented in two phases:
(i)  Phase I would consist of sections (d) - (f) of para. 2.03 above,
field crop development on about 25,400 (27% of program area
under field crops) orchard establishment on about 4,600 ha
(66%), and construction of farm access roads to serve these
areas. Thus, the institutional aspects of the program would be
built-up during this phase to pave the way for smooth and
accelerated implementation of the development program during the
second phase. Phase I would be the "project" to be financed
under the proposed Bank Loan combined with contributions by IFAD
and UNDP (paras. 2.32-2.35). It would be implemented during
1982-85; and



- 21 -
(ii) Phase II would cover the period 1986-89 and would consist of
expansion of the field crop development program by 68,600 ha
(73% of the target area), orchard development by 2,400 ha (34%
of target), construction of additional farm access roads, and
recurrent costs of program administration and extension
services. Based on the strengths of the institutions and on the
lessons to be learnt under the first phase, the scope of the
second phase could be modified.
2.24.    The projected distribution of the target areas by years and phases is
shown below:
Program Phase                            Area Under Program
and Year          Derocked Field   Other Field    Fruit Tree         Total
Crop Areas      Crop Areas         Areas
------------------------- (ha) ---------------------
Phase I:
1982                      -             700              -          700
1983                 3,000           1,300           1,000        5,300
1984                 5,350           3,300           1,800       10,400
1985                 5,350           6,400           1,800       13,550
Sub-Total        13,700          11,700          4,600       30,000
Phase II:
1986                 5,350          11,400           1,800       18,550
i987                 1,950          16,550             600       19,100
1988                     -          18,050               -       18,050
1989                     -          15,300               -       15,300
Sub-Total         7,300          61,300          2,400       71,000
Grand Total      21,000          73,000           7,000      101,000
2.25.    The preparatory work for implementing the development program is
uncer way: key project personnel have been appointed; draft technical
specifications for equipment have been prepared; construction of buildings for
the extension centers (all are expected to be completed by the end of 1982) is
in progress; and the training of farm machinery operators and mechanics has
already started.  The Government is prepared to finance costs incurred prior
to loan signatures for these purpose on its own.
2.26.    Field crop aevelopment in areas that do not require derocking is
expected to start in 1982 on about 700 ha. The derocking operations and
planting of fruit trees would commence in 1983 on about 15% of the affected
areas, with the rates of development increasing gradually commensurate with
the capabilities of the implementing agencies, and with the farmers' projected
participation in the program. The extension service would play key roles in
contacting and training farmers to induce them to participate in the program.
The campaign has already started using existing personnel of MAAR and will
continue throughout the implementation phase.  To complement this effort,
about 102 extensionists for the seventeen extension centers are expected to be
recruited by the end of 1982.



- 22 -
2.27.    The phasings of derocking and fruit tree planting programs, which
would be done under the direct control of MAAR, are based on expected delivery
time of the equipment and the supply of seedlings, and in accordance with the
expected build-up in the capability of the Ministry to undertake these
responsibilities. The farmers who own such areas have already been contacted
and have agreed in principle to the derocking (and planting) of their land.
If these farmers agree to such relatively expensive operations, it is assumed
that they would also agree to make the complementary investments by adopting
the recommended technological packages without delay so as to get the full
advantages of derocking. Also, farmers who have already been contacted by the
existing extension service and who already apply improved technologies on a
limited scale in field crop areas that do not require derocking are expected
to be among the first to participate in the development program; this would
cover about 3,600 ha. The phasing of the rest of the field crop development
program (69,400 ha) is based on the expected development of the new extension
service and on the responsiveness of the farmers to the proposed improvement
program. As the financial rates of returns on the investments are projected
to be higher in Zone I compared to Zone II (see Project File), the proportion
of farmers who have been contacted by the extension service and who adopt the
recommended packages is assumed to be higher in the former zone. In both
cases, the early adopters are expected to adopt the recommended technologies
after two years of intensive exposures (farm visits, field demonstrations,
field days, farmers' meetings, mass media, etc.), and the late adopters are
expected to adopt after five years of intensive exposures and trials on their
own plots. These rates of adoptions are supported by evidence gathered from
elsewhere in Syria where experiments were conducted on exposures/adoptions of
new technologies. 1/ Even among the adopters, it is assumed that farmers
would take time to accept the entire recommended technological packages
beginning with the most familiar of the technologies (eg. tractors) and
increasing progressively towards the riskiest and less familiar of the
packages (eg. chemical fertilizers). The details on the projected number of
contacts, adoptions, and areas covered are shown in Annex 1, Tables T-3 and
T-4.
E. Cost of the Development Program
2.28.    The total cost of the development program is estimated at about SL
573.4 million (US$145.2 million) with a foreign exchange component of US$ 67.4
million or 46%. Details on the cost estimate and on the projected schedule of
expenditures are shown in Annex 1, Table T-5. The base cost estimate is based
on actual costs of various equipment and other requirements at the time of
appraisal projected to the levels expected to prevail towards the end of
1981. Physical contingencies have been computed at 15% on construction of
1/ Experiences in northern Syria under Zone I, whose agriculture is more
developed than in the south, show that the early adopters (20%) adopted
new technologies after two years of intensive exposure, the average group
(65%) adopted after three years, and the slow and extremely risk averse
group (15%) adopted after four years.



- 23 -
farm access roads due to the dispersed nature of these roads throughout the
development program area with its varying topographic features. Allowances
for expectea price increases on the local cost component are based on
projectea rates of domestic inflation (9% in 1982 and 8% per year
thereafter). The allowances for the foreign component amount to 8% in 1982,
7% per year during 1983-1985, and 6% per annum thereafter. The cost estimates
do not include taxes and duties as the development program would be exempted
from such charges.
F. The Project: Time-Slicing Concept
2.29.    Description.  The project to be financed under the proposed loan
would be Phase I of the development program as outlined above (para. 2.03).
It woula consist of (a) field crop and fruit tree development on a total area
of about 30,000 ha and construction of associated farm road network, (b)
investment in building the extension service and the organization for the
project's administration, and (c) all the technical assistance component.l/
The following items would be included in the project: derocking equipment;
farm machinery; vehicles and other equipment for the extension service and for
project administration; various inputs required for the above area through the
end of the project; training of extensionists, tractor drivers, combine
operators, and mechanics; costs of the extension service and project
administration through the completion of the project; and consultant services
for monitoring and evaluation and for training. Since the quantity of
derocking equipment is determined on the basis of the maximum area to be
derockea in any given year and since this maximum area falls within the
proposed project period, the derocking equipment required for the entire area
to be derocked under the development program (28,000 ha) would be financed
under the proposed project. The farm machinery to be provided for the fruit
tree establishment would be determined on the basis of the area to be included
in the project. For field crop aevelopment, however, the farm machinery
needed for the first year of Phase II, which is the most important part of the
recommended technological package and which plays a pivotal role in the
adoption of the full technological package, would be financed under the
project to ensure continuity of the development program. However, no
disbursements would be made against the farm machinery for the second phase
until, based on a joint review by the Government and the Bank of the progress
of development under Phase I, the Bank is satisfied with the justification of
continuation of development under Phase II, and the Government has conveyed to
the Bank its intention to complete the development program as planned (para.
5.02). The list of equipment is shown in Annex 1, Table T-6.
2.30.    Implementation Schedule.  The physical implementation of the
derocking operations to be done under the project, along with the field crop
areas where the recommended technological packages are projected to be adopted
and the areas where the orchards would be established are shown in para. 2.24
above. The timetable for key project activities is summarized in Chart World
Bank 22879.
1/       The detailed featues of the project are the same as for the entire
development program except that the area coverage is smaller.



- 24 -
2.31.    Cost Estimate.  The total cost of the proposed project, including physical
contingencies and allowances for expected price increases (para. 2.28) is estimated
at about SL 301.5 million (US$ 76.3 million) with a foreign exchange component of US$
42.2 million or 55%. The cost estimates and schedule of expenditures are summarized
below and are detailed in Annex 1, Table T-7.
Project Cost Estimates 1/
Item                         SL Million               US$ Million          % of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
Exchange
Field Crop Development
Derocking                         5.2    11.6    16.8    1.3       2.9      4.2      69
Farm  ahchinery                  1.8    37.5    39.3    0.5        9.5    10.0      95
Farm Mhchinery Oerating Cost  7.0         0.6      7.6    1.9      0.2      2.1      9
Inputs (fertilizers, etc.)       5.2      2.1      7.3    1.3      0.5      1.8     28
Access Roads                     2.9      3.0      5.9    0.7      0.8      1.5     53
Sub-total                  22.1    54.8    76.9    5.7    13.9    19.6         71
Fruit Tree Development
Land Development                20.7    62.0    82.7    5.2    15.7    20.9         75
Establishment Cost              14.9      1.9    16.8    3.8       0.5      4.3      12
Farm Mhchinery                   0.5      8.6      9.1    0.1      2.2      2.3     95
Access Roads                    13.5      5.8    19.3    3.4       1.5      4.9     31
Sub-total                  49.6    78.3   127.9   12.5    19.9    32.4         61
Extension Development             16.9      4.1    21.0    4.3       1.0      5.3      19
Technical Assistance
Extension Training           *  0.2       0.9      1.1    -        0.2      0.2    100
Training of Tractor Drivers
and Mechanics              4.6     4.9      9.5    1.2       1.2     2.4      50
Consultant Services              1.2      2.4      3.6    0.3      0.6      0.9     67
Sub-total                   6.0     8.2    14.2    1.5       2.0      3.5      57
Project Administration            14.7      4.3    19.0    3.7       1.1      4.8     23
Base Cost                 109.3   149.7   259.0   27.7    37.9    65.6         58
Contingencies
Physical                         2.4      1.2      3.6    0.6      0.3      0.9     33
Expected Price Increases        23.1    15.8    38.9    5.8        4.0      9.8     41
Sub-total                  25.5    17.0    42.5    6.4       4.3    10.7       40
Total Project Cost        134.8   166.7   301.5   34.1    42.2    76.3         55
1/  Items may not add up exactly to totals due to rounding.  See Annex 1, Table T-7.
The project is exempt from payment of import duties and local taxes, and the cost
estimates exclude them.



- 25 -
2.32.    Financing.  A Bank loan of US$22 million is proposed, which would
finance about 52% of the estimated foreign exchange component of the project.
The balance of the foreign exchange cost would be financed by IFAD, and UNDP.
IFAD would contribute about US$18 million (43% of foreign component). The
Government intends to arrange the financing of the foreign exchange cost of
the technical assistance component (US$2.2 million or about 5%) through grant
from UNDP. The Government has confirmed UNDP's willingness to finance the
technical assistance component from the Third Cycle of Technical Assistance of
the UNDP. The co-financing arrangement would substantially reduce the average
cost of external borrowing.
2.33.    The balance of the project's cost, representing the local component,
would be financed by the Government and farmers (US$24.7 million) and by CAB
(US$9.4 million). The Government has made budgetary provisions under its 5th
Five Year Plan to cover its estimated share of the financing requirements.
2.34.    IFAD has chosen joint financing with the Bank without restricting the
use of its funds against disbursements for any of the project's components
financed by the Bank. Therefore, the disbursements against eligible items
(excluding the technical assistance component) would be apportioned between
IBRD and IFAD in a ratio of 55% for IBRD and 45% for IFAD based on their
contributions.
2.35.    Based on the above financing arrangements, the project's financing
plan is summarized below:
Financing Plan      _     _
Item             IBRD   IFAD   UMNP  Government           CAB   Total
---------------…-:-(US$ million)-----------------
Field Crop Development   8.9    7.3    -            2.7           4.5   23.4
Fruit Tree Development  11.9    9.7    -           10.7           4.9   37.2
Extension                  0.6    0.5    -          5.0           -       6.1
Technical Assistance      -       -       2.2       1.8           -       4.0
Project Administration   0.6    0.5    -            4.5           -       5.6
Total                    22.0   18.0    2.2        24.7          9.4    76.3
As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan, the Government
would be required to submit to the Bank satisfactory evidence that the
execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of the IFAD Loan Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action and
all other conditions precedent to effectiveness of the said loan have been
fulfilled (para. 5.03).
1/       Including contingencies.  Government's share includes contributions
by the beneficiaries.



- 26 -
2.36.    Procurement.  Equipment required for land development including
derocking in both field crop and fruit tree areas (US$ 19.0 million
including contingencies), farm machinery for both field crops and orchards
(US$ 13.9 million including contingencies), and equipment for extension and
for project administration (USg 0.9 million),±' for a total of about US$
33.8 million or an equivalent of nearly 85% of the proposed financing by
IBRD and IFAD, would be procured by MAAR following international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The necessary
amount of spare parts (about 20%) would be procured together with the
equipment. In addition, the successful bidders for the supply of equipment
would be required to arrange for the stockpiling and distribution of spares
needed during the life of the equipment; the spares would be stored and
distributed by MAAR. Local manufacturers of equipment would be allowed a
15% preference margin or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less. To
the extent possible, contracts for such equipment would be grouped into
single bid packages of at least US$500,000 equivalent. Equipment which
cannot be suitably bulked for ICB procurement (contracts valued up to US$
100,000 equivalent) would be procured through competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank up to an
aggregate amount of US$1.5 million. Civil works contracts for construction
of farm access roads would also be awarded following competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
All bid documents would be prepared under the responsibility of MAAR in
collaboration with other agencies which have had experiences in preparing
and processing similar bid packages. All other items included in the
project cost estimate would be procured following local procedures; Bank
funds would not be disbursed against such items.
2.37.    For all contracts costing more than SLI.2 million (US$300,000),
before bids are invited, MAAR would to furnish to the Bank, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with the description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders. Two conformed
copies of each contract will be submitted to the Bank after award and prior
to submittal of first application for withdrawl of funds from the loan
account with respect to each contract. For contracts costing less than
SLl.2 million (US$300,000), the Borrower would cause MAAR to furnish to the
Bank the bid evaluation report with two conformed copies of each contract
prior to submittal of application for disbursement from the loan account.
1/    Values exclude small local components.



- 27 -
2.38.    Disbursement.  The proposed Bank loan of US$22 million, and IFAD's
contribution of USi18 million would be disbursed as follows:
Category                           % of Expenditures to be Financed
(a) (i) Equipment for land development and    -100% of foreign expenditures
spares (US$19.0 million), and (ii) vehicles
and spares for extension and project
administration (US$0.9 million)
(b) Farm machinery and spares                    100% of foreign expenditures or
(i) Phase I (US$ 9.2 million)                100% of local ex-factory cost
(ii) Phase II (US$ 4.7 million)
(c) Civil works contracts, excluding             65% of contract values
buildings (US$5.0 million)l/
(d) Unallocated (US$1.2 million).
Disbursements would be made following receipt of standard documentation. An
estimated schedule of disbursements of the Bank loan is summarized below and
detailed in Annex 1, Table T-8.
IB RD FY
Disbursements           83         84        85         86
Annual                 8.4       4.4         1.7       7.5
Cumulative             8.4      12.8        14.5      22.0
The above estimates are based on the projected phasing of the project's
execution, the estimated volume and timing of delivery of the various
equipment, and on the rate of construction of farm access roads. The
disbursements in the first two years are based on the delivery of the
derocking equipment and farm machinery during those years. The jump in
disbursement in 1986 is due to the projected delivery of farm machinery in
that year for field crop development in the first year of Phase II (1986).
Since nearly 85% of the disbursements would be made against the procurement of
equipment, disbursements under this project are expected to proceed at a
faster pace compared to the on-going projects. The disbursement profile for
the entire region's Agricultural Sector and for all projects in Syria shows
1/       Expected to be mainly farm access roads.



- 28 -
aisbursement extending over 8 years, which corresponds to the disbursement
period for the entire development program. The disbursement profile for the
project is 4 years because of the projected heavy disbursement against
equipment.
2.39.    Environmental Impact.  The project would have no significant adverse
impact on the environment.  The establishment of orchards on bare and rocky
lands would reduce soil erosion and help in conserving moisture. Care would
be taken by the extension service to avoid serious negative effect from use of
plant protection chemicals. Their transportation and use, and the disposal of
empty containers would be done under guidance from the extension service
also. This would be monitored carefully during the course of project
implementation.



- 29 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION 1/
A. The Borrower and Implementing Agencies
3.01.    The Borrower.  As in previous agricultural projects, the Government
of Syrian Arab Republic would be the Borrower of the proposed Bank loan.
3.02.    Implementing Agencies.  MAAR would have the overall responsibility
for the implementation of the project. CAB would serve as a channel for the
sale of farm machinery on credit, and for recovery of the cost of derocking
operations and establishment of fruit trees (para. 3.18). Both would
collaborate with other Government agencies as needed. The basic principle
applied in designing the organizational framework is to build on the strengths
of the existing organizational structure of MAAR rather than creating new
institutions, and thus avoid duplication of responsibilities and functional
conflicts. To this end, the project implementing agencies would be part of
existing institutions but their staff would work full-time on the project.
Organigram of the project's implementation is shown in Chart World Bank 22880.
3.03.    A Project Steering Committee, established by Ministerial Decree No.
343/W of February 9, 1982 (by MAAR) would promote coordination, provide
general policy guidance to the implementing agencies, resolve conflicts, if
any, and monitor the project's progress throughout the project's
implementation phase. Its membership includes senior level representatives
from the concerned Government agencies including: MAAR, SPC, CAB, Ministry of
Local Administration, Governors of Deraa and Sweida, Head of the Peasants
Union, and key project personnel. The Committee would meet at least every
three months. Assurance were obtained that the Government would maintain the
Project Steering Committee during the implementation of the project (para.
5.01(e)).
3.04.    The specific responsibilities of MAAR would include:  the
establishment of orchards; and administration of the construction of farm
access roads, buildings, and other physical facilities. Private contractors
are not active at present in derocking of agricultural lands, and hence all
such operations are carried out by the Government. Under the project, attempt
would be made to encourage private entrepreneurs by giving them the
opportunity to lease some of the equipment to be procured to carry out the
derocking operations, if they choose and demonstrate capabilities to undertake
these responsibilities. If they do not come forward, MAAR would carry out the
works through force account.  The Ministry would also be responsible for
organizing and administering the procurement of equipment (derocking
equipment, farm machinery, and personnel vehicles); provision of extension
services; and the training aspects.
1/ This chapter deals only with the project but the discussions would apply
equally to the entire development program.



- 30 -
3.05.    To carry out its responsibilities, MkAR has set up in Damascus (by
Ministerial Decree No. 30/WL dated January 25, 1982) two Project  oordination
Units. one with the responsibility for coordinating the extension component
under its Directorate of Extension, and another one for all other components
under its Directorate of Agrarian Affairs; the work of both of these Units
would be coordinated by the Deputy Minister who would be in charge of all
project related activities.  These Units, for their respective lines of
responsibilities and in coordination with other sister agencies, would
coordinate timely preparation of project operational plans and ensure that
these plans are kept under continuous review; coordinate preparation of
project progress reports and a project completion report; identify
implementation bottlenecks, if any, and take appropriate measures to resolve
them or to ensure that measures are taken for their resolution; and prepare
bid documents and participate in evaluation and award of tenders. Each Unit
would be headed by a manager at the level of Deputy Director, and would be
staffed and equipped to enable it to perform its duties effectively. The
estimated staffing requirements are in Annex 1, Table T-9. Assurances were
obtained that the Government would maintain these Units throughout the project
implementation phase in order to assist MAR in carrying out the project
(para. 5.01(f)).
3.06.    The Ministry has also established by Executive Order no. 822 of
December 7, 1981 for Deraa and by Executive Oder no. 1340 of December 29,
1981 for Sweida) two Project Implementation Units in Deraa and two in Sweida
(one for extension, and another for all other project. components in each of
the provinces). They would have the authority and responsibility for the
direct administration of the project; participating in planning of the
schedule for the implementation of thte project; preparing progress reports and
a completion report on their respective responsibilities and preparing
sub-projects for financing by CAB. To perform the latter duty, CAB would
delegate suitably qualified personnel to these Units for the financial and
economic evaluation of sub-projects in collaboration with technicians of
K\AR. The extension Unit, through its extension centers, would be responsible
for providing extension support services to the project area farmers. For
administrative purposes, the Units would be located within the provincial
Agricultural Directorate of MAR but they would have direct access to and
communication with the Coordination Units in Damascus. The extension Unit
would be part of the provincial Department of Extension and the other Unit
would be part of the provincial Department of Agrarian Affairs. The Unit
under the Department of Agrarian Affairs would also supervise the construction
of farm access roads. Following completion of construction, the provincial
administrations would take over the task of maintining the roads as at present
and they would have personnel and budget for this purpose. This has been
discussed and confirmed with the Government. The estimated staffing
requirements are in Annex 1, Table T-9. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would keep these Units throughout the
project's implementation phase in order to assist MkAR in carrying out the
project (para. 5.01(f)).



- 31 -
3.07.    Concerning the establishment of orchards, MAAR would, through the
Project Implementation Units, prepare the land (derocking, terracing, and
levelling), acquire the seedlings and plant them and then transfer to the
owners for the maintenance of the young trees starting with the second year
after planting. The capabilities of the Units would be developed to carry
these responsibilities. They would have machinery sections equipped and
staffed to perform the land development operations, including repair and
maintenance facilities. They would also have properly staffed sections for
implementing the fruit tree planting program, as well as for the evaluation of
sub-loans (para. 3.15).
3.08.    The spare parts for the farm machinery to be provided under the
project woulo be stocked and their distribution would be administered by the
above mentioned machinery sections of the Project Implementation Units.
However, the repair and maintenance of the machinery would be done largely by
private shops which are presently providing similar services to a large number
oi tractors in the project area, their major weakness being that they are not
equipped to do major overhauls. Major overhauls are presently done in
Damascus. To complement the private sector, however, the Government owned
General Organization for Farm Machinery (GOFM), which is a financially
autonomous agency, plans to allocate to the project area about 20 presently
available mobile workshops along with the necessary mechanics (at least two
per unit) to support the proposed project. Assurances were obtained that the
Government would cause GOFM to transfer to the project area the above
.entioned 20 mobile units no later than June 30, 1983 (para. 5.01(g)). It is
also expected that the private workshops would expand in response to the
growth in demand for their services to be generated by the additional tractors
which would be provided under the project. Similar responsiveness has been
demonstrated in the northern part of the country where the private sector is
relatively stronger due mainly to greater demand for private repair and
maintenance services generated by higher level of mechanization.
3.09.    GOFM also intends to establish a major repair and maintenance
facility in Deraa under the 5th Five Year Plan with a capability to perform
major overhauls for both private and public sector machinery. A feasibility
study is underway and is expected to be completed by the end of this year with
constructioln planned to be undertaken during 1982-84. Since the facility is
important in the long-run for the mechanization effort in the entire region
including the proposed project, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government would ensure the facility would be completed by December
31, 1984 (para. 5.01(h)).
B. Use of Funds
3.10.    Flow of Funds.  The Government, through its NAAR' would utilize
US038.8 million of the proposed Bank loan and IFAD's loan for financing
equipment for land development and spares (US$ 19.0 million), vehicles for the
extension service and for project administration (US$ 0.9 million), farm
machinery including spares (US$ 13.9 million) and for civil works construction
of mainly farm access roads (US$ 5.0 million).



- 32 -
3.11.    The farm machinery (exclusive of spares) which would be procured by
MAAR amounting to US$11.9 million would be sold to farmers or cooperatives
through CAB. The beneficiaries would apply to CAB for sub-loans to purchase
the machinery, and after approving the sub-loans CAB would authorize MAAR to
pass possession of the machinery to the beneficiaries and at the same time
establish accounts of the beneficiaries for the sub-loan amounts granted. The
arrangements and the terms of financing the sub-loans would be stipulated in
an administrative and financial arrangement to be entered between the
Government and CAB not later than December 31, 1982 (para. 5.01(i)). When the
sub-loans made by CAB are repaid to it, the amount not needed to service the
Government's debt with CAB would be available to CAB for purposes of financing
similar sub-projects; this would be stated in the above-mentioned
administrative and financial arrangement.
3.12.    Terms and Conditions. 1/  All subloans to be financed by CAB under
the project would be designed to meet legitimate credit requirements of
sub-borrowers, so that their terms will have the flexibility which is lacking
at present. These are elaborated below.
3.13.    Short-term loans for inputs, which would be financed by CAB's own
resources, would be for periods of up to one year. As at present, 100% of
eligible costs would be financed through credit. The major difference with
current practices would be the assessment by appraisal teams of input needs
and other expenses by types of farms with variations according to soil
conditions, rainfall, capabilities of farm managers, and estimated actual
cropping patterns.
3.14.    Rates of interest on the various types of subloans including longterm
loans for fruit tree cultivation would be at least at the level of currently
prevailing interest rates (para. 1.28). They are estimated to be more than
adequate to cover subloan administration expenses. 2/ The present security
requirements (e.g. appraised value of collateral is at least 200% of the
amount of the loan) would continue for the time being but the proper project
appraisal techniques to be introduced under the project are expected to reduce
the excessive dependence on collateral. The repayment terms of the sub-loans
would not change as a result of the project. However, the presently fixed
terms would become ceilings thus allowing for shorter repayment (and grace
periods) terms if financial appraisal of the sub-projects warrants it.
Subloans for farm machinery would be made for up to five years including up to
one year of grace. For fruit tree planting subloans would be repaid over
periods not exceeding ten years including grace periods of up to five years.
1/ The discussions in paras 3.13-3.21 would apply for all project financing
(domestic and external).
2/ Interest incomes during the initial four years are computed at SL 8.8
million (US$2.2 million) while the sub-loan processing costs are
calculated at about SL 8.3 million (US$2.1 million).



- 33-
3.15.    Prolect Processing Policies and Procedures.  The organizational
responsibilities proposed for sub-loan processing take into account the
prevailing system of centralized planning of credit and CAB's lack of autonomy
and familiarity with concepts of project evaluation. The significant changes
required in lending policies and practices under the project would be
accomplished by placing the responsibility for subproject appraisal and
supervision with the Project Implementation Units. Some of the existing
functions and procedures woula be retained. As at present, for example, CAB's
branches would receive all subloan applications, check the applicants' credit
records and documentation provided (including land titles) and evaluate
collaterals. After the subloans are evaluated and approved, the CAB branch
concerned would prepare the loan documentations, collect repayments and
maintain subloan accounts. In the case of sub-loans where CAB's funds are
used, CAB would also make disbursement.
3.l6.    Prospective investors would receive assistance, including help in
preparing subprojects from the Project Implementation Units. Teams of these
Units with members specializing in technical and financial aspects would carry
out subproject appraisal and supervision. Appraisals would ensure that
subprojects are technically feasible and financially and economically viable.
The emphasis in analysis would shift from collateral to the anticipated costs
and benefits from investments. Initially, all medium- and long-term subloans
would require approval by the Damascus Project Coordination Unit, whose
decisions would be used by CAB for extending sub-loans. A schedule for
progressive delegation of approval authority (by amounts and categories) to
the Implementation Units would be drawn up by the Project Coordination Unit in
consultation with the Government and the Bank. A system of sub-project
appraisal (including formats for appraisal reports) satisfactory to the Bank
would be established prior to June 30, 1983. Assurances were obtained to this
effect (5.01(j)). To assist in developing standards, the following
sub-project appraisal reports would be submitted for the Bank's review: The
first three sub-projects in each of Deraa and Sweida, thereafter every tenth
sub-project in chronological sequence during the first year; thereafter, this
requirement would be reviewed. This would require the Bank to review about 50
reports representing not more than one percent of all sub-loans. In regard to
short-term loans, input requirements would be determined as per present
procedures, followed by appraisal staff estimates of adjustments needed for
the speciai situations of typical individual farms. Guidelines for input
financing would be established annually by the Damascus Project Coordination
Units.
3.17.    A credit consultant, to be engaged under an earlier Fruit Trees
project financed by KfW, would have as part of his responsibility the
provision of guidance to CAB headquarters staff on project appraisal. This
guidance would also support operations under this project. This would be
complemented by the technical assistance to be provided under the project.
3.18.    Cost Recovery.  Concerning all derocking operations and the
establishment of orchards, MAAR would carry out these operations paid out of
its own budget on behalf of the farmers. CAB would reimburse the Ministry the



- 34 -
expenditures, and charge to the accounts of the beneficiaries their
corresponding shares which would then be treated as credit to be repaid on the
same terms and conditions as for other similar sub-loans. This is a normal
practice in Syria, and the farmers are familiar with the procedures. For the
establishment of orchards, including derocking for this purpose, the implicit
sub-loans would carry interest rates of at least 2% for cooperatives and at
least 3% for private farmers. They would be repaid within a maximum of 10
years including up to 5 years of grace. The implicit sub-loans for derocking
in the field crop areas would carry interest rates of at least 4% for
cooperatives and at least 5-1/2% for private farmers repayable within 5 years
including up to one year of grace. The recovery terms and conditions would be
stipulated in the administrative and financial arrangement to be entered
between the Government and CAB (para. 3.11).
C. Progress Reporting, MDnitoring, and Evaluation
3.19.    Responsibility for preparing progress and completion reports, and for
the monitoring and evaluation of the project would rest with MiAR. The
Project Coordination Units in Damascus would coordinate the preparation of all
reports and consolidate the same for submission to the Bank. They would also
monitor the project's execution on the basis of targets established in
cooperation with the Implementation Units.
3.20.    Progress reports would be prepared twice each calendar year covering
the periods January-June and July-December and submitted to the Bank no later
than September of the same year and Mhrch of the next year respectively. The
first progress report would be due no later than Mrch 31, 1983 covering the
progress during July-December 1982 (para. 5.02). The reports would focus on
analysis of the various project activities; progress in achieving established
targets and reasons for shortfalls, if any; how lessons from past experiences
are used for planning; and suggestions for improving the project's
implementation. The information to be included in the reports along with
suggested format for presenting the data were reviewed with the Borrower at
the time of negotiations. The Government would also cause MAAR to prepare and
furnish to the Bank a completion report on the project not later than six
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Government and the Bank (para. 5.01(k)).
3.21.    Mbnitoring and evaluation of the proposed project (and of the
development program) would rest with MIAR, which would delegate this
responsibility to the Project Implementation Units.  Some of the staff of
these Units would be assigned to perform specifically monitoring and
evaluation functions, and would work with their counterpart personnel at the
Damascus Project Coordination Units. The monitoring would include progress in
physical implementation (number of farmers contacted, effective tools of
contact, those who adopt the recommended technological packages); and
evaluation (analysis of comparisons of targets with achievements, yield
development, progress in attaining project objectives, etc). The lessons to
be learnt from the project would be utilized in formulating the second phase
project. Consultants would be provided to help develop a monitoring and
evaluation system, and foreign training would be provided for selected
extensionists with special emphasis in monitoring and evaluation.



- 35 -
D. Accounts and Audit
3.22.    The Project Coordination Units and the Implementation Units, and CAB
would maintain separate accounts of project funds in accordance with their
respective functions. These accounts would be consolidated by the Damascus
Project Coordination Units which would be responsible for control and
reporting. This matter was discussed during the appraisal and the Government
agreea that the project staff at the Damascus Project Coordination Units and
at the Implementation Units in Deraa and Sweida would include accountants for
this purpose. The matter was confirmed during negotiations. Also, before any
disbursement is made from the Bank loan, MAAR would furnish to the Bank two
conformed copies of each contract for the equipment and civil works (para.
2.37). Project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and the audited accounts submitted to the Bank within
six months of the close of each fiscal year. Assurances were obtained to this
effect (para. 5.01(1)).



- 36 -
IV. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONY/
A. Cropping Pattern, Yield, and Production
4.01.    The cropping pattern, yield, and production without and with the
development program are expected to be as follows:
Item              Area              Yield                   Production
Without   With    Without   With    Without   With
Program  Program  Program  Program  Program  Program Incremental
-----('000 ha)---  ----(tons/ha)---  --------('000 tons)--------
Field Crops
Wheat          36.5      44.8       0.8       1.5     29.2      67.2       38.0
Barley          3.4       2.2      0.7       1.3       2.4       2.9        0.5
Sorghum         3.1       3.0      0.7       1.2       2.2       3.6        1.4
Chickpeas      19.3      28.6      0.5       0.9       9.6      25.7       16.1
Lentils         3.1       1.9      0.6       0.8       1.9       1.5       (0.4)
Vetches         3.8       4.0      0.6       1.0       2.3       4.0        1.7
Sesame          3.2      4.1       0.3       0.4       1.0       1.6        0.6
Watermelon      6.9       3.1       7.4     12.3      51.1      38.1      (13.0)
Fallow         14.7       2.3      -         -         -
Sub-total   94.0      94.0       -         -         -         -         -
Fruit Trees
Almonds         -         0.7      -         4.0       -         2.8        2.8
Apples          -         2.0      -        10.0       -        20.0       20.0
Cherries        -         0.5      -         6.0       -         3.0        3.0
Grapes          -         0.9      -        11.3       -        10.2       10.2
Olives          -         2.2      -         3.0       -         6.6        6.6
Pears           -         0.7      -         9.0       -         6.3        6.3
Sub-total    -         7.0       -         -         -        -          -
Total     94.0    101.0        -         -         -         -         -
The cropping intensity at present amounts to about 84%.  With project, this is
expected to increase to about 97% due to reduction of fallow.
4.02.    No significant changes are expected in the without-the-program
situation in cropping pattern and yield in the absence of improved cultural
practices of production, presence of rocks, and lack of investment in fruit
tree development in the unutilized hilly lands. With the improvements under
the proposed program, the farmers are likely to use the previous fallow lands
for increasing the areas under the traditionally most important crops in the
1/ As phases I and II are interdependent, the benefits would be evaluated for
both phases ratber than for the project alone. Therefore, the focus of
discussions in this chapter would be the 8-year development program.



- 37 -
region ana in response to the country's priority for production of crops such
as wheat, chLckpeas, and sesame. The mix of crops would remain unchanged
although the emphasis in the cultivation of different crops could change
sligntly in any year depending on the farmers' responsiveness to changes in
rainfall pattern and other factors of production. The cropping pattern in the
fruit tree areas is based mainly on suitability of the proposed sites for the
different types of trees, experience with existing distribution of similar
types of orchards in the region, and the growers' preference to minimize their
risks by planting mixes of trees instead of relying on a single crop.
4.03.    The yield increases for the field crops, which are based on the
expected value of future yields depending on probability distribution of
different levels of rainfall, would vary by rainfall zones and by the degree
of rockiness. Areas in zone I and those which would be derocked would show
the greatest increases while the responses would not be as large in zone II.
On the average, yields of field crops are projected to increase by about
30-90% depending on the types of crops and their expected responsiveness to
the recommended improvements. The least responsive crop would be lentils as
their proauction would be restricted to zone II. Zone I areas would be used
for tne late maturing crops where the soil moisture condition is more
critical. The greatest increases are expected from cereals as these crops
woula be more favorably responsive to the recommended cultural practices of
production. Some "progressive" farmers in the area already attain yields
which exceed the projections for the project. The projected yields are
conservative. They are based on over 15 years of research in the project
area, and are substantially below yields which are already being obtained by a
few progressive farmers in the area. 1-
4.04.    Concerning the fruit trees, the projected yields are based on results
of several years of research in the country, particularly in the project area,
and are comparable to yields obtained under similar circumstances in nearby
countries.
4.05.    For the field crops, the projected yields from any given area are
estimated to be attained on the fifth year after adoption by the farmers of
the recommended cultural practices in increments of 40%, 20%, 15%, 15%, and
10%. The relatively large increases during the first two years are based on
the recognition that improvements in basic cultural practices particularly
timely land preparation secondary tillage, and weeding would show large
results quickly. Farmers who would participate in the latter part of the
program's implementation are expected to take less time to get peak yields as
they would benefit from the demonstration effect of the early participants
although for purposes of the analysis they are assumed to take the same number
of years. The extended period of yield development is based on the expected
progressive adoption of the recommended technological package and refinement
of its application. Based on the above, the peak production from the entire
1/ The expected yields have been assumed to reach only about 60% of the
levels reached in research plots in Zone II.



- 38 -
field crop area would be obtained on about the thirteenth year of the
program. These rates of development take into account the intensive extension
service, farmers' previous knowledge of the crops and the technology, and
because most of the recommended practices would be applied mechanically by
experienced machinery operators. The development period for the fruit trees,
which is based on actual experiences in Deraa and Sweida, varies by trees
ranging from six years for grapes to ten years for apples, olives, and pears.
Peak production over the entire fruit tree areas is projected to be attained
in sixteen years following the initial planting, which would also be the
estimatea period for attaining peak production over the entire program area.
B. Marketing and Markets
4.06.    The organization for marketing the outputs is expected to remain
unchanged (para. 1.14). GCOPT operates through a network of branches, of
which there are several serving Deraa and Sweida. About 50,000 tons of the
relevant commodities from the region are marketed presently by the
organization, and it would be able to handle the expected peak additional
60,000 tons of program output of similar commodities projected to be attained
by about 1993. Meanwhile, the gradually increasing outputs are expected to be
processed by the existing mills in the region by increasing the shifts of
operations and/or by using underutilized mills elsewhere. As part of its
integrated planning process the Government intends to construct the necessary
additional processing facilities but these would not be required in the
immediate future. The private sector can be expected to respond to market
incentives and to expand marketing facilities (storage, grading, processing,
etc.) induced by the proposed investments. These additional facilities would
not be essential until the second half of the decade when the harvests from
the program would start to increase the supply.
4.07.    Virtually all of the outputs are expected to be used to satisfy the
growing domestic demand and hence would serve as import substitutes. Except
for chickpeas, lentils, and barley the country has remained a net importer of
all the commodities over the past decade. In particular, net imports of wheat
have tended to increase in the recent past, and the net imports of fruit
averaged around 20,000 tons per year in the second half of 1970's. The
country has been a net exporter of barley until about mid-1970's but recently
has tended to import increasingly large quantities due to insufficient
domestic production to satisfy the growing demand for livestock feed.
Concerning chickpeas and lentils, Syria is virtually self-sufficient with only
small volume of exports.
4.08.    Faced with a rapidly growing population (and demand) and sluggish
growth in production, Syria is expected to continue to be a net importer of
the major crops, particularly cereals. Chickpeas are an important part of the
diet of the population, and the demand for them would continue to increase
concurrent with the rising population and income. As that crop is also an
important diet of the regional population as a whole, and since Syria is an
important producer of chickpeas, surplus production could be absorbed by the
growing market in that part of the world particularly in the oil-rich



- 39 -
countries with their limited potential for producing the crop. The outlook
for marketing outputs of fruit is similarly favorably. Based on domestic
demand and supply projections made by FAO/CP,ll the estimated domestic
production, taking into account the planned additional plantings, would not be
able to satisfy the growing demand. The deficit is projected to increase to
nearly 80,000 tons by the turn of the century. Similar projections have been
made by the Government. Based on the above, therefore, no serious
difficulties are anticipated in marketing the outputs.
C. Output Prices
4.09.    The financial and economic prices used in the program's and project's
evaluation are shown in Annex 1, Table T-10. At the farmgate, except for
wheat, domestic prices of the field crops correspond closely with those
derived from world prices. They are, therefore, used in both financial and
economic analyses. In the case of wheat the farmgate price derived from world
estimate is slightly higher than the Government price and the derived price is
used for the economic analysis while the Government declared price is used for
financial analyses. The prices of fruit vary depending on grade and quality,
but to be on the conservative side, the lower ranges of prices at harvest are
used in the financial and economic analysis. All prices are assumed to remain
constant in real terms throughout the life of the project.
D. Financial Indicators
4.10.    Beneficiaries and Their Incomes.  Approximately 10,000 farm families
(58,000 people) would benefit directly from the proposed development program.
Typically, each family owns about ten to twelve hectares in several parcels
which are used to grow mostly field crops. Virtually all of the beneficiaries
are part of the poverty target rural population. Per capita income in the
region is presently estimated at about SL800 (US$ 202) compared to the
estimated national poverty income level (1980) of about SL 1,105 (US$ 280).
The standard of living is generally poor, and this has been an important
factor influencing the migration to urban centers and to other countries in
search of better income opportunities. At full development, per capita farm
derived incomes are projected to more than double to about SL 2,600 (US$ 660),
computed in constant 1981 prices, based on a conservative assumption that
farmers would grow only field crops. The projected incomes would be higher if
the farmers cultivate mixtures of field crops and fruit trees.
4.11.    Financial Rate of Return.  Based on holding sizes of ten hectares in
zone I and twelve hectares in zone II, and assuming cropping patterns, yields
and yield development as discussed above, the financial rates of returns to
the beneficiaries on investment in field crop development are projected to
1/ Report of the Syria Fruit Tree Development Project Preparation Mission
(July 3, 1978), Annex 10.



- 40 -
exceed 40%. 1/ The return on farmers' equity would be even higher because
their contribution would be small and mostly in kind. Therefore, farmers
would have substantial financial incentives to participate in the project.
Based on analysis of farm budgets for selected ten field crop models, the
beneficiaries would be able to pay their loans at the prescribed terms without
undue financial hardships.
4.12.    Similar analysis on the models for fruit trees indicated financial
rate of returns in excess of 30%. Farmers are well able to repay their loans
unaer the prescribed terms without undue difficulties also. It should also be
noted that in this analysis credit for financing inputs for maintenance of the
trees would need to be given each year until first harvest for most fruit
crops (e.g. apples) but some others (e.g. almonds) may require this facility
for an additional year. The first three years are regarded as the crucial
ones ana farmers tend to maintain the stands more or less by themselves.
Family labor was set at 85% of the total labor cost. For subsequent years,
this figure was reduced to 50% as the fruit plantations would have passed the
crucial stages and harvesting activities (usually done by hired labor) would
be the largest contributor to the farm labor cost.
E. Economic Indicators
4.13.    The economic rate of return (ERR) on investments in the entire
development program is-estimated at about 18%. The economic rate of return on
the fruit tree component alone is computed at about 20%, and the corresponding
return on the field crop component is estimated at about 15%. The net present
value, discounted at 12% over the life of the program, is estimated at about
SL 230 million (US$ 58 million). If phase II is not implemented, the ERR on
investments in the project alone, including the farm machinery for the first
year of the second phase, is computed at about 14%. Sensitivity analysis
shows that if the cost of the project increases by 20% and the benefit remains
unchanged from the base case, or if the benefit is reduced by 20% and the cost
remains unchanged, the ERR on investment in the project is computed at 12%
and 11% respectively.  A lag of two years in attaining the project benefit
woula result in an ERR of about 11%. The above estimates are based on the
previously discussed projections of cropping pattern, yields and their
development; investment costs and their phasing; and prices. In addition, the
following main assumptions underlie the rate of return calculations:
1/ Since the financial and economic prices are virtually the same, the
economic and financial rates of returns on the entire development program
are also virtually the same. However, the financial rates of return to
tne individual beneficiary would be higher because some costs chargeable
to the program (e.g., extension and program administration) would not be
chargeable to the beneficiary, and also because there are initially heavy
investment in procurement of equipment for the development program while
the benefits accrue gradually while in the case of the individual
beneficiary the lag between costs and benefits is not as pronounced to
have as adverse effect on the financial rate of return.



- 41 -
(a) the life of the program is assumed to be 30 years based on the
productive ages of the orchards;
(b) the benefit streams include both grain and straw yields for
field crops wherever applicable;
(c) the price of farm labor is set at the going market wage rate of
about SL 50 (US5 12.65) per man-day, which is determined by the
forces of demand and supply; and
(d) the removal of subsidies would equalize the domestic prices of
inputs such as chemical fertilizers, herbicides and insecticides
in line with those derivea from world prices. Hence, the prices
used woula be free of subsidies and reflect the real costs of
production and marketing of these inputs.
4.14.    The estimated economic rates of returns could be adversely affected
by several factors such as underachievement in yields or yield development,
and higher prices of inputs-coupled with lower output prices. Sensitivity
analysis indicates that the investment in the development program would still
yield an overall rate of return of 11% even if costs increased by 50%. At 12%
discount rate, switching values are -30% for benefits and +42% for costs.
Summary of results of sensitivity analysis is as follows:
Assumption                                   Economic Rate of Return (%)
Program   Field Crop Component   Field Tree
Component
Basic Run                             18                15                 20
20% increase in costs                 15                10                 18
10% decrease in benefits              16                12                 18
Benefits lag by one year              15                12                 18
Benefits lag by two years             13                10                 16
10% increase in costs,
lag of one year in benefits        14                 10                17
4.15.    The rates of returns would be higher than those shown above if the
projected benefit streams increase and/or the costs are reduced. The
benefit streams are based on conservative assumptions about yields and their
aevelopment periods; and about the rates of yield uptake. There are also
other factors wnich would at least guard against possible declines in the
benefit streams as discussed herein. The probability of prices decreasing
appreciably is low due to the strong domestic demand for fruits and the
importance of cereals and legumes in Syrian diets and the expectation that
there would continue to be shortages of fruits in Syria, and the demand,
which is income-elastic, would continue to grow faster than supply. Also,
lack of maintenance of fruit trees caused by inadequate roads during wet
periods could lead to lower than expected yields. Similarly, lower quality
of narvests could result if the roads are not suitable for smooth
transportation of the procucts. However, the roads to be built will render
farm access more suitable for operation, maintenance, and other activities.
Similarly, risks deriving from deficiencies in marketing and other
post-harvest operations would be reduced through this provision of access.
Other risk allevation measures may stem from the fact that farmers will be



- 42 -
more able and inclined to frequently inspect cultivations which may lead to
the earlier detection and control of insect attacks and weed infestations.
All of the above would be monitored and evaluated carefully during the
course of implementation and development.
F.  Risks
4.16.    The proposed investments are intended to reduce the risks of
agricultural production.  They would, for instance, reduce the risk of
production associated with inadequate rainfall by improving soil moisture
conservation through improved seedbed preparation and weeding, and split
application of fertilizers (intensive training of the farmers through the
extension service to enable them to minimize losses in case of poor rainfall
and to maximize benefits in good or better rainfall seasons). The key
factors which would determine the success of the program are the
responsiveness of the beneficiaries to the recommended cultural practices,
the stability of the rural population, and their motivation to stay in the
area. Both of these are greatly influenced by the security in the area and
the capabilities of the execution agencies in carrying out their intended.
responsibilities. Safeguards which would reduce the adverse consequences of
the above are discussed below.
4.17.    In general, tae beneficiaries are responsive to incentives and the
estimated attractive financial remunerations are expected to induce them to
p-'rticipate in the program. Also, the program has been under preparation
for several years during which the farmers' knowledge of the proposal and
their expectations have been increasing steadily. These are expected to
generate quick responsiveness by the farmers.
4.18.    Concerning the institutional aspects, the Bank's experiences with
on-going agricultural projects in Syria show that the strengths of
implementing agencies are key factors for the success of projects. These
strengths are measured mainly by the availability of qualified personnel
with clearly defined responsibilities and by the availability of material
support to them. The Government is highly committed to the development
program as it considers it the first of a possible series of rainfed
agricultural programs. The program staff would work on a full time basis to
avoid aiffusion of their responsibilities, and they would be provided with
adequate vehicles and other support. They would also be paid field
allowances (which are permitted by law) to supplement the generally low
public salary scales compared to the private sector. All these measures are
expected to help in establishing relatively strong institutions for the
implementation, and hence to reduce the risks of institutional
inadequacies. The time-slicing approach to the project design, the assumed
slow and progressive adoption of the recommended technological packages, and
the building-up of strong extension service would all belp in reducing the
risks.
4.19.    In conclusion, the proposed development program would not be immune
from risks, but the above measures are designed to minimize them. Intensive
supervision effort at least during the early phases of the execution would
be needed to monitor progress, identify key problem areas and take
corrective actions to further minimize or avoid the risks and to attain the
objectives within the projected period.



- 43 -
V. AGREEMNTS REACHED AM  RECOMMENATICNS
5.01.    During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
would-.
(a)  employ consultants for training project staff in the techniques
of project identification, preparation, appraisal, and
supervision not later than April 30, 1983 on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.19);
(b)  employ consultants to help develop a monitoring and evaluation
system no later than April 30, 1983 on terms and conditions
which are satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.20);
(c)  develop a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system in
respect of the Development Program and submit the same to the
Bank by khrch 31, 1983, and thereafter implement the agreed
procedures (para. 2.20);
(d)  by December 31, 1982, set up the training program in the
province of Deraa for machinery operators and mechanics in
consultation with the Bank (para. 2.21);
(e)  maintain until the project is completed a Project Steering
Committee (para. 3.03);
(f)  maintain the Project Coordination Units in Damascus and the
Implementation Units in Deraa and Sweida throughout the project
implementation phase in order to assist MMAR in carrying out the
project (paras. 3.05 and 3.06);
(g)  cause its General Organization for Farm ^ chinery to transfer to
the project area 20 fully equipped mobile repair and maintenance
units to serve the project area farmers by June 30, 1983 and
keep the same units in the area throughout the project
implementation phase (para. 3.08);
(h)  cause its General Organization for Farm Mhchinery to complete
the construction of a repair and maintenance facility with
capability to perform major overhauls in Deraa area no later
than December 31, 1984 (para 3.09);
(i)  enter into an administrative and financial arrangement with CAB
for purpose of arranging sale of farm machinery to farmers and
the recovery of the cost of derocking operations and
establishment of fruit trees (para. 3.11);
(j) establish a system of sub-project appraisal satisfactory to the
Bank prior to June 30, 1983 (para. 3.16);



- 44 -
(k)  prepare and furnish to the Bank a completion report on the
project not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Government and the Bank (para. 3.20); and
(1)  keep separate project accounts, and to have these accounts
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
submit to the Bank certified copies of the audit reports within
four months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.22).
5.02.    During negotiations, an understanding was reached that the Government
would make arrangements to furnish to the Bank necessary data and information
on all project components through semi-annual reports beginning with Mfrch 31,
1983 and every six months thereafter (para. 3.20).
5.03.    No withdrawls shall be made for expenditures made against the farm
machinery for the first year of Phase II of the Development Program until,
based on a joint review by the Government and the Bank of the progress of
development under Phase I, the Bank is satisfied with the justification of
continuation of development under Phase II, and the Government has conveyed to
the Bank its intention to complete the development program as planned (para.
2.29).
5.04.    The following would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan: Government's submission to the Bank of satisfactory evidence that
the execution and delivery on behalf of the borrower of the IFAD Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action and all-other conditions precedent to effectiveness of the said loan
have been fulfilled (para. 2.35).
5.05.    Agreements having been reached on the above conditions, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$22 million on standard terms. The Borrower
would be the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic.



SYRIA
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Annual Rainfall data in Program Area (mm)
Sweida Province                                                      Deraa Province
Year          SweidaL!EAin-Al-ArabL:_Shahbas'SalkhabLL2   DeralZlzra/SlnkhollNSheikh MIskeei,TseeL/- Shajar&l1 Nawad/11-1 Harr;t2
1966-67        604                    536        559         423    392                                                    544
1967-68        367                    385        344         390    369                                                   424
1968-69        465                    420        369         348    407                                                   638
1969-70        349                    356        275         249    363                                                   473
1970-71        439                    383        387         355    352                                                    510
1971-72        396                    438        384         327    320                                                   374
1972-73        218                    274        314         196    229                                                    244
1973-74        408                    426        485         389    386                                                   454
1974-75        188                    257        296         141    182                                                    285
1975-76        353        560         480        387         253    274                   349         357       449        420        703
1976-77        316        472         313        338         222    321       300         385         495        513      460         626              1
1977-78        363        457         270        217         183    351       398         346         450       442        495        690             4
1978-79        198        317         175        224         120    164       132         186         216        225       203        410             U
1979-80        558        689         539        533         362              527         508         643        735       638        863
Average        373        499         375        365          283    316      339         355          432       473       440        658
(November-April
% of Total)  92.6        92.3        89.6       93.4        93.0   95.6    93.7          95.9         93.8      96.7      95.7       94.6
(March-April
% of Total)  25.9        29.9        25.4       29.9        23.6   20.4    25.5          31.8         30.2      31.5      22.0       27.3
/1    Zone I - Field Crop
/2    Located just North of Zone II - Field Crop (Area South of Salkhad generally receives less rain).                                         M
73    Zone I - Fruit Trees
/4    Zone II -Field Crops
November 1981



SYRIA
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Altitude, Temperature and Relative Humidity Data (15 years)
Province/Town     Altitude                                                                                                 Yearly
m          Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   Ma       June   July   Aug.   Sep.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.    Average
Dera'a/Sanamein       750    1/   7.0    8.3   11.2   15.0   19.9   23.7   24.9   25.6   23.2   19.7   13.8    9.2          16.8
2/  12.3   14.4   17.8   22.3   28.3   32.3   33.6   34.6   31.9   27.9   21.0   14.6         24.3
3/   2.5    2.8    4.6    7.7   11.1   15.2   16.7   17.2   15.3   12.7    8.4    4.7          9.9
41  77.0   70.0   65.0   57.0   48.0   44.0   50.0   52.0   53.0   48.0   56.0   72.0         58.0
Dera'a/Tel Shehab     399    1/   8.5    9.6   12.2   15.9   20.3   23.0   25.0   25.7   23.6   20.5   14.9   10.6          17.6
2/  14.8   16.4   19.1   23.6   28.6   32.5   32.9   33.8   31.5   28.9   17.2   25.2         25.2
3/   3.3    3.6    5.1    7.8   10.8   15.0   17.5   18.1   15.4   11.9    7.8    5.0         10.1
4/  78.0   74.0   70.0   63.0   57.0   55.0   59.0   61.0   62.0   56.0   61.0   73.0         64.0
Dera'a/Izraa          575    1/   7.8    9.0   11.7   15.i  20.3   23.9   24.9   25.6   23.7   20.2   14.5    9.8           17.3           1
2/  13.4   15.3   18.6   23.3   28.6   32.7   33.5   34.3   31.9   28.5   21.7   15.6         24.8          >
3/   3.2    3.5    5.0    8.1   11.3   15.0   17.1   18.0   15.7   12.4    7.8    4.6         10.1          1
4/  77.0   73.0   67.0   61.0  54.0   50.0   57.0   59.0   57.0   52.0   59.0   73.0          62.0
Sweida/Sweida        1010    1/   6.9    7.8   10.3   14.3  18.7   22.5   23.1   23.7   21.5   19.2   14.3    9.7           16.0
2/  11.0   12.7   15.5   20.1   25.6   30.1   31.0   31.8   30.2   25.7   19.3   14.2         22.0
3/   3.5    3.7    5.4    8.4   11.5   14.8   15.8   16.6   14.8   13.4    9.8    5.9         10.3
4/  74.0   70.0   65.0   57.0  50.0   44.0   50.0   51.0   54.0   51.0   59.0   68.0          58.0
Sweida/Salkhad       1447    1/   4.4    5.4    8.1   12.4   17.0   21.2   22.5   23.1   21.1   17.7   11.8    7.5          14.3
2/   8.3    9.8   12.8   17.5   22.8   27.5   29.0   29.9   28.3   23.1   16.5   11.0         19.7
S/   1.5    1.7    3.4    7.3   12.5   15.0   17.5   17.4   15.1   12.2    7.4    3.2          9.5
Sweida/Ein-Al-Arab   1510   1I   2.5    3.6    6.1    9.9   14.6   18.4   19.6  20.3   18.3   15.0    9.4    5.3            11.9
2/   6.3    7.8   10.7   15.4  20.9   25.5   26.8   27.6   26.0   20.7   14.4    9.6          17.6
3/  -0.7   -0.5    1.4    4.1    7.4   10.1   11.3   12.1   10.4    8.4    4.3    1.5          5.8
4/  80.0   75.0   65.0   56.0  44.0   39.0   41.0   42.0   45.0   53.0   60.0   71.0          56.0     2
1/ Mean daily air thmperature (OC)
2/ Mean daily maximitm air temperature (OC)                                                                                            I-.
3/ Mean daily minimum air temperature (OC)
4/ Mean relative humidity (%)
November 1981



SYRIA
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Rates of Adoptions of Technological Packages in Field Crop Areas
Zone I-SI (5550 Target Farmers) 1/
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988           1989
Number of Farmers Contact 2/                 .200      650      1,200   1,700  1,700       800      320      256        205
Number of Participants in Program 3/
1981
1982
1983                                40       --
1984                                80      130         --      --      --       --       --       --
1985                                40      260        240      --      --       --       --      --
1986                                20      130        480     340      --       --       --      --
1987                                --       65        240     680    340        --       --      --          --
1988                                --       --        120     340    680       160       --      --          --
1989                                --       --         --     170    340       320       64      --          --
Area Under Program Owned by Participants -----------------------------(ha)…--------------------------------
and Included in Program
1981
1982
1983                               300       --         _-      __      __
1984                               600   1,000          --      --      --
1985                               300   2,000       1,900      --      --
1986                               150   1,000       3,800   2,600      --
1987                                --      500      1,900   5,200  2,600        --
1988                                --       --        950   2,600  5,200   1,250         --
1989                                --       --         --   1,300  2,600   2,500        500
1/ Assuming that 90% of farmers contacted would adopt as follows: 20% would adopt during the 3rd year after initial
contact, 40% during the 4th year, 20% during the 5th year, and 10% during the 6th year.
2/ Based on the development of extension service.  These contacts exclude farmers who have already been contacted
by the existing extension service.  Contacts of non-adoptors gradually decline beginning year 1986.  The balance
to full capacity of 1,700 contacts would constitute farmers who have adopted but require contacts for further                a t
refinement of the package.                                                                                                   ( 
3/ These would represent about 90% of the target farmers.
November 1981



SYRIA
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Rate of Adoption of Recommended Technological Packages in Field Crop Areas of
Zone II-S1 (3,700 Target Farmers) 1/
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988          1989
Number of Farmers Contacted 2/                  -     350        700   1,260  1,260   1,260   1,260    1,134    1,020
Number of Participants in Program 3/
1981
1982                                 -       -          -        -      -        -        -        -         -
19823
1983                                 -       --                         -----
1984                                 -      35          -
1985                                 -      70         70        -
1986                                 -       70       140      126      -        -        -
1987                                 -      35        140      252    126.       -        -        -         -
1988                                 -       -         70      252    252      126        -        -         -
1989                                 -       -          -      126    252      252      126        -         -
Area Under Program Owned by Participants    ---------------------(ha)…---…----------
and Included in Program
1981                                 -       -          -        -      -
1982                                 -
1983                                 -       -
1984                                 -     400          -
1985                                 -     800        800        -      -
1986                                 -     800      1,600   1,450       -
1987                                 -     400      1,600   2,900  1,450         -
1988                                 -       -        800   2,900  2,900   1,450                             -
1989                                 -       -          -   1,450  2,900   2,900   1,450
1/  Assuming that 60% of farmers contacted would adopt as follows: 10% would adopt   during the 3rd year after
initial contact, 20% during the 4th year, 20% during the 5th year, and 10% during the 6th year.
2/  Based on the development of the extension service.  These contacts exclude farmers who have already been
contacted by the existing extension service.  Contacts of non-adoptors remain at full capacity through 1987              gte
after which it gradually declines.  The balance would constitute farmers who are adoptors but require contacts   m
for further refinement of the package.
3/  These would represent nearly 70% of the target farmers.
November 1981



SOUflIlIl REGIONAL AGRTCOLTUIA. DEVELOPMET9  PROJECT
Co-t Estimate fo-  8-Tey     DeeometPrga
Gred Total191                                             1983                         1984                        183                        0986                         197                         1988                         1989
Ite                        Local  Eoreia  Total  L-c1  F-reje    Total  Local  Forip,  Total                   Lo       F-rrigr  Total   Loc-I  F-rig   Tota    Loal.   orin  T.lLoa                       origo   Ttal   Loca    F-rign   Total    Local    F-tigo    Tota
Firld Crap D-nloepot
)~q-p-let                                      0.6     11.6      12.2    0.6       11.6     12.2     -         -         -         -        -         -       -                  -       -         -        -        -         -        -        -        -----
tqot.eP.ot  pe-t-g Coa                         7.0      -         7.0     -        -         -       1.0       -        1.9        1.8      -         1.8     1.8      -         1.8     1.8       -          .9     0.6      -         0.6     -         -                    ---
F-e  I-oi..r.                                    6.1     83.8     87.9      -                           .1     22.15    23.6         -   -             -        0.7     11.0      19.7          -             -        2.3     &6.3      48.6     -                   ----
loe- -atal FPam  Nabhtey Operaiog C-25O.9                  2.7     28.6     -         -        -        1.4      0.1       1.1       2.4       0.2      2.6     3. 2      0.3      3.5      4.6      9.1       1.1     5.0       0.6       5.6     4.9      0.5       5.1.       4.4        0.5        4.9
Fsetilia-t                                    13.8      5.6      19.4     -         -        -       0.7       0.3      1.0        1.3      0.9       1.8     1.7       0.1      2.4     2.0       1.       1 .5     2.7       0.1      3.8      2.6      1.0       1.6        2.3        t.0        3.3
Heebi-odea aed Pontioad..                      -        2.2       2.2    -                           -         0.1      0.1        -        0.2       0.2     -        0.3       0.3     -         P.O       9.4     -         0.4      0.4     .         0.4       0.4        -          0.4       0.4
Seede & Bags                                   5.7      -            . 7                             o    .3   -        0.3        0.0      -         0.5     0.7      -         0.7     1.0       -        1.0      1.1       -        1.1      1.1      -         1.1        1.0       -1,
Fam  A-ces  Roads                                5.0       4.       9.4     0.1       8.1      0.2      0.3      0.        1.0       0.3       0.7      1.0     2.2       1.5      3.7    2.1        1.4.      3.3     -         -         -       -         -----
Sob-total                               62.1    110.3    172.4      0.2     11.7       2.f4    4.8     23.7    278.0         6.3      1.6        .9   10.3      1-7.0     2-8.1    17.0O     3.3J    15.3    1-1.1     438.4     60.1      8.6      1.9      13.5       71.7       1.9        9.6
Frat T-e  D-nelp-et
E stabliab. het
L..d P-epa-aet     Eq.ipoost                   3.1     60.2      t3.3     3.1     60.2      63.2    -          -        -          -                 -             -        -                                                                                         
Eqoipseet Op-etitlg Coat                      26.8      2.17    29.5    -          -         -       3.8       0.4      4.2        6,9      0.7       7.6     6.9      0.7       7.6     6.9       0.7      7.6    21.3       0.2       2.5      -        -         -                     --
Pa-M-han.a..ey                                 0.7     13.0      13.7                                o    .3   5.2      0.2        0.2      3.4       3.6     -         -        -       0.2       4.4       4.6     -              - -          -        ---                                        -
Oaedling. &  l..t-ag                           7.0      -         7.0    -         -                 1.0      -.         1.0       1.8      -         1.9     1.8      -         1.0     1.8       -         1.0     0.6       -        0.6               -----
F-rttliaee   & Applicat-os                     2.0      0.7       2.7     -        -         -       0.3       0.1      0.4        0.5      0.2       0.7     0.5       0.       0.7     0.5       0.7       0.7     0.2                n 1.2    -        -----
Pam  Accea-  Roads                            13.0      5.8      19.3     0.1      0.3       1.0     6.8       2.9      9.17       6.0      2.6       8.6     -        -         -       -         -             -             --       -        -        -                    ---
tab-tota1                               53.1     82.4    135.0      3.9     60.5      64.3   1-2 .2      8.6     20.08      15.4      6.9    272 .3   94. 7      06. 9    1-0.1    9§.4     -5.3     1-4.7     3.1      0.2       3.3--
Sedl-agablatt0.8                                        -         0.8     -        -.                                              0.2      -         0.2     0.2       -        0.2     0.2       -        0.2      0.2       -        0.2                                          
proil e     & Appl-otioo                     4.7       1.0      5 . 7                                                            0.4      -         0.4     0.7       0.2      0.9     0.9       0.2       1.1     0.9       0.2       1.1     0.9       0.2       1.1       0.9        0.2        1.1
Pestitid.. & Applicatios                       1.5      6.0       7.0 5                                                            0.1      0.4       0.5     0.2       0.8      1.0     0.3       0.2       0.5     0.3       1.2       1.5     0.1       1.2      1.5        0.3        1.2        1.5
Foe  fl-oi-tey Oreeaiog Coat                   2.4      -         7.4     -        -         -       -         -        -          0.2      -         0.2     0.3      -         0.3     0.4       -         0.4     0.5       -        0.5      0.5      -         8.. 5    5            -          0.5
Foieg, Weed-eg & Oalaio6                   23.9       -       23.9                                                               2           .9 -  2.9      3.8      -         3.8     4.0      -         4.0     4.4       -         4.4     4.4       -         4.4       4.4        Z          4.4
Sab-total                              T31.3      7.0     40.                -         -                 -        -            8      0.4      T. 2     X7      T.         . .0 1.7.4                 7.       .         .         . 1.4             .       15         61         1.4       Y77
Baoldioga6& Focot-r                               3.0      0.3      3.3      3.9      0.3       3.3     -                                                                                                    --- -  - - - - - - - -        -       -         -----
A.d-o Via..al                                  -        0.3       0.3     -         0.3      0.3     -         -                                                                                                                                                                     
Vehb-c.. aedo.o-  Cycl..                       0.1      2.7       2.8     0.3       7.7      2.8                                                                                                     - - - - - - - - - - -                                                                      
Vrhicle   MaRt-  CYcle Roonitg Coat            3.3      2.0       5.3     -         -        -       0.3       0.2      0.5        0.0      0.3       0.8     0.5       0.1      0.8      0.       0.3       0.9     0.5       0.1       0.8     0.5       0.3      0.8        0.5        0.3        0.8
Oemoaateatione (aed Fam-' Tea...iog)        2 .7     -         2.7     0.1                0.1     0.6       -        0.6        0.6      -         0.6     0.6      -         0.6    0.6        -        0.6      -         -        -        -        -         ----
G.,t...tom  P- .....l                           22.4       -       22.4      1.4      -         1.4     3.0      -         3.0        1.0      -        3.0      3.0      _          1.0    3.0       -        3.0      3.11      -        3.0      3.0      -         3.0        3.8o                  3.0
Sob-total                               31.35     5.3     36K.8     i7       I.3       8.1I    3.9       0.2      4.1        4.1      0.3       4.4     0.1       0.3      4.4     4.1      06.3      -4.4    3S.5      06.3       3.8     3.5       0.3      3.8        3. 5       0.38
T,teco    Teii0.7                                    0.9      1.1      -        0.2      0.2      0.1      0.4       0.5       0.1       0.1      0.3               -j        01      -                           -        -         -        -                        
Tra-i.g of T-at-t Oei-rr  4 M0h.                 4.6       4.9      9.0      1.3      3.4      4.7      1.2      0.0       7.0        1.2      0.6      1.8      0.       0.        1.0     -         .                                                                                            
Coooltaots
-raojg on Proje-t tv-laatio
T-h-q...        ~0.2                      0.6      0.0      0.1      0.3       0.4     0.1       0.3      0.4        -        -         -       -        -         -       -                  -        -         -        --                          ---
tlotit_tieg 008 OEaloaios                      1.0       1.8      2.8     -         0.2      0.7     0.4       0.6       1.0       0.2       0.2      0.4     0.4       0.0      1.2                                                             -         ---.                                  
S.t.t.1a                                  -6 .0      0.2     14 .2   01.4       4.1I    -5.5      1 .8     2.1         9       4.0       0. 3     4. X              W07 T    4.4 
Proje-  Adooioiotrtiq.                                                                                                                  4.0      -         0.0     4.0       -        4.0      4.0      -         4.0     4.0       -         4.0     4.0       -        4.0        4.0o                  4.0
Ppeoono 129.4                                              -       29.4      1.4      -         1.4     4.0      -         4.0       0.3       0.2      0.0      0.3      0.2       0.5     0.3       02       0.5      0.3      0,2       0.5      0.3      0,2       0.5        0.3        0.2        0.5
Iqcmo       prtiog Cost                2.3       5.1      7.4     0.0       3.7      3.9      0.3      0.2       0.5       -         -        -       -         -         -       -         -                                    .-  -    -         -              -                          -
OOOtc  Rleato, Sppli-. & Eqoip-tet               0.2       -        0.2      0.0      -         0.1     0.1       -        0.1            -                           -                           -       - - --                                                                                   
qob-totl                                31.9      5.1      37.0     1.7       3.7      5.4     4,j4      0.2      4.6        4.3      0.2       4.5     4.3       0.2      4.5    4.3        0.2       4.5     4.3       0.2       4.5     4.3       0.2      4.5         4.3       0.2        4.
Cotal Soo-  C-a                        217.9   218.3    436.2   12.4        03.3      95.7   27.1       34.0     61.9       15.4      10.4     45.0    34.4      21.2     55.6    35.6    10.5        46.1    20.9      50.5      19.4    22.5       3.0      26.3       21.6        3.8      25.4
Coettorce
phya...ol 2/                                     2.8       1.5      4.3      0.1      0.1      0.2      1.1      0.5       1.6        0.9      0.4      1.3      0.3      0.2       0.5     0.4       0.3      0.7      -         -        -        -        -         -          -          -          -
F.p-ctod l'-c  Itctaa   3/                      86.5      4 6. 4   133.9    0.6       3.2       3.8     3.2      L.1       7          0.1      2,      10.3   11.2        6k.2     17.3    15.4       3.9     11.3    15.7      72.4      38.1    15.0        2.0     17.0       17.3        2.3       19.6
S.btotl                                  9. 3    47.9   3T.27   0T.7         3.3       4.0     4.31      4.8      9.         9.0      2f      TiCI   ITT5         6.3     07.8    15.8  ~4.1          20.0    15.       22.4      101     1.          .        1.         13        23        1.
G-ad Total                             307.2    266.2   573.4    13.1       86.6      99.1    31.4      39o 6    71 0       46.4      0 3.0    51.  43.             1     7.        14      147       6.        46      7.        17.5    31.        58       4.         389         61        45.0
I/  STeh cot..    tt   foe the secod ph..e of tht d-nlop-en  p-ara   is omly p itar.Tefit-l  -ot
a.timato  -.Id, dep-da ne   sltaia. ..OpO 0  the estead ph.s. pe-j-c.
2/  At 152  -o r-d.
3/Ptojrcted    tao   nolioesao _.ra.com1_1                      e  O.n t.t 92 is 19821 aed 81 Per y-a  therefter;
lot the  f   -orgeco.po...., the c--epodiag  -atea  asot to '80 is 1982, 72 8Cr yea  darieg 1983-851  .sd
60 per ya   tharsftm..
Pebr--r 1982



50                                         Annex 1
Table T-6
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
List and Cost of Equipment To Be Supplied Under the Project 1!
Item                                    Quantity          Unit Cost                   Tota Cost
Base Cost Spares Total Base Cost Spares Total
…----(SL '000)…-6---------------__
Derocking Equipment
Field Crops
Front Loader, Wheeled (140-150 hp)  27            360        70    430      9,720   1,890   11,610
Fruit Trees
Dozer (300 hp)                         53         800       160    960    42,400   8,480   50,880
Dozer With Rake & Draw Bar (200 hp)  9            600       120    720      5,400   1,080    6,480
Tractor-Trailer (40-Ton)                2         600       120    720      1,200      240    1,440
Rock Rakes                             16          68        14     82                 220  1, 310
Sub-Total                                                         59,810  11,910   71,720
Farm Machinery 2/
Field Crops
Tractor, Wheeled (65-75 Ob hp)        243 (96)    50         10     60    12,150   2,430   14,500
Plough Two-Way                        121 (48)    20          4     24      2,420      480    2,900
Chisel, H.0 (1.8m)                    121 (48)    11          2     13      1,330      250    1,580
Disc Harrow (2.7m)                    243 (96)    15          3     18      3,640      730    4,370
Seed & Fertilizer Drill (4.3m)         81 (32)    12          2     24        970      160    1,130
Sprayer (1,000 liters)                 81 (32)    14          3     17      1,140      250    1,390
Trailers                              243 (96)    14          1     15      3,400      250    3,650
Fertilizer Spreader                    81 (32)      8         1      9        650       80       730
Grain Combines (4.9m)                  22 ( 9)   275         55    330      6,040   1,200    7,240
Sub-Total                                                         31,740   5,830   37,570
Fruit Trees
Tractor, Wheeled (35-45 Ob hp-4 WD) 86             40         8     50      3,440      690    4,130
Plough Two-Way                         86          14         3     18      1,200      260    1,460
Disc Harrow (1.3 m)                    86           8         1.    10        690       90       780
Sprayer (500 titers)                   43           9         1     11        390       40      430
Trailers                               86          14         2     16      1,200      170    1,370
Sprayer, Manual Move                   86           4         1      5        340       90      430
Sub-Total                                                          7,260   1,340    8,600
Extension
Personnel Transport                      57          40         2     42      2,280      114    2,394
Mobil Movie Vans                          2          40         2     42         80        4        84
Motor Cycles                             68           3         -       3       204        -       204
Sub-Total                                                          2,564      118    2,682
Project Administration
Personnel Vehicles                       27          40         2     42      1,080       54    1,134
Pick-Ups                                  2          40         2     42         80        4        84
Trailers (oil)                            2         200        40    240        400       80       480
Caravans                                  5          30         6     36        180       36       216
Mobile Workshops                          2         250        50    300        500      100       600
Trucks (Seedling Transport)               4         200        40    240        800      160       960
Trailers, fuel                           12          20         2     22        240       24       264
Sub-Total                                                          3,280      458    3,738
Grand Total                                                     104 654  19_656  124_ 310
(USt 'Million)                                                   (26.5)   (5.0)   (31.5)
l/ Based on CIF prices and excluding contingencies. Errors in total cost are due to rounding.
2/ The kinds shown here are only indicative. Farmers' preferences would be taken into account
while preparing the tender documents. Equipment shown in brackets are the portions of the
total quantity which would procured for the first year of Phase II.
November 1981



-51 -
ANNEX I
Table T-7
SYRIA
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Fstimate
Grand Total                   1982                      1983                       1984                      1985
Item                        Lecal  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Poreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Iocal  Foreign  TrIol
------------------------------------------------------- (Sl. Milli..) ----------------__--________________________-
Field Crop Develop-ent
Derocking
Equipme-t                                     0.6     11.6     12.2    0.6      11.6      12.2     -        -        -
Eqoipment Operating Cost                      4.6      -        4.6     -        -         -       1.0      -         1.0     1.8      -        1.8     1.8      -        1.P
Parm Machinery                                  1.8    37.5    39.3       -         -        -       1.1    22.5    23.6        -        -        -       0.7     15.0    15.7
Tncremeetal Parn Machirery Operating Cost 7.0            0.6      7.6    -          -        -       1.4      0.1       1.5    2.4       0.2      7.6     1.2      0.3       3.5
Incremental Inputs
FeTtllizers                                   3.7      1.5      5.2    -          -        -       0.7      0.3       1.0     1.3      0.5      1.8     1.7      0.7      7.4
lerb-cides and Pesticides                     -        0.6      0.6     -         -        -       -        0.1      0.1    -          0.2      0.2    -         0.3      0.3
Seeds & Baga                                  1.5      -        1.5    -         -         -       0.3      -        0.3     0.5       -        0.5    0.7       -        0.7
Farn Access Roads                               2.9      3.0       5.9    0.1       0.1      0.2    0.3       0.7       1.0    0.3       0.7      1.0    2.?        I.5      1.7
Sub-total                              22.1    54.8    76.9    0.7         11.7     12.4    4.8    23.7       28.5    6.3        1.'      7.9   10.3      1 78    28.1
Frait Tree DevElopment
Estabi ish-eet
l.and Preparatioc Equipnent                   3.1    60.2      63.3     3,1     60.2      63.2    -         -        -       -         -        -       -        -        -
Equip-ent Operating Cost                     17.6      1.8    19.4      -        -         -       3.8      0.4      4.2     6.9      0.7       7.6     6.9      0.7      7.6
Farm Machinery                                0.5      8.6      9.1     -        -         -       0,3      5.2      5.5    0.2        ?.4      3.6     -        -        -
Seedlings 6 Planting                         4.6       -        4.6     -        -         -       1,0      -        1.0     1.8      -         1.8     1.8      -        1.8
Fertili-zer  & Application                    1.3      0.5      1.8    -         -         -       0.3      0.1      0.4     0.9       0.         7 0.  O 0.5    0.3      0.7
Farn Access Roado                            13.5      5.8    19.3    0.7        0.3       1.0    6.8       2.9      9.7     6.0       2.6      8.6     -        -        -
Sob-total                              40.6    76.9   117.5    3.8        60.5    64.3   1T.2         8.6     70.8    15 4       6.9    22.3      9.2      0.9     10f.1
Haintenance
Seedlings 6 Plantong                         0.4       -        0.4                                                                             O _  _  _  _  _  0.2  -  0.?    0.2  -  0.2
Fertili-ers & Application                     1.1      0.2      1.3    -          -        -       _        -        -        0.4      -        0.4    0.7       0.2       0,9
Pesticides & Application                      0.3      l.2      1.5    -         -         -       -        -        -       0.1       0.4      0.5     0.2      0.8       1.0
Farm Machinery Operating Cost                 0.5      -        0.5    -         -         -       -        -        -       0.2       -        0.2    0.3       -        n,3
Prueing, Weeding & Watering                   6.7      -        6.7    -         -        _       _         _        _       2.9       -        42-     7.8      -        3.8
Sob-total                               9.0      1.4     10.4                               ..        -         -       3.8      0.4      4.2     5.2       1.0      6.2
Exte-nisn
Rsildings 6 PFurit-re                           3.0      0.3      3.3    3.0        0.3      3.3                                    -                                        -
Fquipment
Audio Visual                                  -        0.3      0.3     -        0.3       0.3    -         _        _       _
Vehicles and motor Cycles                    0.1       2.7      2.8     0.1      2.7       2.8    -         -        -       -         -        -       -        -        -
Vehidl. & Motor Cycle R-nsing Cost            1.3      0.8      2.1     -        -         -       0.3      0.2      0.5    0.5        0.3      0.8     0.5      0.3       0.8
Denonst-tions                                   2.1      -        2.1      0.3      -        0.3    0.6        -        0.6    0.6       -        0.6     0.6       -        0,6
Este,sss-  Pecsonlm1                           10.4      -       10.4      1.4      -        1.4     3.0      -         3.0     3.0      -        3.0     3.0      -         3.0
Sab-total                              16.9      4.1    21.0      4.8       3.3     86.1    70        0.2    717T    4.1         70.3     4.4    4.1       70.3      4.4
Techn-sal Assistance
Extenusio  Training                             0.2      0.9       1.1    -         0.2      0.2     0.1      0.4       0.5    0.1       0.2      0.3     -         0.1      0.1
Tralsing of Tractor Dri-ers & Mechanics   4.6            4.9      9.5      1.3      3.4      4.7     1.2      0.8       2.0     1.2      0.6       1.8    0.9       0.1      1,0
Consultants
Training on Proj. Easloation Techniques 0.2            0.6      0.8    0.1       0.3       0.4   Ol        0.3      0.4      -        -        -       -        -         -
Munstcr-og & Evaluation                       1.0      1.8      2.8     -         0.2      0.2     0.4      0.6       1.0    0.2       0.2      0.4     0.4      0.8       1,7
Slb-total                               6.0      8S.2    14.2     1.4      4.1       5.5    1.6       2.1       3.9     1.5      1.O      2.5     1.3       -.0      7.7
Project Administration
personnel                                      13.4      -       13.4      1.4      -        1.4    4.0       -         4.0     4.0      -        4.0     4.0      -         4.0
Equipment 6 Operating Coat                      1.1      4.3      5.4    0.2        3.7      3.9     0.3      0.2      Q.S      0.3      0.2      0.5     0.3      0.2       O,s
Office Rental, Supplies 6 Equipment             0.2      -        0.2      0.1      -        0.1    0.1       -         0       -        -        -       -         -
Sub-total                              1-4.7     4.3     19.0     1.7       3.7      5.4    4,4       0.2       4.6    4.3       0.2      4.5     4.3      0.2       4.5
Total Base Cost                       109.3   149.7   259.0   12.4    83.3          95.7   27.1      34.8      61.9   35.4      10.4    45.8   34.4    71.2         55.6
Cont-cg-nnios
Physical 1/                                     2.4      1.2       3.6     0.1      0.1      0.2     1.1       0.5      1.9     0.9      0.4       1.3    0.3    0.         n.5
F.pected Price Increase 2/                     23.1     15.8     38.9    0.6        3.2      3.8     3,2      4.3       7.5    8.1       2.2     10.3   11.2        6.1     17.3
lSob-total                             25.5     17.0    42.5    0.7         3.3      4.0     4.3      4.8       93,.    9.0      7.6     11.6   11.5       6.3      17f.8
Crand Total                           134.8   166.7   301.5   13.1    86.6    99.7    31.4           39.6      71.0   44.4      13.0     57.4   45.9    27.5        73.4
1/  At 15% on roads.
9             2/  Projected rates of annual increases on local conponent amount to 9% in 1962; and 8Y per yTer thereafter; for the
foreign component, the corresponding eates amon-t to 871 in 1982, 7% per rear - dring 1983-85,
February 1982



- 52 -
ANNEX I
Table T-8
SYRIA
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
of Bank Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter              Cumulative Disbursement
US$ Million      Percent
1983
December 31, 1982                    5.7           26
March 31, 1983                       8.4           38
June 30, 1983                        8.4           38
1984
September 30, 1983                  11.9           54
December 31, 1983                   11.9           54
Marci' 31, 1984                     12.8           58
June 30, 1984                       12.8           58
1985
September 30, 1984                  13.2           60
December 31, 1984                   13.9           63
March 31, 1985                      14.3           65
June 30, 1985                       14.5           66
1986
September 30, 1985                  15.2           69
December 31, 1985                   19.6           89
March 31, 1986                      21.3           97
June 30, 1986                       22.0          100
February 1982



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Table T-9
SYRIA
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Estimated Local Staffing Requirements for Administration 1/
Expertise                               Damascus   Deraa      Sweida   Total
----------(Persons)--------------
Managers of Cooraination Implementation Units  2            2         2         6
Team Leaders
Fruit Trees                                     1         1         1        3
Field Crops, Roads, Training                    1         1         1        3
Extension                                      -          2         2        4
Machinery                                       -         1         1        2
Aaministrative Secretary                          2          1        1         4
Accountant                                        1          1        1         3
Purchaser (operating materials)                   -         1         1        2
Spare Parts Clerk                                 1         5         5        11
Drivers of Vehicles/Trucks                        5        17        17       39
Mechanics (Mobile Workshops)                      -         2         2        4
Assistant Mechanics                               -         2         2        4
Heavy Machinery Operators (Derocking)             -        43        43       86
Assistant Heavy Machinery Operators               -        43        43       86
Guards                                            -         2         2        4
Agriculturists/Horticulturists                    -         6         6        12
Assistant Agriculturists/Horticulturists          -         13       13       26
Financial Anaiysts                                -         4         4        8
Total                                      13        147       147      307
1/   These exclude other experts who would also participate in implementation
such as extension agents (and SMS), staff of GOFM.
February 1982



- 54 -
ANNEX I
Table T-10
SYRIA
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Financial and Economic Prices Used for Analysis
ITEM                                         PRICE (SL/ton)
Field Crops:
Hard wheat (Hourani) 1/                    1,120
Barley                                       720
Sorghum                                      900
Lentils                                    1,200
Chickpeas                                  2,500
Sesame                                     5,500
Vetches                                      900
Watermelon                                   250
Straw
Cereals                                   300
Others                                    400
Fruit Trees:
Olives (table)                             3,500-5,000
Almonds (dry, unshelled)                   2,500-3,100
Apples                                     2,400-3,100
Pears                                      3,000-3,450
Cherries                                   3,000-5,500
Grapes                                     1,750-2,250
Chemical Fertilizers:
Urea (46%)                                 1,265
N (26%)                                      762
P (46%)                                    1,200
K (50%)                                    1,060
Labor                                         50 SL/day
Seedlings                                   SL/piece
Apples                                     1.50
Pears                                      2.25
Cherries                                   2.25
Grapes (grafted)                           0.50
Olives                                     3.00
Almonds                                    0.25
I/ The financial price for this commodity is lower than the
price shown here by about 10%.
November 1981



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
SYRIA
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in
Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
A-1.     FAO/CP.  Draft Report of the Syria Hauran Agricultural Development
Project Preparation Mission. October 6, 1978.
A-2.     FAO/CP.  Draft Report of the Syria South Agricultural Development
Project Reconnaisance Mission. February 10, 1978.
A-3.     IBRD.  Training for Mechanization Aspects of the Project.  May 1981.
A-4.     IBRD.  Agricultural Aspects of the Fruit Tree Component of the
Project. May 1981.
A-5.     IBRD.  Farm Mechanization Aspects of the project.  May 1981.
A-6.     IBRD.  Land Improvement Part of the Project.  May 1981.
A-7.     IBRD.  Proposed Extension Program.  May 1981.
A-8.     IBRD.  Proposed Farm Roads.  May 1981.
B. Selected Working Documents
B-1.     Cropping pattern by Provinces and Zones.
B-2.     Yield by Crops, Provinces, and Zones.
B-3.     Weighted Average of Yields for Entire project.
B-4 - B-12. Output and Production Costs.
B-13 - B-28. Financial Analysis of Farm Models for Field Crops.
B-29 - B-35. Financial Analysis of Farm Models for Fruit Trees.
B-36.    Development of Outputs of Field Crops.
B-37.    Development of Outputs of Fruit Trees.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
B-38.    Sample Derivations of Economic Prices.
B-39.    Economic Cost and benefit Streams of the Development Program.
B-40.    Recommended Application of Fertilizers.
B-41.    Data on the Cooperative Agricultural Bank.
B-42.    Sub-Loan Administration Costs and Incomes.
B-43.    On-Lending
.



- 57 -
SYRIA
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMVi
TIMETABLE FOR KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
ITEM                                       1981                      1982                     1983                      1984                      1985
Project Administration                                                             _                            i      
Staff Recruitment
Damascus Project Coordination Unit                  _                                                             I
Dersaa Project Implementation Unit                  _         low
Sweida Project Implementation Unit_                             I=
Procurement of Equiprent
Preparation of Tenders
Processing of Tenders
Delivery_                                                                                                                                                i                         |
Construction of Farm Access Roads
Fruit Tree Areas
Fieid Crop Areas
Procurement of Derocking Equipment                           |            j7i
Preparation of Tenders
Processing of Tenders
Delvery
Procurement of Farm Machinery
Preparation of Tenders
Processing of Tenders
Delvery                                                                 i
Building-up of Extension
Construction of Buildings                                                                   IhEII                                       I     I IEI 
Procurement of Vehicles                                                                        i
Pr.par.t,on of Tenders                                                                         i                                     |             
Processing of Tenders                                    |
Delivery lPieces)
Procurement of Motorcycles
Procurement of Audio-Visual Equipment
Recrultment of Extensionists
Foreign Training of Extensionists                          i
Training of Tractor/Combine Operations and Mechanics
Tractor and Combine Operations
Mechanics
Derocking
Fruit Tree Areas                                .||
Field Crop Areas                                                                                                I     ii                      I
._____________________                         _Vr______                                                                                                     _                  k 22_79
World Bar,k- 22879



- 58 -
SYRIA
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMi
ORGANIGRAM OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
project Steering Committee
'I
State Planning Commission     | 4  -    t--       N |  Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform     - _     _       Cooperative Agricultural Bank (CAB)
I                    l                                  +     -                  J                .I  .
Studies     i                 l                       Deputy Minister of MAAR        l
General Organization for  * j      D.rectorate of Agricultural Affairs]                 Directorate of Extension
Farm Machinery
!                                  Project Coordination Unit    4 )-        Project Coordination Unit - Extension
l                             Division of      Division of Fieid Crops,
i                             Fruit Trees          Roads, Training
I                                                   | Provincial Directorate of MAAR  | -  -  -  -  -  -   -_               CAB Branches
Department of Agrarian Affairs                          Department of Extension
Project On-Lending                      mentation Unit        -  -  -           Project Implementation Unit
Division of        Division of Field Crops,        Division of
l            FruitTres              Roads, Training             Machinery
I       F    Fie   nits               Field Units                Field Units
l       l                                                                                                                                                      -  - 
Derocking, Maintenance of Heavy
I                                                    r  ~ ~ ~-_- b Machinery and Spare Part Stocking  Field Extension Center
l                                                 l________  Project Beneficiaries       l
L  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -                  Machinery Repair and Maintenance         -  -  -                 Farm Machinery Repairl
L               Services                                            and Maintenance Faciliies
World Bank 22880



C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ - -r                      - -7
1                          00=z                               2 ,__0 0 '   l-OG  #;J0   1900  Xa0oO  on-00                   jj-
_o-RISJ              '               SEtUs11f >/ R) 11 ___  j  Stz  T                         U R K. A-  N CA
A    A
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~ .'                                                     0 R-/
i ;J *' X aR y g  r          P                  A   9   0   AI R  A   Q
| tr 'ivk4'\=<<                          2          -                      Ro..          / N.   78 
',4f ,!- ''blot           i t    / 4-
I~~~~~~~~~~A / -                                  0 zl$t ~ltt    Z      X \   ~ -~- ,/   u,,
7/                        9f   A \  r                        -                                           I|R A Q
LEBAN(N)N A      S                             /
!  1  , ; g ' X \~~~~~~/    /                                    r*i 1, ' vo
NYi-t/°b¢-    /     9 -"~'    0       \                           .iSYRIAN  ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
N           '. A 4 / !:.,                                        ..... -X-- r J ........ tl 4 *  N  (i f x fi;~ PROJECT PROVINCES
Z          /
|  /{t  *s    i-t    Xf DEPA              I            A                                                      PP/SOL/IN[CALOPTS
|~~~~~-                -. Al  / 94          /                                 40 L00,; a             * s-Nu
I S \_ y /                z _
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                   X.y'                                                                  FT/P      U         10NFA*//4 



D A 114 A S C U S_____-____                                          I_RD 5752R
fiN                 y-    \                                              SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
/ / _   '/  9 \ X   /1  A M A S 5 U S    _ >  SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.                I   DW                   .> >                          Project Area
i; ciVed   \\\         ';BX/<D    6 X;   2    /S/ot°                                                 W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"--dC- R'd
(4470 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  M ASCUS__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F,,~Tr -
D;~~~~~K              .40f;                       7                 0    AW/                                                  tsF(h2oSO2ns
.--~~~~~~~~~~7  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~       w-
0~~~~~~~~~~~7                                 5                  /    Jht                                    sAD - ; 0           .  0 \A H.,g Osi
|0' /agPl  /\                        /                  I                                     -'   15/      S-
0     0       '4~~~~10T
/ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '
I A~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
770  7  54/97  >~~~,J 0So    R0D0A1N
A IAI'



