Document of
The World Bank                      FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3243-SYR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (As of March 31, 1981)
Currency Unit       =        Syrian Pound (SL)
SL 1.00             =        US$0.253
US$1.00             =        SL 3.95
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Unit                  US Equivalent
1 millimeter (mm)            0.039 inches
1 meter (m)         =        3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)    =        0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)      =        2.47 acres
1 litre (1)         =        0.264 gallons
1 kilogram (kg)     =        2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)  =        2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAB        =       Cooperative Agricultural Bank
GOCPT      =       General Organization for Cereal
Processing and Trade
GOFM       =       General Organization for Farm Machinery
GUP        =       General Union of Peasants
IFAD       =       International Fund for Agricul-tural
Development
MAAR       =       Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform
SPC        =       State Planning Commission
UNDP       =       United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower;           Syrian Arab Republic
Amount:             US$22.0 million equivalent
Terms:              17 years, including a grace period of four years at 11.6
percent per annum.
Project
Description:        The project consists principally of the first phase of a
comprehensive program for the production of field crops and
fruit trees in the provinces of Deraa and Sweida in
southern Syria. The project consists of the following
components: (a) field crop development covering about
25,400 ha, and farm machinery for the first year of the
second phase; (b) fruit tree development covering about
4,600 ha; (c) construction of farm access roads to serve
the project area; (d) strengthening of the extension
service and of the organization for project administration;
and (e) provision of technical assistance. The project is
part of a program which would contribute to the development
of rainfed agriculture in Syria by increasing cultivable
lands and by building the institutional framework for
growth through the expansion of extension services and the
establishment of an organization for project implementation
which could be used as a model in other areas. The project
would also contribute to reducing rural poverty in southern
Syria: project beneficiaries had average per capita
incomes of about $200 in 1980. The main risks associated
with the project relate to its innovative nature as the
project is the first large-scale program in rainfed areas
to be carried out by the Government. To counter the risks,
a strong project implementation structure would be
established, and the extension and other support services
currently provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform would be strengthened.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii 
Project Cost: 1/                       Local        Foreign         Total
(US$ million)
Field Crop Development
Derocking                              1.3           2.9            4.2
Farm Machinery                         0.5           9.5           10.0
Farm Machinery Operating Cost          1.9           0.2            2.1
Inputs (fertilizers, etc.)             1.3           0.5            1.8
Access Roads                           0.7           0.8            1.5
Subtotal                           5.7           13.9           19.6
Fruit Tree Development
Land Development                       5.2          15.7           20.9
Establishment Costs                    3.8           0.5            4.3
Farm Machinery                         0.1           2.2            2.3
Access Roads                           3.4           1.5            4.9
Subtotal                          12.5          19.9            32.4
Extension Development                   4.3           1.0            5.3
Technical Assistance
Extension Training                     -             0.2            0.2
Training of Tractor Drivers &
Mechanics                             1.2           1.2            2.4
Consultant Services                    0.3           0.6            0.9
Subtotal                           1.5           2.0             3.5
Project Administration                  3.7           1.1            4.8
BASE COST                         27.7          37.9            65.6
Contingencies
Physical                               0.6           0.3            0.9
Expected Price Increases               5.8           4.0            9.8
Subtotal                           6.4           4.3            10.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                34.1          42.2            76.3
1/ The project is exempt from payment of import duties and local taxes and
cost estimates exclude them.



- 111 -
Financing Plan:                      Local        Foreign         Total
(US$ million)
Bank Loan                                           22.0           22.0
IFAD                                                18.0           18.0
UNDP                                  -              2.2             2.2
Government Contribution              24.7            -             24.7
CAB Contribution                      9.4            -              9.4
Total                          34.1           42.2           76.3
IBRD FY (Us$ Million)
Estimated Disbursement:         1983       1984      1985      1986
Annual                           8.4        4.4        1.7       7.5
Cumulative                       8.4       12.8      14.5       22.0
Rate of Return:    14 percent
Appraisal Report:  No. 3463-SYR, dated March 12, 1982






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR A
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan of US$22 million equivalent to the Syrian Arab Republic to help finance a
Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project. The loan would have a
term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent
per annum. The project would be jointly financed by the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) which would contribute US$18 million. The
Government is seeking financing from the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) for the foreign exchange cost of the technical assistance component of
the project, estimated at US$2.2 million. The IFAD loan is expected to have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at four percent
per annum. UNDP is expected to provide the funds on a grant basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Development Prospects and Policies:  Report of a
1977 World Bank Mission" (no. 1975a-SYR, dated February 22, 1980) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 3, 1980. This section is
based on that report and on the findings of an economic updating mission which
visited Syria in July 1980, and a brief visit to obtain recent information in
February 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Economic Characteristics and Constraints
3.       Syria is a country of about 8.9 million with urban population now
representing almost one-half of the total. While the Government has made
considerable progress in reducing imbalances in economic and social conditions
between the rural and the urban areas, and between regions, the rural areas
generally continue to have below-average incomes and still have limited access
to social services. The rapid population growth has exerted considerable
pressure and an especially high cost on the economy for the provision of
housing, health care and social services in many urban centers. Syria has
experienced a relatively low unemployment rate (around four percent) in the
recent past, largely as a result of the large number of emigrant workers
(estimated at 450,000 persons), the high employment generation in the
agriculture and government sectors during the 1960s and early 1970s and the
low female participation rate.
4.       Agriculture accounts for about 21 percent of GDP.  The sector engages
about one-third of the labor force and has strong linkages with most of the
industrial activities, trade and transportation. Cotton is the second most
important export earner after petroleum. Water is a scarce resource in the
country and irrigated land comprises a small portion of the cultivated area.
The major schemes for extending irrigated land in the Euphrates and Balikh



- 2 -
Basins have encountered delays and have not yet resulted in any significant
additions to th'  Lrigated acreage.  Agricultural production is dominated by
fluctuations in rainfall. Apart from the slow progress in increasing
irrigated acreage, other factors such as low cropping intensity and inadequate
extension services have contributed to the sluggish growth of output in this
sector.
5.       Syria's industrial development started with the processing of
agricultural products and received an impetus from oil production in the 1960s
and price rises in the early 1970s. It now contributes about 27 percent of
GDP. Syria's industrial strategy has focused largely on import substitution
in consumer goods, and a substantial expansion of resource-based industries,
such as cotton textiles, cement and fertilizers. Despite the large
investments channelled to this sector, the growth performance during the
1970s, especially in the latter years, has been rather poor. Two pervasive
problems have been the long delays in completing projects and frequent
start-up difficulties in plants. In established industries, there is
widespread capacity underutilization due to inadequate planning and
management. As a result, so far only modest success has been achieved with
respect to the import substitution and export promotion objectives for the
sector.
6.       In recent years, relatively broad-based public investment outlays
have taken place concurrent with large expenditures on national security, as
dictated by the unsettled political conditions in the Middle East region.
Growth of national security expenditures has absorbed virtually the entire
increase in the budget in recent years. Subsidies financed directly by the
budget, mainly for basic foodstuffs and petroleum products, also have been a
drain on public sector resources (averaging 9.5 percent of domestic budgetary
revenues between 1975-80), and the economy has become increasingly dependent
on foreign grants for financing budgetary and balance of payments deficits.
Between 1975-80, foreign grants have financed more than 60 percent of
budgetary and about three-fourths of the balance of payments deficits. The
inflow of grants became particularly large after the Baghdad Arab Summit
Conference of 1978 at which several Arab oil exporting countries pledged to
increase their grants to Syria. However, the uncertainty surrounding the
timing and continuation of the aid flows makes it difficult to plan
expenditures well ahead of time and to allocate budgetary funds when needed.
7.       The export base of the Syrian economy is weak and depends heavily on
the petroleum sector. Export earnings from this source, despite a decline in
the volume since 1976, have accounted for about two-thirds of total
merchandise exports during the period 1975-1980. However, the import bill for
light crude oil (needed to blend with domestic crude for refinery input) and
for refined petroleum products has represented a growing share of the oil
export revenues. Thus, by 1980 imports of crude and refined petroleum were
equal to about 80 percent of oil export earnings (as compared to less than 17
percent in 1975) or nearly half of the total merchandise exports. With the
rapid rise in consumption of petroleum products, and unless concerted efforts
at energy conservation are made, or new oil fields are discovered, Syria would
cease to be a net exporter of petroleum by mid-1980s. The development of
domestic gas resources could release some refined products for export.



- 3 -
Effectiveness of Planning and Public Policies
8.       The economy was transformed in the 1960s from an essentially
laissez-faire system to a largely publicly-owned and centrally-regulated one.
Despite implementation difficulties in the First (1961-1965) and Second
(1966-1970) Plans, reflecting mainly the frequent changes in the political
situation and in policy, economic growth during the 1960s was about six
percent per annum. In the 1970s, despite the 1973 war, the rate of growth
approached the eight percent annual target level set by the Third Plan
(1971-1975) compared to nearly six percent per year growth achieved by the
World Development Report sample of middle-income countries. This reflected in
part higher investment levels financed through petroleum export earnings,
boosted by the 1973 petroleum price increase and increased financial resource
availability, from Arab grants following the 1974 Arab Summit Conference in
Rabat. The public sector share in aggregate investment target increased from
63 percent in the First Plan to 70 percent in the Second Plan and 80 percent
in the Third Plan.
9.       The Fourth Five-Year Plan (1976-1980) originally set out ambitious
goals for accelerating the growth of the economy while at the same time
addressing pressing social issues. The investment allocation was several
times the size of that in the preceeding Plan and the public sector aimed at
undertaking 83 percent of the investment program. However, the formulation of
this Plan coincided with the emergence of financial problems in 1976 as a
temporary decline in Arab aid and the impact of the Lebanese Civil War
severely curtailed the availability of resources. Although there was a rise
in the level of investment above the previous Plan, the rate of growth
remained low, particularly in agriculture and industry. During 1975-80,
growth of GDP in real terms averaged 5.7 percent per year, less than one-half
of the Plan target. Public investment, in real terms, reached about 60
percent of the original Plan target, with close to one-half of the total
outlays made in the last two years of the Plan. Investments in irrigation and
agriculture remained stagnant through most of the Plan period and fell
substantially short of the Plan target. Investments in social services
reached a high proportion of planned allocations, but substantial needs
remained in education, health and urban services. Investment in industry was
above the Plan average, but industrial growth was slow as a result of
implementation delays, large cost increases and the concentration on large
projects with long gestation periods. The shortage of skilled manpower was
another major obstacle in the way of efficient implementation of the
investment program. The overall manpower situation was exacerbated by
emigration of trained technicians and skilled labor.
10.      Reflecting the lessons of the Fourth Plan, growth targets in the
Fifth Five-Year Plan (1981-85), recently finalized, are less ambitious than
those set forth in the preceeding Plan. The Plan aims at achieving an annual
rate of growth of 7.7 percent in real terms. The overall investment allocation
amounts to about $26 billion (compared to $13.8 billion in the last Plan), 80
percent of which is by the public sector. The focus of the new Plan has
shifted from heavy physical investments, particularly in industry, to better
utilization of capacity and to the development of human resources. In
addition, export growth of manufactured goods especially those of resource
based industries is a major objective of the Plan in the industrial sector.



- 4 -
The strategy underlying the investment program places particular emphasis on
the completion of projects presently under implementation. The sectoral
strategy stresses the increase in share of commodity-producing sectors in
relation to GDP. The agricultural investment strategy places particular
emphasis on agro-industry, rainfed agriculture and rural development
projects. Self-sufficiency in major domestic food needs remains a major
objective of the Government in this sector. Similarly, to increase access to
social services the plan has raised the share of investment in the social
sector. In the area of economic management, reducing balance of payments and
budgetary deficits, and controlling inflationary pressures remain the priority
objectives of the Government in the next five years.
Recent Economic Developments
11.      The growth of GDP, which as a result of shortfalls in agricultural
and industrial output averaged 4.8 percent per year between 1975-79, increased
to 9.7 percent in 1980. The growth in 1980 was stimulated by a rebound in
agricultural production and the improved performance of the industrial
sector. The growth of output is estimated to have slowed down in 1981 to
around six percent largely as a result of a lower growth rate in agricultural
production. The pressure on resources created in part by the unsettled
political condition of the Region was reflected in the budgetary and balance
of payments situation. The fiscal position of the Government deteriorated
substantially and the budgetary deficit, which was on a declining trend since
1978 and amounted to 15.5 percent of GDP in 1979, increased to nearly 22
percent of GDP in 1980. The increased deficit led to a sizeable increase in
domestic borrowing and liquidity of the economy. Growth in liquidity coupled
with increases in prices of subsidized commodities, particularly petroleum
products, caused a stronger inflationary pressure on domestic prices. The
wholesale and retail price indices increased by 15 and 19 percent respectively
compared to an average of 11 and 8 percent between 1975-79. The balance of
payments was similarly under considerable strain. The increased demand
pressure resulted in a record import bill and widening of the trade deficit to
$2.2 billion (an increase of 31 percent over 1979 and nearly quadrupling the
1975 level). As a result, the balance of payments registered a deficit of
around $0.6 billion, foreign reserves declined substantially, and the Syrian
Pound depreciated sharply in the unofficial market.
12.      To respond to these problems, the Government has introduced a number
of policies and austerity measures designed to rectify the imbalances. In
April 1981, the level of interest rates was raised by about two percentage
points. To reduce the budgetary deficit, domestic prices ot subsidized
petroleum products were increased substantially in 1981 and the growth of
budgetary outlays was curtailed markedly. As a result, the overall budgetary
deficit is expected to have declined to about 17 percent of the estimated
GDP. Current expenditures under the 1982 budget have been held to the 1981
levels in nominal terms, in anticipation of further reduction in s,lbsidy
expenditures. Corrective measures in the external trade sector started with
the introduction of a two-tier exchange system in 1981. Early in ths- year an
official parallel exchange market was established (Syrian Pound 5.4 pe- US
Dollar versus the offical rate of 3.9) with the aim of stimulating expo:ts and
redirecting private sector foreign exchange transactions through the off. cial
channels.  This measure, along with the imposition of import deposits and the



-5-
slowdown in imports has somewhat relieved the foreign exchange pressure and
reduced the balance of payments deficit in absolute terms.
Medium Term Prospects and Capital Requirements
13.      The structural imbalances prevailing in the Syrian economy as it
enters the 1980s, i.e., the sluggish performance of the commodity-producing
sectors, the low savings rate, and the large budgetary and external trade
deficits, coupled with dwindling net exports of the petroleum sector, call for
the introduction of a comprehensive package of policy measures to rapidly
improve the performance of the economy and to restore macro-economic
equilibrium. The authorities are aware of the difficulties facing the economy
and have already taken, or are considering introducing, a number of reform
measures (para. 12). The failure to achieve the objectives of the Fourth Plan
highlighted the need to develop a more effective planning mechanism and to
strengthen the execution capability of the public sector. Although
administrative problems are too deep rooted to allow an early solution,
strengthening administrative capability, particularly in the execution of
programs and projects, needs immediate attention. Similarly, to prevent
critical shortage of manpower and to avoid bottlenecks in project
implementation there is a great need to provide extensive training facilities
for augmenting the supply of skilled manpower, especially in regions where a
large portion of the investment program is to take place.
14.      The medium-term growth potential of the Syrian economy is
encouraging. Notwithstanding the agricultural sector's past performance, the
prospects for output expansion in the sector appear to be substantial provided
that growth strategy focuses on: (i) a shift in the investment priorities in
the sector towards the rehabilitation and upgrading of existing irrigation
facilities, and the identification and development of low cost groundwater
sources; (ii) provision of effective extension services to increase crop
yields and crop intensity; and (iii) greater reliance on price signals to
encourage farmers to base decisions on product prices and input costs, rather
than administrative directives, which are inherently difficult to administer.
In the manufacturing sector, with the expected completion of several major
projects over the next two years, substantial expansion of output should take
place. Particularly rapid growth is expected in cement, fertilizers, and
textile yarns. However, concerted efforts are needed to ensure efficient
management and operation of public enterprises and to realize the full
benefits of heavy public investments in the sector over the past few years.
Initiatives are also urgently needed with respect to export promotion.
15.      Projections, based on relatively favorable external trade
assumptions, indicate that the resource gap may increase from $2 billion in
1980 to about $3.3 billion (current prices) in 1985. Although the projected
gap would decline from 15.5 percent of GDP in 1980 to 13.4 percent in 1985, it
would still remain high, and unless financed by high levels of grants and
concessional loans, the debt service burden would rise to unmanageable levels
in the latter part of this decade.
16.      The projections also suggest that with increased efficiency of
investment and with a more efficient utilization of productive capacity,



- 6 -
particularly in industry, GDP growth of around five percent is attainable over
the next five years, barring a major political upheaval in the area.
Relatively modest growth rates for the agriculture and services sectors are
projected while it is assumed that the industrial sector would grow at a
faster rate, reflecting the past investment efforts and the structural change
needed to maintain viable GDP and employment growth during the next five
years. The import elasticity is assumed to decline substantially. This is in
line with the Fifth Plan's emphasis on judicious management of imports and the
priority of the agricultural sector, which is less import intensive than
industry. The projections also assume that the decline in exports of
petroleum would be more than compensated by the rapid growth of manufactured
goods from their present low base.
External Debt
17.      External public debt at end 1980 amounted to $4.3 billion, of which
55 percent or $2.4 billion was disbursed and outstanding. From the total debt
outstanding 82 percent was owed to bilateral sources, 13 percent to
international organizations, three percent to suppliers' credit and two
percent to financial institutions. West Germany, U.S.S.R., Czechoslovakia and
Bulgaria were the main sources of bilateral loans. Debt outstanding
(disbursed) reached 18 percent of GDP in 1980, compared to 22 percent in
1979. The average terms of external loans contracted during 1975-1980 were
four percent interest and a maturity of 17.4 years with 4.7 years of grace.
The debt service ratio declined to 14.8 percent in 1980 from 17.3 percent in
1979, and is projected to rise to around 20 percent by 1985. The Bank Group's
share in total debt service payment is projected to increase from five percent
in 1980 to 6.5 percent in 1985, and in total public debt outstanding and
disbursed to decline from 11 percent in 1980 to around three percent in 1985.
18.      Syria has followed a cautious external debt policy and the loans
contracted have been on highly concessionary terms. Moreover, the large flow
of transfers from Arab states (notably Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Iraq) has
enabled Syria to incur large trade deficits without recourse to excessive
external borrowings. Subject to continued prudent external debt management,
Syria remains creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
19.      Syria has to date received four IDA credits totalling $48.7 million
and fourteen loans totalling $456.8 million (including one loan of $12.5
million on Third Window terms), net of cancellations. Although Syria is a
member of the Corporation, IFC has made no investments in Syria. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of September 30,
1981, and a summary of the status of projects in execution.
20.      Bank Group assistance to Syria has in the past largely been for the
development of physical and social infrastructure. The growth of public
services to meet the demands of the expanding economy has been supported by
three operations in power, one in telecommunications and three in highways.
Three operations have assisted the development of the water supply systems in
Syria's two major and rapidly-growing cities, Damascus and Aleppo. Bank
participation in these sectors has supported the adoption of consistent and



- 7 -
rational policies and helped introduce important changes by strengthening the
planning and execution capabilities and the operational effectiveness of the
project implementation agencies. A loan for irrigation in FY74 marked the
beginning of our lending in agriculture. The Livestock Development project,
approved in FY77, provides for fundamental improvements in feed and flock
management policy as well as credit to sheep farmers, most of whom are among
Syria's poor nomadic population, with the objective of increasing and
stabilizing incomes in the sheep subsector throughout Syria. In FY78, a loan
was approved to assist the First Education project, which focussed on the
expansion of vocational and technical training and improving the training of
teachers. The Cottonseed Oil Processing project, for which a loan was
approved in FY79, was terminated due to the Government's difficulty in
recruiting the required consultants. The Lower Euphrates Drainage project,
for which a loan was also approved in FY79, is designed to protect valuable
irrigated land from the spread of salinity and to increase agricultural
production. A Second Education Project, which includes vocational education,
agricultural and health technician training and an educational material
production center, was the last project approved by the Executive Directors
(April 1981).
21.      Despite cordial and close relations, Bank activities in Syria have
been hampered by difficulties in establishing a sustained dialogue on economic
policies and by the lack of expeditious action in resolving sectoral and
project issues. The political and military turbulence of the Middle East --
with the consequent drain on Syria's resources and requiring considerable
outside financial support -- have frequently diverted the attention of
policy-makers from grappling with problems of economic management and
development in a concerted manner, and prevented the development of a firm
program of cooperation with the Bank. Nevertheless, a dialogue on economic
issues was initiated in 1977 during the preparation of the Basic Economic
Report (1975a-SYR) and has been resumed since, during discussions on that
report and subsequent economic updating missions. Although working
relationships with most of the Syrian entities dealing with Bank-financed
projects are excellent, weaknesses in decision making and in administrative
efficiency have at times hindered the pace and effectiveness of Bank
operations by delaying the preparation and implementation of projects. Some
problems, such as delays in adjusting telecommunications tariffs to meet
agreed rates of return, have in due course been resolved whereas others (e.g.,
delays in increasing power tariffs and matters relating to procurement) remain
a cause of occasional difficulties. Overall, the impact of Bank assistance,
in areas such as infrastructure and education, has been significant, but
progress in the execution of projects is uneven. Disbursement of credits and
loans was, as of December 31, 1981, about 61 percent of appraisal estimates.
22.      Future lending operations in Syria would continue to support
development in areas where the Government assigns great value to Bank
assistance (such as education) and where sectoral policies permit Bank
financing. In addition, should sectoral and project implementation
constraints be removed, projects under preparation would put a greater
emphasis on the social aspects of development (in water supply and sewerage).
In agriculture, the Bank hopes to support the Government's policy to improve
productivity through investments in low-cost rainfed agriculture and



- 8 -
small-scale irrigation projects. Future operations would aim at substantial
policy and institutional improvements, especially in those sectors in which
the Bank has not been previously involved; they would, therefore, include
significant technical assistance and training components to achieve these
objectives.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agriculture
23.      Agriculture in Syria accounts for about 21 percent of GDP and employs
about one-third of the labor force, underscoring the importance of the sector
in the economy. Syria covers about 18.5 million ha, of which only about six
million ha are cultivable. Of these, about 550,000 ha are under irrigation
and the remainder are cultivated under rainfed conditions with about 1.8
million ha left fallow (unplanted). Syria has a Mediterranean climate with
hot dry summers and cool rainy winters. Rainfall, which is a determining
factor in Syrian agricultural development, ranges from over 500 mm in the
western coastal regions and the north, to under 250 mm in some areas in the
south and east of the country. However, rainfall is unevenly distributed in
all parts of the country. The availability of water is the most important
factor in the growth of the agricultural sector, and the country is divided
into five zones based on the average annual rainfall. Zones I and II, with
average rainfall of 250 mm and above, have the most potential for rainfed
agricultural development. The other zones are largely arid and rainfed
agriculture is generally not feasible. About three-fourths of the
agricultural production is accounted for by crops and the remainder by
livestock. Among the main crops in Syria are wheat (1.6 million ha), barley
(1.2 million ha), fruit trees (500,000 ha), seed legumes (250,000 ha), cotton
(170,000 ha) and vegetables (150,000 ha). Livestock in Syria is dominated by
sheep (7.2 million head) followed by goats (one million head) and cattle
(700,000 head). Poultry is also an important component of the animal
subsector. Since 1958, the bulk of the agricultural land has been distributed
to private farmers through an agrarian reform program. Virtually all
agricultural output is now produced by small private farmers.
24.      During the mid-sixties to mid-seventies, agricultural production grew
by less than two percent per year. The sluggish growth of agricultural output
has resulted in mounting food imports and widening deficits in the
agricultural balance of trade: food imports increased from about $130 million
in 1971 to about $380 million in 1979.
25.      Growth of the agricultural sector has been constrained by water
scarcity, poor farm management practices, and inadequate institutional and
policy support. However, there is potential for increasing agricultural
production by expanding areas under irrigation, raising productivity of
presently-irrigated lands and rainfed areas, and improving production of
livestock, particularly sheep and poultry. Although there is scope to expand
irrigated agriculture, especially in the Euphrates Basin, the Government has
indicated its intention to emphasize in the medium-term the completion of
ongoing large-scale projects, which have encountered implementation
difficulties, rather than begin new ones. Even though irrigated agriculture
has potential, most agricultural output is expected to be produced in rainfed



- 9 -
areas. The productivity of presently-cultivated rainfed lands can be improved
through yield increases resulting from improved farm management practices and
increased mechanization. Production can also be increased by intensifying
cultivation through elimination and/or reduction of fallow. There is also
good potential to expand production of fruits, particularly in the higher
elevations where there is a good supply of soil moisture. Output of the
livestock subsector can also be increased through better animal husbandry and
by expanding production into the large steppe area which is not suitable for
crop production.
Agricultural Sector Issues
26.      Water shortage (surface and ground) constitutes a major constraint to
increased agricultural production. Most of the rainfed areas in Syria have
low and uneven distribution of rainfall resulting in low yields due to
exhaustion of soil moisture in mid-spring to early summer, the normal
flowering and grain-formation periods. Effective water management, which is
not practiced now, is thus an important element in improved sectoral
performance. Traditional farming methods have adversely affected production.
Farmers do not practice adequate and timely seedbed preparation techniques
which results in poor quality stands; fertilizers and herbicides are not
widely utilized, frequently because the farmers lack funds and are reluctant
to risk investments given the uncertainty of rainfall; weed control is not
properly practiced, with weeds absorbing much of the scarce water available;
much land is traditionally left fallow, resulting in an underutilization of
cultivable land. The expansion of the extension service under the proposed
project would support the Government's efforts to modernize agricultural
practices.
27.      Weak institutional support, particularly from the extension and
research services, has contributed to the limited progress in improving
agricultural practices. A modern extension service is comparatively new in
Syria. Extension is carried out by the Directorate of Extension in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR). At present, there are
insufficient numbers of trained personnel and a shortage of farm demonstration
tools and vehicles. Contacts with farmers are limited. To remedy this
situation, under the current Five-Year Plan, the Government plans to expand
the extension service by establishing 600 extension centers throughout the
country. The proposed project would finance 17 of these centers.
28.      Research programs are the responsibility of the Scientific
Directorate of Agricultural Research in MAAR. They are being supported by the
International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA) and the
Arabic Center for Studies of Arid Zones and Dryland (ACSAD). There are three
research stations in the project area. The results of experiments which have
been conducted in these stations, and which have been successfully applied by
farmers in the region, would be applied under the proposed project. There is
potential for improving the research effort, although this is not critical to
the success of the proposed project. Possible areas of improvement include
development of varieties which are adapted to mechanical harvesting, and
others which are resistent to low soil moisture and to diseases. The efforts



- 10 -
of the various research agencies would need to be coordinated to use
efficiently the limited resources available. The Government realizes this
need, and is taking steps to ensure adequate coordination. The proposed
project would promote communication between researchers and the farming
community through the extension service. This would ensure that farmers'
needs are taken into account in designing research experiments.
29.      Sector policies have attempted to regulate production, prices and the
allocation of investment resources. Law Number 14 of 1975 provides for annual
agricultural production plans which are prepared by MAAR within the framework
of the National Five Year Plan. The annual plans specify land use, cropping
schemes and cultivation practices to meet specified production targets. The
Ministry has the responsibility of licensing farmers to carry out the yearly
plans, and is empowered to apply penalties for non-compliance (i.e., possible
jail sentences and fines, loss of crops produced in violation of the plan) and
incentives (i.e., favorable prices for inputs and outputs, and access to
credit from the Cooperative Agricultural Bank). However, because of the
difficulty of monitoring individual farmer's activities, the extent to which
the producers follow the prescribed production patterns is uncertain. In
addition to regulating production, the Government has kept prices of key
agricultural products controlled at levels lower than international prices of
comparable commodities, and subsidizes important inputs such as fertilizers.
The Government has recently begun to change this policy (para. 31).
30.      The Government has also controlled the allocation of investment
resources. However, it has not been successful in effectively planning and
preparing specific investment projects. In addition, there has not been a
relationship between the proposed investments and the growth targets of the
sector. About 30 percent of public investment during the past decade was
allocated to agriculture, but a large share of this investment was for large
irrigation projects. These projects were beset with cost overruns and
technical problems and have not had the desired effect. On the other hand,
investments in the rainfed agriculture sector, which has considerable
potential, were relatively small. The above-referred policy issues are now
being addressed by the Government (see below).
Government Strategy in Agriculture
31.      The Government's development strategy in agriculture is focussed on
attaining self-sufficiency in basic foods, reducing the burden of food imports
on the balance of payments and promoting equitable income distribution. In
the previous Development Plans, high priority was given to irrigation projects
in pursuing this objective. The new Five-Year Plan (1981-85) gives much
greater emphasis to investments and productivity improvements in rainfed
cultivation. It also places emphasis on expanding and strengthening extension
and other support services to farmers, and in thorough project planning and
preparation. In this connection, a large government team was assigned to the
preparation of the proposed project and considerable training in project
planning and evaluation techniques was provided by the Bank in the course of
project preparation and appraisal. In addition, the Government has increased
agricultural prices and these are much closer now to international levels of
comparable commodities, and has begun reducing subsidies on key inputs such as
fertilizers.



- 11 -
32.      The Government fully recognizes the importance of adjusting its
agricultural policies and intends to conduct a study on interest rates,
prices, and subsidies. The Bank has reviewed with the Government the terms of
reference for the study. The Government intends to complete the study by June
30, 1984, and the results and recommendations of the study would be sent to
the Bank for review.
Agricultural Credit
33.      The bulk of institutional finance for agriculture is provided by the
Government-owned Cooperative Agricultural Bank (CAB), which was established in
1970 as the channel for financing agriculture. Applications by private
farmers for medium- and long-term loans are screened by local committees which
check for land ownership, collateral and farmer compliance with the annual
production plan. There is no project appraisal. Prevailing interest rates
for farm machinery loans are four percent for cooperatives and five and
one-half percent for private farmers while the rates for fruit tree
development are two percent and three percent, respectively. The interest
rate differential charged by CAB between cooperatives and private farmers
provides the cooperatives with a margin to cover services they provide
(basically marketing and sale of inputs). Interest rates on other
agricultural loans range up to 7.5 percent per annum. In the central planning
system of Syria, most major investment decisions are made by the Government
and interest rates play a limited role in this decision process. CAB also has
important functions in the storage and distribution of major agricultural
inputs, such as fertilizers, on which it receives commissions. The Government
protects CAB from major risks, and the institution has never written off any
loans.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
34.      The Bank's lending strategy is to finance projects which help the
Government attain its objectives of increased production and improving the
standard of living of the rural population. To this end, the Bank has in the
past lent for four agricultural projects; two in the irrigation sub-sector --
Balikh Irrigation (FY74) and Lower Euphrates Drainage (FY78) -- one for
Livestock Development (FY77) and one for Cottonseed Oil Processing (FY79).
The Balikh Project has experienced technical difficulties due to the presence
of gypsum in the soil, weak project planning and management and increased
costs. The technical difficulties and higher than expected inflation led to
cost increases. The technical difficulties have been resolved, and project
planning and management improved. The Bank is discussing with the Government
the latter's proposal to rephase the project. The Loan for cottonseed
development was terminated at the request of the Government, which was unable
to comply with requirements regarding the recruitment of design consultants.
After initial delays, the Lower Euphrates and Livestock projects have
proceeded satisfactorily.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.      The project was prepared by FAO/CP and the Government.  An FAO/CP
project identification mission visited Syria in December 1977 and a
preparation mission in June/July 1978. The project was appraised in March
/April 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from February 11 to
18, 1982. The Syrian delegation was led by Mr. Abdul Kader Nayal, Director of
Planning for Economic, Scientific and Technical Relations of the State
Planning Commission. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Southern Regional
Agricultural Development Project" (No. 3463-SYR) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.  The main features of the project are
given in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report and in
Annex III; maps showing the project area are also attached.
36.      The project consists principally of the first four-year phase of an
eight-year agricultural development program for the two southern provinces of
Deraa and Sweida. The program, which would be carried out during 1982-89,
would develop an area of about 101,000 ha out of the 400,000 ha of total
cultivable land in the two provinces.
Program and Project Objectives
37.      The main objectives of the program and the project are to increase
production of key agricultural commodities under rainfed conditions. This
would result in (i) helping the country move towards self-sufficiency in basic
foods and hence in saving foreign exchange and (ii) raising the income and
standard of living of the rural population in southern Syria, which would
contribute to halting the present trend of rural-urban migration. The program
and project would also assist in building the institutional framework required
for agricultural development by strengthening the extension service, and by
setting up an organization for project implementation which could be used as a
model in future projects.  The project would support the Government's new
approach to agriculture which places greater importance on the rainfed
agriculture subsector.
The Program
38.      The program would increase production by expanding the cultivable
land and by providing equipment and services to increase productivity. The
program consists of the following components;  (a) field crop development
covering about 94,000 ha; (b)fruit tree development covering about 7,000 ha;
(c) construction of farm access roads to serve the program area; (d)
strengthening of the extension service to support the proposed fruit tree and
field crop development programs and of the organization for program
implementation; (e) provision of technical assistance.
39.      Field Crop Development.  About 21,000 ha out of the 94,000 ha of the
project area have rocks between 25 cm and one m in diameter which cover
valuable land. Equipment would be provided under the program for removing
these rocks, which would increase the effective area of productive land,
facilitate mechanized farm operations and reduce costs of production. In
aadition, a large portion of productive land in the program area is
traditionally left fallow (unplanted), although it is feasible to eliminate or
reduce it. This would be promoted by the expanded extension service.



- 13 -
40.      The program would also provide farm machinery to increase
mechanization of farm operations and would provide advice to the farmers
through the extension service on the optimal use of fertilizers, appropriate
seedbed preparation, seeding techniques, and weed and pest control. The
increased mechanization and improved cultural practices would reduce
production costs, improve yields and alleviate the severe shortage of farm
labor in the project area. The main crops to be grown are wheat, barley,
chickpeas, lentils, sorghum and watermelons.
41.      Fruit Tree Development.  Unutilized hilly lands (about 3,400 ha in
Sweida and 3,600 ha in Deraa) would be developed for fruit tree production.
The program provides for land preparation for the establishment of orchards
and for financing inputs required for their proper maintenance through the
first year of production. Equipment for land preparation and farm machinery
would be provided. Planting techniques for these fruit trees are known in
Syria and the proposed mix of fruit trees is well adapted to the orchard sites
which have already been selected following surveys and discussions with the
owners. Nonetheless, the extension service would advise the farmers on the
correct cultural practices to be followed. Olives, almonds, and grapes would
be the principal fruit trees to be grown in Deraa while apples, pears,
cherries, and grapes would be the principal ones to be grown in Sweida.
42.      Farm Access Roads.  About 185 km of roads would be constructed to
connect farms with villages and open up inaccessible locations. About 56 km
would be third-class asphalt roads to provide year-round access to the hilly
fruit tree areas, and 129 km would be gravel or dirt roads to serve the field
crop areas.
43.      Extension Development.  The program would support the Government's
efforts to build a strong extension service by setting up 17 extension centers
which would serve exclusively farmers in the program area. Nine of these
centers would be located in the province of Deraa and the remaining eight
would be in the province of Sweida. Each center would be staffed with a team
of six extension staff (three agricultural engineers and three extension
agents) and would be equipped with the necessary vehicles, demonstration
equipment, tools and agricultural inputs to provide active extension programs
to an average of about 235 families per extension agent. The center-farmer
ratio, which is higher than the national average, is required given the
dispersed location of the farms, the difficult terrain, and the intensity of
extension activities required to introduce new production techniques.
Extension services would be provided on a continuous basis by a core of
trained extension agents supported by subject matter specialists of MAAR. FAQ
is currently providing training to about 75 MAAR staff per year in extension
methodology, and the program under which this training is provided is being
expanded.
44.      Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance would be provided to help
strengthen the extension service; train personnel in project evaluation; train
tractor drivers, combine operators and mechanics; and help in setting up a
system for monitoring the development program. About 90 man-months of
training abroad would be provided for key extension personnel. About 24
man-months of consultant services would be provided for training personnel in
the techniques of project identification, preparation, appraisal and



- 14 -
supervision. To strengthen the Ministry's capability for monitoring and
evaluation of its development programs, including the proposed development
program, about 84 man-months of consultant services would be provided. The
above-mentioned consultants would be employed not later than April 30, 1983.
45.      As there is a serious shortage of machinery operators and mechanics
in the southern region, training would be provided for tractor drivers,
mechanics and combine operators. The trainees from the program, combined with
existing personnel, would satisfy the development program's requirements.
This type of training has been conducted in other parts of the country with
UNDP financing, and it is expected that the same personnel would organize the
program in the southern region. The Government has agreed to plan and
organize a farm machinery training program in Deraa and to establish the
program by December 31, 1982 (Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Phasing of the Program
46.      The program would be implemented in two phases.  The first, which
would be implemented in 1982-85, consists of the project to be financed by the
Bank and is described in para. 47 below. The second phase, which would be
implemented during 1986-89 would consist of the development of the balance of
the field crop and fruit tree programs, and recurrent costs of program
administration and extension services. The institutional aspects of the
program will be set up in the first stage to ensure the smooth and accelerated
implementation of the second stage. Also, the scope of the second stage could
be modified from that envisaged at the present time depending on the strengths
of the institutions developed and on the experience acquired in the
implementation under the first phase. To assist in adapting the project
concept to other areas, MAAR would design a comprehensive monitoring and
evaluation system for the development program and send it to the Bank by March
31, 1983, and thereafter implement the agreed procedures (Section 5.03 of the
Loan Agreement).
Project Description
47.      The project consists primarily of the first phase of the development
program and includes (a) field crop development of about 25,400 ha (27 percent
of the program area) and farm machinery for the first year of the second
phase; (b) fruit tree development on 4,600 ha (66 percent of the program
area); (c) construction of associated rural roads; (d) strengthening of the
extension service and of the organization for project administration; and (e)
provision of technical assistance. The detailed features of the project are
the same as those of the entire program except that the area of coverage is
smaller. The project includes financing of the farm machinery for field crop
development needed for the first year of the second phase of the project to
ensure continuity of the development program. Disbursements for this farm
machinery would not be made until the Bank is satisfied, based on the review
of the progress made under the first phase, that the second phase continues to
be justified, and that the Government confirms its intention to complete the
Development Program substantially as planned (Schedule 1, para. 4(ii) of the
Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
1>je=C T,pl^ti
48.      MAAR would have overall responsibility fo2 project implementation.
CAB would assist MAAR in the sale on credit of farm machinery and in the
recovery of the costs of derocking operations and the establishment of
orchards. MAAR would consult with other Government agencies as required. A
Project Steering Committee has been established to provide general policy
guidance to the implementing agencies and monitor the project's progress. Its
membership includes senior representatives from MAAR, the State Planning
Commission (SPC), CAB, the Ministry of Local Administration, the Governors of
Deraa and Sweida, the Peasants Union, and key project personnel.
49.      MAAR has established two Project Coordination Units in Damascus; one
responsible for implementing the extension component under the Directorate of
Extension, and another one responsible for all other components under the
Directorate of Agrarian Affairs. The work of these two Units would be
coordinated by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, who
would be in charge of all project-related activities. The Units have been
staffed with MAAR personnel working full-time on the project. These Units
would coordinate project operational plans; monitor and evaluate project
progress; identify and resolve implementation bottlenecks; prepare bid
documents and participate in the evaluation and award of tenders; and
coordinate preparation of the project progress reports and the project
completion report.
50.      The Ministry has also established two Project Implementation Units in
Deraa and two in Sweida. In each province, one unit would be responsible for
extension and the other for all other activities. The Units have also been
staffed with MAAR personnel working full-time on the project. For
administrative purposes, the Units would be located within the Provincial
Agricultural Directorate of MAAR, but they would have direct communication
with the Coordinating Units in Damascus. The Implementation Units would be
responsible for the direct administration of the project and would prepare
operational plans, coordinate extension service activities, monitor and
evaluate project progress, prepare progress reports and a completion report on
their respective parts of the project and prepare sub-projects for financing
by CAB. A system of sub-project appraisal satisfactory to the Bank would be
established by June 30, 1983 (Section 4.07 of the Loan Agreement). The
Government has agreed to maintain the Steering Committee, as well as Project
Coordination and Implementation Units through project completion (Section 4.06
of the Loan Agreement).
51.      The Project Coordination and Implementation Units and CAB would
maintain separate accounts of project funds. These accounts would be
consolidated by the Damascus Project Coordination Units. Progress reports
would be prepared twice a year and submitted to the Bank no later than March
and September of every year starting in March 1983. Project accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and the
audited accounts submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each
fiscal year.
52.      The specific functions of MAAR in project implementation would
include; supervision of derocking operations and of construction of farm



- 16 -
access roads, buildings, and other physical facilities, and the establishment
of orchards. It would also be responsible for organizing and administering
the procurement of equipment and spare parts -- derocking equipment, farm
machinery and personnel vehicles, as well as the provision of extension
services and training.
53.      Efforts would be made to encourage private entrepreneurs to undertake
derocking operations by giving them the opportunity to lease some of the
equipment to be procured under the project to carry out the derocking
operations, if they choose. If private contractors do not show interest in
carrying out these works, they would be carried out by MAAR by force account.
Farm access roads would be built by contractors. The Project Implementation
Units would supervise their construction. The Project Implementation Units of
MAAR would also establish orchards for the fruit tree development.
54.      MAAR, with the assistance of the National Tractor Company, would
procure the equipment and spare parts for the project and be responsible for
administering the distribution of the farm machinery included in the project.
This is standard practice in Syria.
55.      The farm machinery (exclusive of spares) would be sold by MAAR to
farmers or cooperatives on credit through CAB. The spares would be sold
through local distributors. The farmers would apply to CAB to purchase the
machinery, and after approval of credit, CAB would authorize MAAR to pass
possession of the machinery to the farmers and would at the same time charge
the cost of the machinery to the account of the farmers. Sub-loans for farm
machinery would be repaid within a period of five years, including up to one
year of grace and an interest rate of at least four percent for cooperatives
and at least five and one-half percent for private farmers. CAB would provide
out of its own funds short-term financing for inputs and machinery operating
costs.
56.      All derocking operations and the costs of establishment of orchards
would be paid for by MAAR on behalf of the farmers. CAB would reimburse the
Ministry for the expenditures, and charge to the accounts of the farmers their
corresponding shares which would then be treated as credit. The farmers would
repay the Government for the establishment of orchards within ten years with
five years of grace, and an interest rate of at least two percent for
cooperatives and at least three percent for private farmers. They would repay
the Government for field crop derocking within five years with up to one year
of grace and at an interest rate of at least four percent for cooperatives and
at least five and one-half percent for private farmers. The procedures
referred to in paras. 55 and 56 are normal practice in Syria, and the farmers
are familiar with them.
57.      The repair and maintenance of farm machinery would be done largely by
private shops which are currently servicing a large number of tractors in the
project area. It is expected that the private workshops would expand in
response to the growth in demand for their services to be generated by the
additional tractors to be provided under the project. To complement the
private sector, however, the General Organization for Farm Machinery (GOFM),
an autonomous government agency, plans to allocate to the project area 20
mobile workshops along with necessary mechanics no later than June 30, 1983.



- 17 -
The GOFM will also establish a repair and maintenance facility in Deraa with a
capability to perform major overhauls. Since the facility is important for
the mechanization effort in the entire region including the project, the
Government has agreed to complete the facility by December 31, 1984 (Section
5.05 of the Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates
58.      The total cost of the project is estimated at about $76.3 million, of
which about $42.2 million is in foreign exchange. Physical contingencies have
been computed only for construction of farm access roads and have been
estimated at 15 percent due to the dispersed nature of these roads throughout
an area with varying topographic features. Allowances for expected price
increases on the local cost component have been estimated at nine percent in
1982 and eight percent per year thereafter. The allowances for the foreign
component amount to eight percent in 1982, seven percent during 1983-1985, and
six percent in 1986. The project is exempt from payment of import duties and
local taxes. Details of the cost estimates are given at the beginning of this
report. Consulting services have been estimated at $8,300 per man month,
which is considered realistic.
Financing Arrangements
59.      The Bank loan of $22 million would finance 52 percent of the foreign
exchange component of the project. IFAD, which would contribute $18 million,
would jointly finance items (a),(b) and (c) of para. 47 with the Bank. The
UNDP, which would contribute $2.2 million, would finance the foreign exchange
cost of the technical assistance component of the project. The Government
would contribute $24.7 million and CAB $9.4 million. The terms of the IFAD
loan are expected to be 20 years including five years of grace with interest
at four percent per annum. UNDP has confirmed its willingness to finance the
technical assistance component of the project on a grant basis. The execution
and delivery of the IFAD Loan Agreement and the appointment of the Bank as
cooperating institution to administer the Fund loan would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Bank Loan (Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement).
Flow of Funds
60.      The Government would utilize $38.8 million of the proposed financing
from the Bank and IFAD to purchase equipment and spare parts for land
development ($19 million), vehicles for the extension service and for project
administration ($0.9 million), farm machinery and spare parts ($13.9 million)
and civil works construction, mainly of farm access roads ($5 million). As
mentioned above, the farm machinery would be sold to farmers or cooperatives
on credit through CAB. Also, all derocking operations and the establishment
of orchards would be paid by MAAR on behalf of the farmers, and CAB would
recover these costs from the farmers. For purposes of extending credit to the
farmers to purchase the farm machinery and to recover the cost of derocking
and fruit tree establishment, a Financial and Administrative Arrangement
between the Government and CAB satisfactory to the Bank would be signed by
December 31, 1982. The arrangement would spell out the relationship between
the MAAR and CAB (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Procurement
61.      Equipment required for land development including derocking equipment
($19 million including contingencies), farm machinery ($13.9 million including
contingencies), and equipment for extension and for project administration
($0.9 million), for a total of about $33.8 million, or an equivalent of nearly
85 percent of the proposed financing by IBRD and IFAD would be procured by
MAAR following international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines. Spare parts would be procured together with the
equipment. In addition, the successful bidders for the supply of equipment
would be required to arrange for the stockpiling and distribution of spares
needed during the life of the equipment. Local manufacturers of equipment
would be allowed a 15 percent preference margin or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is less. To the extent possible, contracts for equipment
would be grouped into single bid packages of at least $500,000 equivalent.
Equipment which cannot be suitably grouped for ICB procurement (namely,
contracts valued up to $100,000 equivalent) and up to an aggregate amount of
$1.5 million would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. All bid
documents would be prepared by MAAR in collaboration with other agencies which
have had experience in preparing and processing similar bid packages. Civil
works contracts, consisting mainly of farm access roads, would also be let on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. For all contracts costing more than
$300,000, before bids are invited, MAAR would furnish to the Bank, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with the description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding. Any modification to the bidding documents
shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
Disbursements
62.      The proposed Bank and IFAD loans would be disbursed against (i) 100
percent of foreign expenditures for land development equipment and spare parts
(55 percent Bank; 45 percent IFAD); (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
or 100 percent of local ex-factory costs of the farm machinery and spare parts
(55 percent Bank; 45 percent IFAD) and (iii) 65 percent of civil works
contracts (36 percent Bank; 29 percent IFAD).
Demand and Market
63.      The main field crops to be produced under the project are cereals,
(mainly wheat, barley, and sorghum), legumes (mainly chickpeas and lentils)
and watermelons. The main fruit trees to be produced are almonds, apples,
cherries, grapes, olives and pears. At present, virtually all field crops
with the exception of watermelons are marketed by the Government through its
General Organization for Cereal Processing and Trade (GOCPT), which has no
serious competition. Fruit trees, as well as watermelons, are marketed
predominantly by private merchants. Output resulting from the project would
use the regular marketing channels.



- 19 -
64.      Faced with a rapidly-growing demand and sluggish growth in
production, Syria is expected to continue to be a net importer of the major
crops, particularly cereals. Except for chickpeas, lentils, and barley, the
country has remained a net importer of all project commodities over the past
decade. The country was a net exporter of barley until about the mid-1970s,
but recently has imported increasingly large quantities to satisfy the growing
demand for livestock feed. Syria is virtually self-sufficient in chickpeas
and lentils with only a small volume of exports. Chickpeas are an important
part of the diet of the population of the region and the demand for them would
continue to increase at home and in the neighboring countries. The outlook
for marketing outputs of fruit is similarly favorable. Based on domestic
projections made by FAO/CP and the Government, the estimated domestic
production, taking into account the planned additional plantings, would not be
able to satisfy the growing demand. The deficit is projected to increase to
nearly 80,000 tons by the turn of the century. No serious difficulties are
thus anticipated in marketing the output resulting from the project.
Project Benefits
65.      Benefits have been calculated for the entire development program as
well as for the project, as both phases are interdependent. The proposed
development program constitutes an important step in the development of
rainfed agriculture in Syria by increasing cultivable lands, and building the
institutional framework for growth through the expansion of extension services
and the establishment of an organization for project implementation which
could be used as a model in other areas. The yield of field crops is
projected to increase between 30-90 percent. An important benefit of the
program would be its impact on reducing poverty in southern Syria.
Approximately 10,000 farm families (58,000 people), most of whom are poor,
would benefit from the project. At full development, per capita farm income
is projected to reach about $660 (computed in constant 1981 prices) compared
with a per capita income of about $200 in 1980. The economic rate of return
of the program is estimated at about 18 percent. The economic rate of return
on the fruit tree component alone is estimated at about 20 percent, and that
of the field tree component at about 15 percent. The rate of return for the
project, including farm machinery for the first year of the second stage, is
14 percent. Sensitivity analysis indicates that with a 20 percent increase in
costs, the rate of return of the program drops to 15 percent and for the
project to 12 percent. With a 10 percent decrease in benefits, the rate of
return of the program drops to 16 percent and that of the project to 11
percent.
Risks
66.      The main risks associated with the project relate to its innovative
nature as the project is the first large-scale operation to be carried out by
the Government in rainfed areas. The key factors which would determine the
success of the project are the responsiveness of the beneficiaries to the
recommended cultural practices, and the motivation of the rural population to
stay in the area. In general, the beneficiaries are responsive to incentives
and the financial returns are expected to induce them to participate in the
project. The Bank's experience with on-going agricultural projects in Syria
shows that the strength of the implementing agencies is a key factor for
success of projects. Consequently, measures have been taken to establish a



- 20 -
strong project implementation structure. The project staff would work
exclusively on the project to avoid diffusion of their responsibilities, and
they would be provided with adequate vehicles and other support. Project
staff would also be paid field allowances to supplement the generally low
public salary scales. Hence, the project faces risks due to its innovative
character, but every effort has been made to minimize them.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Syrian Arab Republic and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for under Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately.
Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III. An
additional condition of effectiveness would be the execution and effectiveness
of the Fund Loan Agreement and the Bank having been appointed as cooperating
institution to administer the Fund Loan (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). A special condition of disbursement for the farm machinery of the
first year of the second phase would be that the Bank is satisfied, after
review of progress of development under the first phase, that the second phase
of the project continues to be justified and that the Government confirms its
intention to complete the Development Program substantially as planned
(Schedule 1, para. 4(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
68.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 15, 1982
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                   Page 1 of 6
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AE fES
LANu AREA (IHOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'T
IToAL             185.2                                                           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRILULIURAL      140.1                                    MOST RECENT            NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b            MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
UNP PLR CAP1TA (USO)                    200.0         380.0    1030.0                   865.5                    1616.2
ENERGY LONbUMPTION PER LAPITA
(KILU(GKAUIb OF LUAL EQUIVALENT)      323.0        410.8      970.6                  758.3                     1324.1
POPULAINUh AND VIIAL SIATISIICS
PUFPLAYLoN, MIU-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  4561.0          6258.3    8639.0
UKBAN PDPULATIuN (PERLENT oP TOTAL) 36.8            43.3       49.4                   45.2                       64.2
PuPLAI luN PRUJECTIUNS
pPUULAlUhN IN YEAK 2000 (MILLIONS)                           16.4
bIATIUNAKY PUPULATIUN (MCLLIONS)                             33.0
YEAR KTATIONAKY POPULATION IS REALHED                      208U.0
ePuULATIuN DENSITY
PEK b,. KM.                          24.b         33.8       46.6                   36.3                       34.3
PER sQ. KI-1. AGRlULCTURAL LAND      31.0         44.9       59.4                  442.7                       94.5
PuPULAIIUN AGE ,TRULTURE (PERCENI)
U-'4 YTb.                            44.4         48.2       48.1                   44.2                       40.7
15-64 YTR.                            51.8         47.8       48.1                   52.4                       55.3
b5 YKb. AND ABuVE                      3.8          4.0        3.8                    3.4                        4.0
PUPULAIIUN GRUOWIH RATE (PERLENI)
TOTAL                                 2.7          3.2        3.6jL                  2.7                        2.4
UKRAN                                 4.5          4.8        5.0                    4.6                        3.7
CRUDE BlKTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        47.1         46.2       44.9                   41.5                       31.4
CRUDE DEATH KATE (PER IHUUSAND)        17.5         13.1        8.4                    12.8                       8.4
URObS KREPRUDULTIUN RArE                3.8           3.9        3.4                    2.9                       2.3
tAMlLY PLANNING
ALLEPTURS, ANNUAL (THBUSANDS)
USEKS (PERLENT OF MARKlED WOMEN)    ..              ..
FPu0 AND 1NUTKITIUN
ENUhA uF FuuOD PKODUCTION
PER CAPITA (19b9-71-lDD)            128.0         87.0      139.0                   96.3                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
LALuRILs (PELRClT OF
KLQUiktLENlT)                      96.0         97.0      108.0                  110.4                     107.6
PROUINsb (GRAMS PER DAY)             66.0         66.0       77.0                   73.4                      65.8
oF WhlCH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.U         19.0       24.0                   17.1                      34.0
LCILLU (AGLb 1-4) HNJRTAL1TY RATE      24.7         13.6        6.6                   14.9                        7.6
HEALTh
LIPF  LXPULTANCY Al BIRTH  (YEARS)    49.7          57.8       64.9                   55.9                       64.1
INFANT MIORTALITY RATl
(PEK THUUSAND)                        ..        105.0         ..                     *.                      70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PEKCENT OF
PUPULATION)
TIUAL                                41.9         71.U       75.0                   59.4                      65.7
URhAN                                76.7         98.0       80.0                   83.9                       79.7
RURAL                                22.6         5U.0       70.0                   40.8                      43.9
ACLESS To EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Ot POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..                     ..                      59.9
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                     ..                       75.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                     ..                       30.4
YPOULATIUN PER PHYSICIAN             4630.5       3856.0    2567.5                  4174.5                     1728.2
PuPULATION PER NURSING PERSuN        6660.0       4467.0    3894.9                  1780.5                     1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
ToTAL                               929.0       1006.8      982.5                  647.4                     471.2
URbAN                                  ..        874.5      802.6                  547.2                     558.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                 3361.1
ADMISSIUNS PER HUSPITAL BED              ..         24.1         *-                   25.3
HOGS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TuTAL                                 5.9 /c       5.9
URBAN                                 6.0 /c       6.0
8URAL                                 5.9 /c       5.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONs PER ROOM
TUTAL                                 2.3           ..
URBAN                                 2.1           ..
RURAL                                 2.5           ..
ACCESS To ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
uF DWELLINSb)
TuTAL                                38.0 /c      41.7
URBAN                                87.7 /c      84.7
RURAL                                10.5 Ic      10.2



-22-                                                AEX I
Page 2 of 6
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA 6            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  65.0        87.0       89.0                   85.1                    101.7
MALE                  89.0        110.0      105.0                 101.5                     103.0
FEMALE                39.0         63.0      73.0                   67.5                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  16.0         38.0      50.0                   38.0                     35.3
MALE                  25.0         54.0       69.0                  48.1                      34.9
FEMALE                 7.0         20.0      36.0                   28.3                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   6.0            3.4      13.0                   11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             46.0        37.0       35.0                   34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                           21.0        22.0       21.0                   23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         30.0         40.0       58.0                  43.0                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.0         4.7        8.1                   18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          57.0       218.4         ..                 121.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.2         18.5      31.2                  37.4                      89.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..       8.4                   35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0            4.0/d      5.5                   3.0                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1277.1       1573.8    2092.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     9.4         10.9      12.0                   10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               54.2         51.1      32.1                   43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0        20.8       31.0                  27.3                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.0         25.1      24.2                   26.4                     31.8
MALE                                  49.4         43.7      41.6                   47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                                 5.4          5.6       6.0                    5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7          2.1       2.1                    1.8                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   25.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  49.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 271.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      278.0                 400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..      278.0                 290.9                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                  22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c 1962; /d 1966; /e Recent population growth estimate is 3.3%.
May, 1981



ANNEtX I
- 23 -                                                                               Page 3 of 6
DEFINtITIlNS OF SOCIAL INDIICATORS
litre:  Alt~hough Ott data are drua  fros so--e  generall1y judged the     -atarhoriat.i   . ad  -ehisblo.  it should also he outd that they say no  he ine--
atotllcoYetIlhle  heo.use of the lack of studsrdinsd deftnitions and toroepte used hy differet contie.                        colecingth  dta.  The data  -ee  note-
ohelees, useful to descrihe croon o~f s-situdn, itdibate trends, sod ciaanrescoannjodifensheoroute
The  see         rusae()teereoutygopo  the1 subjeot o.untry an`2 oury grupwih etenha ihigh. -r-veag   Ioose than the onuey group
of the  o bect  ot.ry  fencp.t for "Cinl:          ur, u  OilU  ttopoee   ru    hr   cal  inhton Ioo             ftieen idleo       ht   erosnhruso
one indlat.r at atlas amng thn ....ttry and  efereno- groups.
LADyl hRCk (ohaua...d sqn)rpoulao 'ner hoplo  te d - c-ro1, colo, end rura  - ropulaoroo  (total,
Total -      I total  suoeteare   costeon   land stee ad inland watrs                                brat, end otslj)dotided ty otter  -P-cto- vaster of h,speta  teds
AgoMtru _ura  - tetisats          I.E of ng toul ltots usd-ep-raily or perste-ly                     uejlblehie  nrli pb   so_d piasgnrladse ledhsia   n   e
f-t crty.P  pastre, earine end kitchen g                 tdesorn  lie  fellow; 1975 dsr.thhlooiontr.                            ptl  eaerh islteten'ne pormunentIly staf fed
by en least toe phleicLs. fnuei Ismene  preo,1lding Prtnoipsllpyeo
Gti PEi CAPITA (US$)   GNIP per.. cirsea  .ae        .n.rnt    nktpics   a-da ternar ..                                  r i            Rlua .gue    Ftyta    hanve- I"Iud  health
rolan.d  byeaernosw  etdasLor-id tuoktAtlas (197"7-'19 hst); 16O                                    and medical -e-t! s  not permaentl  staffed hr a physicIan  (hueky.
1970, end 1979 data.                                                                                mad ial ase..      tor., niduife, set.) which offer in-patient stra-
dato- end pt-ide . lisited range of medical facilities.  Poterais-
itfERG _COlNfPTIOt _PM  CAITA -          It ...al   oospolor of  tttisinnergy  frost                   tiosi purpoe ... rhdbn hospitals ileolde tWHO. pittnipal(ge....    hspirsIs,
and lignIte. Petrolen-   natura  g-aand hydro-.,roier an.           gone.a e.e-                     adtrural h,ospita14 loca  or.ruts  hoptasad sedial and s--etit
'teloty~) In kiiogoa_  of _va  enitar  per opte;1960, 1971 oI d 1979                               reterst.  ISPsoaie   hospitals  ens inldedIoly undnr total.
dais.                                                                                             kssln  nor!   ,iZIoa  led - Totalteh1   of sdssslo    to or discharges
ylPtIAtTION A01 VITAL. STATISTICS
Toa   nn itoo   Od-Tea  lthnu...d. W- As ofJudly 1; 1960. 1971,..ed 1979              HOUINGil
des                                                                                             Ave..Rag  tine I of -oushol,  ocralehueod  -t                      ra,adrrl
Urhan Pouano  (torrent of meal) -eneooratooalpep1laion;                                              A house hold rv n  of s group oftI ivinl  wh  ehn-etlivg quatr
diffeent dfinirwneIf urh-en  ara   my.affect         -bpaeiItr of data                      and ehir suit seals.  A hoerder or lodger saorny eon he ietdsd to
aog countries; 1960. 19701..ad 1979 dart                                                        the house hold fosaisiclpurposes.
torlA.o.....rrone                                                                                   verastEhero  osros  ta  tos-rra.urs.sdorl  A-erer 9                             es
Pouala Iotyea  2000   Curren  ropuIint- projetion e..         tame..d or 1980               he   .fpesn  pe  romiPl_ra,adrra   roldcnnlou
total PoPular ton hr age and men end nhitr atr-n ty and fertility rae.d-o11ions,  rspcIvly                                    weigsalds n-p-rmtst ...rnrs  n
troeriow taasesn  foe  -toriaity rtes rmprias of three levels ass-onctpied Parts.                                 ly
ing life sePerta-y et h1irrh lorusn I ol  onty's per  Aait ntrn.oos  to Electriolit(prntodelae)-es, urban. and neuni1
is_a.  ad,      snlr _   enI ectany soahbiengti7. t"7. yer."Ithe rare-                          C erat Ionl    .cslig   ner   aotnloity In Innin  quarters asP  -ts
aster  tot fertil ity otet also hat  three leesesotg   elsi                                      f  oa.  orhat  and rural deell lgs  epoiso
fe-tilityeo--rding to Ir a. la.         so.  ts  fanly_ PlnIng.  -afrn r..
lathf tountry Is then assigned one of these nine cobinanto..  of sottnlity                 EDUCATION
an  frility treds for projection p-rpnees.                                                Adiosntd E...llmnn  genres
Strarto...ry oorolstion-IIe.o.oioovry pplainthere Istogo  tsh since                               P.taosho            etl   aeadf-l              .....s totl   olean  fal~t_
the birth rare J   Isqa  to the death rate,, erdasoti Ont ege snortur  ne-1enollmet of all a ns at the Primar  lee1a-1                                   rene   of oaetv
an toerowenas.   Thi  isahievd only afe    eriIyose eolen                                    prl yr erhol-age pepulerio..s;  -oee1y 1-1.ldes ohildren agedf.6-il
the ospiets-t level ofuIt net reedgtierraa  ohsw eeth ga... -iun                                  yerbut adjusted for diffeea  langth, of primary edctio; o
of na    slrstsl  enacte. hfe ttsiotry populatio  sInwacotre  alt  universel adoration anro                                                       n  may e.:,:d 111 per--
-sletd  bo ie  ssu   toteprojsos   hpcaioc   rteprleo                                             icse    uisaeSinc   hv  the  -toiishaul age
in    2f>a  10,adoherro  deoliv   ffetiity raetorplee                                     eodayslo   - total   aeadrsl      opue   sao                           eodr
I.th           00 Idh intel....educ tion rore oleatouyarofaprvd riryntroo;
Ye  ernlar-      ooinori  eehd- ttn Year  h-r ert.".ay pouswprovides geneal...I                                                 IIu t  o  teach. ' strIningistt  Iin   o  onnib
site hen hb..re-chd.                                                                              "usully of12n  17 Yenre of age; correspondenc   twseae   eeal
ten en. km. - ftid-ye-  population Pen aquers kilo saint-  (101 hattra) ofVotoa   nolnil.ratofVstnar)-totti_nu  iostituttons
tr-al area; 1960, 1970 sod 1979 den.-ioustonrl  iuuustrialh. or.                                                                      I  other peogres wich opertet indepe-
Pe en. lo  agricultura  lend - Compted as  bhoos for agrirult-1 land                               tnlyo  asdpatets of secodarylaitnne
only;. 1960. 19(0 and i9tt date.                                                                "Pili,abe  rtio Lorlatey. andd seooda   - Tois1 studests   -1role   In
tnrousnio  Age ~tetuotors . ir sI')_-Children (0-lA  year),  wrho-           1s i-                     prImay ad aerudut  Invl  dovdd hr ruser  It tea.tte    it tht
64 years).  an.d retired (65 Years .dudve a  p-tretagna of aid-year  opo,-                          totsodn   ees
ltior;' 1961, 1970. aed 19(9 dana.                                                               Adult litereny oars (nec-) - Literteault  (sble no reed and colts)
Fomiation urosehgesfrraoj- oa  - Annual growth rtes If trial aid-                                      saper--tge of  -Ina  adult pepu1lanitn agd 15 year  and Irer
pe- populanio.. fon 1950-h0, 1960-It,. erd 1970-79.
PopulaionI Grwth gets irerret)-  ra  - anneal grotO  fares of  than top.-                       CltSfMPt10N
leoti.. for 1950-60. 1960-70, end 1970479.                                                      Passenast Ce. (rer th...ui  re stin) - Paseager  ar  to..o.             e mtor
Cods  it.   e   lost thasen            ,  Seu   live hirtha per thousand of aid-year               tr setingle  that  ight Peren; serludesehla e  hearse  and
population; 1961, 1970, end 19 79 data                                                            milineryveile
Cres Iet  ges  rerthusad)- hnu   dati  pr touand  o  mi-yar             ado tneverh  (re  thuesad population) - All typos of  rciesfor r-dha
C'population; 1960, 1970, and 1979 data.                                                           bodst  a   er    poilir per tio...and on populetirn; ancodeeun
Crss -erd-o-ten  Rat-Oerge cober of daughters a sss  nill kent in                               licnsd    -eoivrsin ronisad i   er  ehnrgsetior oftat
her tosal neroduotv  pe iod _t he apeniennas      , preent .ge .peifi  far-              sets  a   ne.o;dn f          or reet  e ts  a o he rwf.rag              sslt
llieprates;usoelY fr-res  aegsen Ing in16, 197,  an d 1979.                                 mot-nttis abolished lire..sing.
taly naIn   -  uowor.  nUal.,             uan     Annual  ru_her of  ...oospor                  TV Re...iv-e  (ret thouns.nd-nnltie           f             1siesfor    . Ondst tot
o:f hiotOh-tronAr `d-vire  under ausioss of netiea ..       asf.ily P. p "nIg PIng",s              est-e   public pen throese,d popl-ton  s_ldsuresd  t ne-e-osr
UsilPlnlopso    (reronun ofeartldnMe) - P-roetoageofarid                                  treoiesaIdi Y.u fet          .weteinuIotf snsesft
n-tIf rhild-bariog age (15-44 y-nr) ah  ass hirth--ore-n  devon  noOcnotCrrlto.                                        nnhuaa   oue t ...thaws the1 aveag  rio-
all marred woma  in searage grop.                                        o-leionof "dily genera  Intres  neespape"  dfined asPertd it
phli-tri-n  devote  prianilyt. o   ..oodieg genra -1nIs.  It is  .n.aidro-d
FOnt) AlND rUTRITION                                                                                   to he udailyn  tf itappeurast len_  ourtrts  esk.
ImAre If PrdPFd.       oo  ts   Mats(997l-lI             d- Ineof rentstitasntus1                 Cinem  A--Ie Alt-edure rp.  Canine net lee- asdwthnuk                       f
prdtiro   l fon  teasdpnoise.1fr-d-t0ifr eerldss seed sad feed antion  sol -d during the yea, irogding admisio  nodio-in  riosa
is on calenar year hate,  toanditna roost pimary good  (e.g. togatane  and mbIle units
p -tiers d of sug11 fhith  ar   dhi   n   nnaenuret  (                 ofedn
tea are seclded).  Aggregate po-detill of -rhogo0nry Is hbe  en. dLAtR FOeCt
neilovalteruge podnoeo wite rsight.; 191-65 , I17,ad 1979 data.                          T-Ia LbhrPot  (rosa          .)     - woolel   uiepros   oldn
Per ca- aeyo  clrn    rre1.foelsers       optd  omeadforeaduaipd hut secluding  -oseiva    tuet,  n'
energy eqolyaleu  of netfood sple    vilhrIn -ouny pant -pita                            oviRgppaio efIlgs. eiitosnvrecutiser
mrder.  A,ailahblsppIeropiednsatir poodurio   ipre0esrt -na-rbli; 1960, 1910 and 199 das
e..t..ndoane  in stool,  get sopples  ..rIude a-ias  feed, seeds,                    teala(neoan)- Psasle  beOn  force a  peo           Ing f tona  lakob t
quan titiesnosed In fond prooss_ e, ad losses ind dinttibe tion, Require-                     Agioultors (rer-t) - bIght forts In faring,forestry, horning and
-ants  er   bsise    y tAO hased or phyallogua  umlwnra   ot-                                   fishiga  p               Ioong f tonal 1abow  forte.; 1960, 1970 and 197  dasa.
nity.andh heath ou..idering  nvire...etI tempertue  hodfy=Igs, age                            IdaebInrn -Lht fortsI   iin Irig    oeooit    aearo
and seitn ihetion  of Po..ulation, and alloIng 10 reost-  for casts at~                         and                 --lrri,   ae  sd gaes -rtcig   of total  labor forts; 1960.
ho  ushld  level; 1961-55, 1900,..sd 19(1 date.                                               1970 sod 1979 data.
Perprtin    upttly of prte,in (s-s  ~tr day) - Protein ooot-n  of per capita                  Pgntirlrsie   ges  reret  -  otl,mle sd  nel  -Penristero
ne-sply offod per day;.  Nnt inplyofo   Is define    eaos   IsIritytneaeteo                                                     ernlsl,ad reae  eorfooe
qoomos  n   l  tntniesse   hli d Op 1110  prvde for  Iii                                etaae    f total  asi: end teals roultniei    of all a em  reseri.-ly;
Ifoaneo  60 gras  of rural prote.in wee dayad I  grass If ee-al evd                       1960, 1970, sod 1979 den.    Teeso   aedo-1.'  ari ai-n  'rae
pulse powaini, of rOleS 10 grs   hul   eaialpoer   these~ eae-tlleon   aes_eRntr tth.ouato,edlogtine nosd.
eodsetelevtsnthenthaeoflSr         Iafnot.1 p.totinard 23gramsIf                         fens           tase    foomnetlonalsourre..
anas  prteIn  ss  aeaefee th  no,   Proosd h   AO to the Third                            Dovmrpsrnrero  Ratio -   tio of pov.iseir  under 15 and 65 end over
torid Pond  irvey; 196-65, 1900 and 1977 data,noth  totel laborfore
rind  famnialssed pise   i  stms tsrda;161-65, 1970 and 1977 dsia.              INCOgc DISTRIlITIlO
Child lase   1-l  toilit Ratsfee  tboosad) - dAtrna  deaths prthounand in                         Pnen- - of PrOrate I-te  (tori In cant end kied)  -  sRived byrl,,ee
uge groP I-upr,t   kide   nr    asget   oema                            eoig rout-                5 pesrent.irhee-  20 percent  pooes  20 percet, end   wrt 1  percet
ttries data derIved from  lift t-bles; 1960. 1970 and 1979 dats.                                  of households.
HEALTe                                                                                            POVERTY 5TARGET GROUPS
LIfelus,     so ant-     -uqltthdinset) -tA-erge  asbte  of fare  of life rearinig                The fol1 ineelag        -- esimte  srcr    pproi-an  Iasre f Povert  level,
abit;16,170 ad1979 daa_d shruld be  .inneprenel clot                                                                               . btsdesletui.
Iten   eeaia  ear  frtthoesed) -  uAneI deuthe of i.f..t. under t O..              t           Rayatd-boue ost  Ioslvl p1tr  51s -ubnne   ne
of seawa  rhMued lIcebrh.o lt  tnvi-d                                                                              tyb irons    elgistha  into-aleve  hel.tpt:r   bhiri ad  u,lm
Auneeso Isl  fOstr foeoneeIf ....atel  t_ntal  _r.tao  ad ru-al -   m                       otnitio...ly adequte diat plus essential ton-teed rqtn eIe rot
raie sPPly  (itlades roare   seflo  raters on untreated tot erneise                           EtetiasredReaietvoyInsL el(0pronis-ubeedonl-
sna  soo  es ihee f twa po-tennd   thoreoln, springs,  n   aiar    ie                             Ror   rlaiv   poverty irons leve  is nan-third of averag  Pertp
foentaunt orIfdntlrtdtnmoete   1   sesfo  h",eh.    say hepesoa  iron   et tIe   -tty.  00sf level Is derive   fosthe  urs
roasidered as ~mittvteasoneOleetrss   of ihot onneas.   orerel ames             lenelnnt,edjoeb,ernIforhigherf restg of liing in artai  a- es
senhIe  tes ud iply than the h:ue_if. or -atrIf the hoosahold                              fetsebeoalngm AswoePvryIosL'e frwon  -cr
doo  hove to spendadsrpotoaePert of the day in fenthing rho                                       ned coral  P--tvet of pvpusrio   f-hu  nd oors)rhae"bslt
Arress.a ... Thots Disoo..el irarosan of onuaunntel. urhr sad ro l--
gseofPeoPle (total, urban, and  -ual  ssrved by  --tra d!ispr...las
p-roennag- -t rhain  .eP.oie   oolte._hot  dtapr...i asp itonds
the 1 oolou    uId dispsa,with we  ihetasmatofasinrterosit                                                                                        anISril  at lvii
lan installalions.                                                                                               cap ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1991 
toeuniajien ret Phystoian - Populstive divided by  eb-a of preotiring physi-                                                                                 Y
twelti    etgusiePserson -tple sdtnidsd hy anabee of pato
maleIanfe1.lsg-de-srrns   neutne                             ...ss     sisasf  erne



- 24 -
ANNIEX I
Pago 4 of 6
SYRIA - Economic Indicetors
Populstioni 8.9 million (aid-1980)
GNP Per Cspita* Ub4 1,340 (1980)
Amount                                                               Annual Growth Rates
(million UB  at                         Actusl (at 1975 Prices)                                         Projected (at 1980 Prices) ./
current prices)
Indicotor                      1980 b/                1976       1977      1978       1979      1980 b/                   1981      1982       1983      1984       1985
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product               12,916                  8.1       -2.5       8.7        5.3       9.7                       4.1       5.1        5.1       5.1        5.1
Agriculture                       2,704                  17.6    -14.9        19.2    -10.9       38.7                       3.0        3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0
Industry                          3,485                 16.0       -4.0       6.0        2.5       3.7                       8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0        8.0
Services                          6.727                   1.7       2.7       6.8       12.0       4.5                       4.0       4.1        4.2       4.2        4.0
Consumption                          11,674                  1.2        1.3      10.2      15.7        6.5                       3.8       5.4        5.5       5.7        5.2
Gross Investment                      3,243                 28.5        1.1      -0.8       8.7        8.4                       2.7       3.0        3.8       3.1       3.0
Export of Goods end NFP               2,370                   .6      -2.3       -2.1       -.5       20.5                      4.7        3.9        2.0       2.1       2.2
Import of Goods and N87               4,371                  2.1      11.9       -3.0      12.3        5.3                      2.5        3.7       3.5        3.6       2.3
Prices
GDP Detlator                                               111.3    124.9    137:8    157.3    184.7
Exchange Rate                                                3.89       3.92      3.92      3.92       3.92
Share of G aP at Market Prices ()   Aversge Annual Increases (2)
5(t currnt prices)                   (at conestat prices)
1907/                  195 -   97-0  /                 1980-85
Gross Domestic Product                                 100.0          100.0            100.0          5.8               4.9
Agriculture                                          17.9           20.9            19.1          8.1                3.0
Industry                                             24.8           27.0            31.1          4.8               8.0
bervices                                             37.3           52.1            49.8          5.4               4.1
Consumption                                             83.9           90.4             90.3         6.8                5.1
Gross Investment                                        28.6           25.1             23.0          5.0               3.1
Export of Goods & NFS                                   21.3           18.3             17.0          1.9               3.0
Import of Goods & NFb                                   33.8           33.8             30.3         5.6                3.1.
As % of GDP
Public Finance                                          1975                            1977                           1980
Current Revenues                                     27.5                           22.2                            27.2
Current Expenditures                                 24.9                           24.3                            31.0
Dehtcit                                              19.2                           25.4                            21.9
Capital Expenditures                                 21.7                           23.2                            18.1
Foreign Financtng                                    11.2                           19.7                            11.6
-- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - --_ _- - - - _- - - - - - --_ _- - - - - -- -- - -      - -__ _ _       - -__ _ _- - - --__ _ _- - - --__ _ _- - - --__ _ _- - - --__ _ _-    - -__ _ _- -   
Other lndicators                                 1975-80 b/            1980-85
GNP Grouch Rate (X)                               5.7                  4.7
GNP Per Cspita Grovth Rate (21                     1.8                  1.4
Energy Consumption Grovth Rate (21                8.5                  5.0
ICOh                                              7.0                  5.7
Marginal Savings Rste c/                          -.1                  5.3
Import Electricity                                 1.3                 0.7
a/ - provisional
b/ - 1980 figures are provisional.                                                                                                        EMENA CP Il-C
c/ - Excluding grants.



- 25 -
ANNEXI
?m* 5 of 
SiYRIA - Exetrnosi2rado
Powlai con:  8.9 mtillion 101-J-1980)
GNP Per C.P%C- UO } 34,0 k 1980)
A "ount                                      Actual */                                                     ro<iect.d  b/
(.lIIo.  USM  at          A-n1 Gtobth  .Cc. (2) IL  og...canC  1970 prices)                Ann.-I G,o*,th Rate (2) (1cc     ..o. cdn   1980 once.)
curretC prices)
Indxc.c-                       1980 cl                 1976      1977       1978      1979       1Q80 C/                 1981       1Q82      1983       1484       1985
Extcrnei Trade
4*rchandloe Exworts                   2.109                  3.9        1.5      -2.9        -.5      -5.2                       1.6       1.9       2.6        3.0        1.6
Pecroleus                          1,335                 24.2      -7.3       -9.4      -1.4       -2.5                    -3.2       -3.2       -3.0      -3.0       -3.0
Other Pr,-3rv                        332                 -5.5        5.5       6.8         -       -7.2                      6.5       7.0        7.0        7.4       R.0
monotact.rers                        442                 38.4      11.4      -11.9         .5       3.4'                    12.0      12.0       12.0      12.0       12.0
.erChcndISe Imports                   4.122                  9.8       19.2      12.8       -5.7        7.3                     2.4        2.6       2.7        2.9       3.0
rood                                 547                 -4.0      19.8        9.5        2.1      22.7                      3.0       3.3        3.3       3.1        3.0
?et-oleum                          1.070                 13.2      16.5        7.5      12.0       17.2                      1 .0      1.5        1.6      12.0        2.0
Nocnineri 6 Equ,preOt                878                  3.6      12.3       37.7    -14.7        -6.9                      2.5       2.6        2.5       2.5        2.4
Othet                              1.627                 14.8      22.9        3.5      -5.6        8.1                      3.1       3.3        3.4       3.6        3.9
Prices                                                                   Price Inde4  (1970 ' 100)                                           Price tpdex (1980 * 100)
Export P-ice tgdex                                            361       392       417        548        709                     104        108       122        137      155
imort 7-0ce Z-e%                                             330        304       326        405       528                       99        107       120        134      149
Terms ot Trade lodeX                                          109       129       128        135        134                     !05        !01       102        102      104
CoupoeiCion of Merchandise Trade (Z)   Averas Anoul. ':cresse  (Z)
(c cur-enc prices)                   (at corstant trice,)
1975           1980 c;         ;985        1975-30 c/           980-A5
Exports                                                too             1oo             100              .1               2.5
Petoleam                                            70             64               ;2          -4.1               -1.1
Other Ptiarv                                         22             i6               is            L.2                7. 2
ll-wtactarers                                         8             20               30           14.6              12.0
la,orts                                                100             100             100            7.4                2.7
Food                                                 '8             i3               12           14.0               3.1
Petroleum                                             7             26               27            5.5               2.0
4cchuceev & Oougp-eet                                29             21               9             1.6               2.5
Others                                               L6             40               42            9.2                3.5
_- -  -       - - -  -__ _ _  ---   ---- __  ---___ _   __ __ _ -- - -- - - _-- - - - --  -  ___ --   - _  ____ - _-- -   -    - - -   -   - - - - - ----___ -  __ - -- _- - -  -_ _   _____----   __ --   - _ _ _ ------   __ ---______---
oh.re of t,.de 'dith              Sh-re of T-de Woth                       Sh.-,,e -ra4. With                           Sh.re of T,-de  With
,-ect,on Dt Trade          loductn:al counc,e*  (01           Developong Countr.es (21           Caont,l huts),  Oil 7ounrturq ')              Centr.i))   i-leod  cO-O-u..  2)
1975            1980              1975             1980              1975                       '980               1975                     198n
Exports                     534              69                 17               3                  6                                           23                       21
Coorts                      56              51                 24              173                 S                          2                 i1
ii - D.* to defitencies cn tc-de dacc, reflecting differeces .*n c-tng  sod  alu.tion, the aro.th -aces are c.lcul,ted  a. tv4-vca  OOVihg averaxes.
I, - oruv-Siooai
- 1980 tiguew- are Drovsio...I
4cr-cm 15. I-82
E9ENA C? :,-C



-24.
laIx li I  S W    0 u ro 1  t pricel
Ctl7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ 4e c1 4C13D    90
Pog.aI.i,e, 6.4 .4121.. (aid-logo)
014  9r  sutid   U541.340 119600
fldic4tor                                             L971        1976       1977        1975       1979       1980 6/          1961       1912        3913       19it"      154
Selaece of rGvWAN
tieSft* ot e Good  o4pt *rice#                   I.356      i.42          .526     1 553      2.209       2.706           3.022       3.324      3.8"4      4.454       5.123
oCt  tabs ll%evhar,di                          930      1 070       1.071      1.0t2       1.49      2.109           2.19S       2.29)      2.575       2,893      3.158
t1  erCt  of Z.de& and lorwtgem                  1.943      2,6'9       2.656      2,7S5      3,859       4.314           4.901       5.491      t.347      7.264       6,295
ot wbitcbs  rW..eauin e                      1.540      2.2J2       2.610      2.402       3 39t      4,122           4,094   * ,404         4.931       55310      4.147
Not T,ooter-                                       644        412       1.162        03       1.65i       1.523           1.600      1.500       1.300        gm          goo
Correft Ac.ou t Solsec                              77       -765       -164         411           1        440            -279       -445        '965    -2.030    -2.370
D reel Privot. towstec                              19         73          S7         29          62          7              10          10         10          10         10
IILT Lo"e   ,tet                                   230        313         464        354         269        100             331         7S5      1.092      2. 14      2.500
Disbursement                                   272         411       S58         542         548         396             477      1.149      1.528       2.597      3.040
AwrCS&Ltiow                                     42          96         82         188         94         29t             344        34         436         449        534
Outer C.sital                                      -90        -31        -193        -75        -131        269
Choose in lXee -. e'                              -236        410       -192         103       -201         24              -42       -130        -117       -123        -144
:ee.satloelI keev                                 813        399        616         356       1007         926
ot 541.h 6.36 0/                                III        104        134         183        426        491
geodnesi  *  %eat4s Dt Imve.C :1                   4.5        1.5         2.1        1.6         1.9         .3
'975       1976       1977       1976        1979        3980
l&ttev,l Caelttl Sam Debt
' ,os Dieb,ie_ace et 'ALT Loam*                    271.8      410.7       547.7      542.0       548.2      394.2
Coq.eesi*8 aI                                      167.6      305.0      408.1      321.4       274.3       274.7
ltltt-Iate,el                                   71.9       159.7       11.8         0.6        3 .7        4.9
btlaterml                                      114.6       135.0      367.2      351.8       258.9      261.1
IDA                                               1.3       10.3        9.1         9.0        1.7         1.7
oo-Cosso%oe l                                       A4.0      105.7   A 139.6        180.6      273.9       121.5
Pr,vea.                                         63 9        45.8       67.5        23.1       21.2        13.9
Otficis  tecrt Cregits                           16.5       36.9       26.4      I1a.8       153.9       50.1
IUD                                              3.6        23.0       43.7       31.9        14.9        55.5
0tcer 14o11.lher.                                -           -           -         I3.        3.9         2.0
Exter@sI 3e4c
De0t Outscas4o4.  o" Di usod.                      677.7  1l003.0   1,522.0   1.951.4   2,218.3   2.353.5
Ofticijl                                       526.0       835.3   1,335.7   1.773.6   2.053.2   2.221.2
ISA"                                          3.6       26.6        72.3      102.9    1S8.3         235.3
IDA                                           9.4       2!.3        30.1       38.9       40.5        42.1
01h6rg                                      513.0      806.1   1,233.3   1.631.8   1,654.6  13963.8
PrwsC&                                         151.7       149.2      184.3      177.7       165.1      132.2
Un4s.oure-d 1.61                                1i364.9   2.126.A   2.157.0   2,063.8   2.079.5   1.934.3
ToLd  Debt SO-iCe P*Meet                           104.4      106.5       311.0      271.2      382.1       41. 2
Et"Ce'vo                                        17.2       :2.0        29.4       63.4        07.7      103.5
Peec Am & o0 I wfvorts                               7.7         7.4        7.3       17.5         7.3       14.8
A.ers9I 1t,ervet lac. (11. Looo*l2                   3.3        4.0         4.4        4.4         3.7        4. 1
Averste 1N4cu,to  (Il. Loese) Years                 16.3        36.3       16.1       20.3        19.1       14.3
_____ __-Ct___                           A.   ot 3.tbt OuC*caweo% AC End of Moot kocent Year (1980)
leturitv Struemur  of Debt Ocetat.diexa kt)
Asrtti.Aco.n Sw. Witnin 5 Years                                  41.3
Agortijatio    Du"  Withio  10 Years                             69.2
--.erset Srt-c-ure of Debt O.tst.sditt
Ioter..t Due Witbin First Year                                    4.7
/ - prov,sioseI
- 1980 t'q-       t. -  vro-t-t...I
zi - from IIF. Incer,,atio@eil Financoit StStlUcic, 'o. oc total Veerve. vit), -tio.sl veluetion of COI.
11 -     kued AC tlb  end of Period Loow4o  Iteiewt Price                                                                                              arc,h 15. 1982
15144N C? 11-C



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                               Amount (less
Credit                                                                Cancellation)
Number   Year           Borrower                 Purpose        Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and two credits fully disbursed                        25.0   19.9
298     1972       Syrian Arab Republic    Highway                    13.8          4.1
401     1973       Syrian Arab Republic    Water Supply               15.0          0.1
975     1974       Syrian Arab Republic    Irrigation          63.0                34.3
986     1975       Etablissement Public
d'Electricite           Electricity        8.6                  0.2
1144     1975       Etablissement Public
d'Electricite           Electricity       72.0                  7.2
1241     1976       Syrian Arab Republic    Water Supply        35.0                 4.3
1261     1976       Etablissement Public    Telecommuni-
des Telecommunications  cations             28.0                10.4
1311     1976       Syrian Arab Republic    Livestock            5.0                 1.6
1312T    1976       Syrian Arab Republic    Livestock           12.5                 3.9
1458     1977       Syrian Arab Republic    Water Supply        50.0                10.9
1480     1977       Syrian Arab Republic    Education           20.0                 6.3
1531     1978       Etablissement Public
d'Electricite           Electricity       40.0                 40.0
1546     1978       Syrian Arab Republic    Highways            52.1                39.8
1682     1979       Syrian Arab Republic    Drainage            30.0                28.2
1975 1/  1981       Syrian Arab Republic    Education           15.6                15.6
TOTAL                                     456.8   48.7         206.9
Of which has been repaid                    11.0    0.8
Total now outstanding                     445.8   47.9
Amount Sold                                  1.1    0
of which has been repaid                    1.1    0
Total now held by Bank and IDA 2/         445.8   47.9
Total Undisbursed                         202.7    4.2         206.9
B. STATEMENTS OF IFC INVESTMENTS: None
1/ Not yet effective
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit 298 - Second Highway Project; US$13.8 million Credit of April 17, 1972;
Date of EffectEiveness: February 2, 1973; Closing' Date; DeceMber 3L, 1952.
Project implementation was seriously delayed at the beginning due to
the unfavorable political situation in the region. In July 1975, after
several contracts had been awarded, the Government requested the upgrading of
the project roads to four-lane standards as a result of changes in traffic
flows. The Association agreed to changes in the project in 1978, after the
required studies were completed. The project works have been proceeding since
then and the project is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
Credit 401 - Damascus Water Supply Project; US$15 million Credit of June 22,
1973; Date of Effectiveness; February 20, 1974; Closing Date; December 31, 1980
This loan has been closed.
Credit 469/Loan 975 - Balikh Irrigation Project; US$10 million Credit and
US$63 million Loan of April 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 12,
1974; Closing Date; June 30, 1982.
The project, as proposed at appraisal, consists of the development of
irrigation in an area of 41,000 ha in the Balikh River Basin, through
construction of irrigation and drainage works, pumping stations, roads, power
transmission lines and community buildings. Project implementation is
considerably delayed due to technical problems (high soil gypsum content) and
inadequate planning and management. Works have been limited to the
development of the first 10,000 ha part of the project area (Bir Hashim
area). In spite of progress in constructing the irrigation and drainage
works, application of water in this area will not be possible before the Upper
Salhabiya Canal becomes operable (the canal suffered serious damages due to
the presence of gypsum). The Bank has agreed to include its rehabilitation in
the project works. It is estimated that at least 12 more months will be
required for the completion of the rehabilitation of the canal. The project
also faces serious financial problems. Appraisal cost estimates were $170
million with a foreign cost of $73 million. Present cost estimates are about
four times that of appraisal. The cost overrun was due mainly to higher than
expected inflation (the project was appraised before the October 1973 Middle
East war) and to the technical problems. The Government is now considering
rephasing the project, and has requested that the uncommitted portion of the
Bank's loan (about $16.7 million) be used to partially finance the development
of a second 10,000 ha of the project area. The Government and the Bank are
discussing this possible change.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Loan 986 - Mehardeh Power Project; US$25 million Loan of May 23, 1974 and
Supplementary Loan of US$8.6 millio' 'f June  . 1.97'   'tes    v Wff-ctivenesq:
January 30, 1975 and January 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This loan will be closed on March 31, 1982.
Loan 1144 - Second Mehardeh Power Project; US$72 million Loan of July 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: January 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
The project comprises a second 150-MW steam generating unit at
Mehardeh, construction of six and extension of two 230-kV substations, a new
office building'for the Public Electricity Establishment (PEE), organization
and accounting studies and training. Construction of the power plant was
completed in December 1979, construction of the substations is progressing
satisfactorily and the final delay is expected to be minimal. The training
programs and the organizational study of PEE are in progress, although the
training component is behind schedule.
Loan 1241 - Second Damascus Water Supply Project; US$35 million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: January 31, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project, which is co-financed by the Arab Fund and USAID,
provides for the supply components of Damascus' water system and for
training. Construction of the main tunnel and associated reservoirs was
completed in April 1980 and operation began in June 1980. Some minor related
works, also financed by the loan, are scheduled for completion by mid-1982.
Associated works (reservoirs) financed by the Arab Fund are behind schedule,
but should be completed next year.
Loan 1261 - Telecommunications Project, US$28 million Loan of June 9, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project consists of priority works of the State Telecommuni-
cations Enterprise (STE) 1976-1978 investment program including the
installation of telephone connections, trunk exchanges and teleprinters;
expansion of long distance and international facilities; and a training
center. Because of delays in the preparation of bidding documents and in the
evaluation of the long distance microwave equipment, there is an expected
delay in total project completion. However, the contracts have now been
awarded and project works are proceeding satisfactorily. With major tariff
increases effected in early 1981, STE's financial position has substantially
improved and should enable it to undertake its 1981-1985 investment program on
a sound financial footing.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loans 1311/1312T - First Livestock Development Project; US$5 million Loan and
US$12.5 million Third Window Loan of July 22, 1976; Date of Effectiveness;
March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project aims at increasing and stablilizing sheep production and
the incomes of nomadic flockowners and sheep fatteners through stabilization
of feed availability and improvement of veterinary services. Financing is
provided for the purchase of animal feed needs of sheep cooperatives,
strengthening of national animal health services, and technical assistance.
After initial delays in recruiting consultants, project implementation got
underway in April 1978 and is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1458 - Aleppo Water Supply Project; US$50 million Loan of June 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project consists of constructing a 75 km transmission line and
associated pumping facilities from Lake Assad to Aleppo, treatment plant
expansion and extension and improvements to the existing trunk distribution
system. Engineering services for improvements of the sewer systems in Aleppo
and Latakia are also included in the project. The sewerage studies for these
two cities are completed and have been reviewed by a panel of consultants.
The contract for the treatment plant equipment was awarded in August 1980.
Pipe manufacturing is well underway and construction of the pipeline is
progressing as scheduled. Tunnels that have been excavated are being
completed. Engineers and mechanics have been sent to equipment manufacturers
to become familiar with proper operating and maintenance procedures. Training
for treatment plant operators is underway. Works are expected to be completed
by September 30, 1982.
Loan 1480 - First Education Project; US$20 million Loan of September 14, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness:  February 9, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
The project provides for the construction, furnishing and equipping
of five primary teacher training colleges, an intermediate teacher training
institute, three intermediate technical institutes and two vocational training
complexes. The project also includes about 6 man-years of expert services for
the preparation of curricula for the technical institutes, the establishment
of suitable mechanism for coordinating vocational training and technical
education, the development of craft programs and the provision of 33 man-years
of fellowships abroad. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1531 - Regional Electrification Project; US$40 million Loan of May 3,
1978; Date of Effectiveness; July 1, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project is the first stage of a ten-year National Rural
Electrification Program aimed at providing electricity service to all villages
with a population of at least 100 by 1987. The project would provide
electricity service to 900,000 inhabitants in 9 out of 14 provinces in Syria,
including about 150,000 rural households for whom adequate supply of
electricity would be made available for the first time. The project would



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
also serve health care, education and cummunication centers as well as
infrastructure services such as water supply and industries as part of the
Goverment's arive .u increase .6L.-iiidustrial activity and to improve the
quality of life in rural Syria. The effectiveness of the loan was delayed by
almost two years by lack of action on power tariffs, a problem which was
partly resolved in 1980 but which is again a source of problems. The Project
Unit has been established and staffed and award of contracts is in progress.
Loan 1546 - Third Highway Project; US$58 million Loan of May 3, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: November 8, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project supports the Goverment's objectives for the development
of the highway network in line with the current investment program. It would
help stimulate the development of agriculture and industry in the fertile and
rapidly-developing but thinly-populated Northeastern region in Syria and aims
at further strengthening the Government's long-term planning capabilities in
the sector. Works are proceeding on paving and strengthening the
Damascus-Aleppo highway and construction of the Homs Bypass and the
Qantary-Tall Tamir road. Some mobile weigh scales should be delivered
shortly. Bidding for other vehicle control and inventory equipment is
delayed.  US$5.9 million savings under the Loan have been cancelled.
Loan 1682 - Lower Euphrates Drainage Project; US$30 million Loan of May 4,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 11, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
The project would arrest the spread of salinity and improve
agricultural production on about 75,000 ha of land to be irrigated or
previously irrigated on both banks of the Lower Euphrates River in
Northeastern Syria. The project is about one year behind schedule but the
pace of implementation is improving. Work under the well drilling contract is
expected to begin soon. Bids for the contract for electrical transmission
lines have been approved. Consultants' work on hydrological and soil
investigations is proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1975 - Second Education Project; US$15.6 million Loan of January 13,
1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 13, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1986.
The project consists of constructing/extending, equipping and
furnishing of two vocational training centers, three intermediate agricultural
institutes, two health technician institutes, fifty-five school health
centers, and one educational materials development and production center. The
project also includes technical assistance related to the above, for curricula
development, upgrading of administrative and teaching staff, strengthening of
project management and for a preinvestment study for a higher institute for
administrative sciences. Initial implementation actions are proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                 3 years (December 1977-
November 1980)
(b)  Agencies that prepared project:               Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform (MAAR), State
Planning Commission (SPC)
(c)  Initial discussions with the Bank:            December 1977
(d) Bank project preparation assistance
missions:                                     March 1979
May 1979
March 1980
(e)  Pre-appraisal missions:                       September 1980
November 1980
(f)  Appraisal mission:                            March/April 1981
(g)  Date of completion of negotiations:           February 18, 1982
(h)  Planned date of Effectiveness:                August 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III; Special Conditions
(a) Special Condition of Effectiveness:
Ci) The Government to send the Bank satifactory evidence that the
execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of the IFAD Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action and all other conditions precedent to
effectiveness of the said loan have been fulfilled and that the Bank
has been appointed as cooperating institution to administer the Fund
loan (para. 59);



- 33 -
ANNEx iri
Page 2 of 2
(b) Special Condition of Disbursement:
(i)   Disbursements for the farm machinery of the first year of the second
phase of the program would not be made until the Bank is satisfied
that the second phase continues to be justified and that the
Government confirms its intention to complete the Development
Program substantially as planned (para. 47).
(c) Other Special Conditions:
(i)   The Government to maintain Project Coordination Units in Damascus
and Project Implementation Units in Deraa and Sweida, as well as the
Project Steering Committee through project completion (para. 50);
(ii)  The General Organization of Farm Machinery to allocate 20 mobile
repair and maintenance units to the project area by June 30, 1983,
and to establish a maintenance facility in Deraa with capability of
handling major overhauls no later than December 31, 1984 (para. 57);
(iii) The MAAR to establish a farm machinery training program by December
31, 1982 (para. 45);
(iv)  The Government to establish a sub-project appraisal system
satisfactory to the Bank by June 30, 1983 (para. 50);
(v)   The MAAR to design a monitoring and evaluation system and send it to
the Bank by March 31, 1983, and thereafter implement the procedures
agreed with the Bank (para. 46);
(vi)  MAAR and CAB to enter into a Financial and Administrative
Arrangement for the sale of farm machinery to the farmers on credit
and to recover the costs of derocking operations and the
establishment of fruit trees from farmers by December 31, 1982
(para. 60).






U           R     K    El     y                                                 -
TA KIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS01
Wfi00fTEPANH   A   M   A
:   SEA                                                                C"                      E                     E/A      RI ROAD
v i , > \ \ z / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1t  !   \   (   /    Kl- tv  D  A M  A  S  C U S   \  A_                              PROJECT  PROVINCES
0 0 t1   R A E     Uz   f /D A'  0/20 r            0,   0 A                       -I NOTIONAL CAPITAL
=0         p                            '    J  0  R  0  A  N                                                       INTERNATIONAL NAARIES IJ






________________________________________________________________                                                                                             IBRD 15752R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD 1752
DZ  A  M1 A S C U S05 0
r q- ,                                . >    \SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
} /   \               /                .                                               SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/  ) y   D A M A S              C U S                                        Project Area
-_                                     iE E   P-oposrd ERo-rson, Usss
f   J" / ._N . \ --                      P,opossd Asphs t Roods
/'                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposd Groosi Roads
/                                                          I~~\S  /  (                                           KS  0                                 Aspha t Rood,
G,soosI Rood,
Feld Crops DR-oskrg
%  i. 1orra  ~~~~~', y.Snmi                                                                                               \                               ha//   lol Crops Rooof,es
Fru r Tree Arsas
~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                                              .                      A,\  Agrrp,r.rlsI Noroor
-          A    Ago ArMr.l
"V  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     ~    ~ ~          Weol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..hs Sroosr
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WA .. .. U-  T\@\
_.  0   Coons f  Z\ /
5E4 ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  /\-- Pro 'o o    l bo20oor 55
\ '0 w                /        D       A
>ePG  I I'IT                                                                                                             S  Pep/as
J~~~~~~~~~~.<                                    oro      AI  lAa~" 0                                                                                      N  
A I A ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~       A



