OFFICIAL LOAN NUMBER 2124 SYR
DOCUME
Loan Agreement
(Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project)
between
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               ,1982


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     /l o- j      i2         , 1982, between
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B)  the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
fifteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 15,700,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Fund;
(C)   the Fund intends to appoint the Bank as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Bank is prepared
to accept such appointment;
(D)   the BorroTrr intends to make arrangements with the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP) for assistance in
financing consultancy services included in Part E of the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as f they were fully set forth herein


﻿-2-
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions)..
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective  meanings   therein   set  forth   and  the   following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Cooperative 3ank" means the Cooperative Agricultural
Bank of the Borrower established pursuant to Legislative Decree
No. 141 of 1970, or any successor thereto;
(b)   "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account to be
established under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(c)  "Development Program" means the Borrower's program to
develop about 94,000 ha for field crops and about 7,000 ha for
ft it trees in its southern provinces of Deraa and Sweida during
the period January 1, 1982 to December 31, 1989;
(d)    "Phase I" and   "Phase II" mean the parts of the
Development Program to be carried out during the periods of
1982-85 and 1986-89, respectively; and
(e)   "MAAR" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000).
Section 2,02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article III
of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Loan and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and
cancellation set forth in the Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan
Agreement, the amount of the Loan and the amount of the Fund Loan
may be withdrawn from the Loan Account and the Fund Loan Account,
respectively, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement
and with the allocation of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund
Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
allocation may be modified from time to time pursuant to the
provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement between the
Borrower, the Bank and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account and from the Fund Loan Account
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank and the Fund shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods,
works and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Loan or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Bank a written application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Bank or the Fund
shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, with the


﻿-4-
necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall, except as
the Borrower, the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise agree, be
made promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
(b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence in support of the application as the Bank or
the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before or after the
Bank shall have approved any withdrawal requested in the
application.
(c)   Zach application and the accompanying documents and
other evIdence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Bank or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled to
withdraw from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. When the Bank shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Bank shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Loan Account to or
on the order of the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of the Loan Agreement; and/or
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received an
application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account in the aggregate amount specified in such
notice, that it has approved payment of the
portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in the amount set forth in such notice,
and that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund
Loan Account in the amount set forth in such
notice is eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.05. If at any time the amount of the Loan or the
Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled,
applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be
deemed to be requests for withdrawal of the full amount applied
for from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the
provisions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof
shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount
credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been
withdrawn or cancelled.


﻿-5-
Section 3.06. Upon the Borrowe::'s request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Bank may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund, enter into
special commitments to pay amounts, out of the proceeds of the
Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect of the cost of
goods and services required by the Project, subject to the
provisions of this Agreement concerning the allocation and
apportionment of the proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has
advised the Bank that any such special commitment shall, once it
has been notified to the Fund, constitute an obligation on the
part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent
suspension or cancellation of the Fund Loan, the amount to be
disbursed out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan in fulfillment of
such special commitment.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan or the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MAAR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, agricultural and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
SeQtion 4.02. In order to assist the Borrower in training of
MAAR staff in project identification, preparation, appraisal and
supervision techniques and to establish a monitoring and evalua-
tion system under Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall, not
later than April 30, 1983, employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms of reference of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) For the purpose of: (i) arranging sale of
farm machinery to the farmers on credit, and (ii) recovery of the
cost of derocking operations and establishment of fruit trees
from the farmers, the Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1982, enter into an administrative and financial arrangement with


﻿-6-
the Cooperative Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank which shall, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, include
those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)    The Borrower shall exercise     its rights under the
administrative and financial arrangement referred to in paragraph
(a) above in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and except as the Bank shall othe.wise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive said administrative and
financial arrangement or any provision thereof.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the importei goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the ,',ad Loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for 3uch insur-
ance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)    The  Borrower  shall cause   all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor      the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or
the Fund Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's and the Fund's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan or the Fund Loan and any relevant records and documerts;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank and the Fund at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank and the Fund shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan and the goods,
works and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-7-
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial oper-
ation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.06. (a) For the purpose of providing better coord-
ination and guidance to the departments and agencies of the
Borrower implementing the Project or any part thereof, and to
monitor the progress of the Project, the Borrower shall, during
the implementation of the Project, maintain the Project Steering
Committee established by the Borrower pursuant to the Ministerial
Decree No. 343/W dated February 9, 1982 of the Minister of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform.
(b)  In order to assist MAAR in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall, during the implementation of the Project,
maintain: (i) two Project Coordination Units in Damascus estab-
lished pursuant to the Ministerial Decree No. 30/WL dated Jan-
uary 25, 1982 of the Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform;
(ii) the Project Implementation Unit in Deraa established pur-
suant to the Executive Order No. 822 dated December 7, 1981 of
the Director of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, Deraa; and (iii)
the Project Implementation Unit in Sweida established pursuant to
the Executive Order No. 1340 dated December 29, 1981 of the
Director of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, Sweida.
Section 4.07. For the purpose of extending credit to the
farmers through the Cooperative Bank, the Borrower shall, not
later than June 30, 1983, establish in the Project Implementation
Units referred to in Section 4.06 (b) (ii) and (iii) of this
Agreement, a system of sub-project appraisal satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subsidivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿-9-
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts in respect of
the Project referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such yerr, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning accounts, records and expenditures in
respect of the Project, and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. The Borrower undertakes to: (i) develop a com-
prehensive monitoring and evaluation system in respect of the
Development Program; (ii) furnish the proposals to develop said
system to the Bank and the Fund for their comments .ot later than
March 31, 1983; and (iii) implement thereafter such procedures
for monitoring and evaluation as shall be agreed upon among the
Borrower, the Fund and the Bank.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1982, establish in the province of Deraa a training
program for machinery operators and mechanics in consultation
with the Bank.
Section   5.05.  The   Borrower  shall   cause  its   General
Organization for Farm Machinery to: (i) transfer not later than
June 30, 1983 and maintain thereafter, twenty fully equipped
mobile repair and maintenance units to serve the farmers in the
area covered by the Project; and (ii) establish in Deraa, not
later than December 31, 1984, a repair and maintenance facility
capable of performing major overhauls on farm machinery.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿- 10 -
(a) (i) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Fund Loan or any grant made
to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(ii) the Fund Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (i) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) ade-
quate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower   from   other   sources   on  terms   and
C-onditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur,
subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as          an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that the execution and delivery on behalf of the
Borrower of the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action and all other con-
ditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan Agreement
(other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been duly
fulfilled; and the Fund has appointed the Bank as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The dateA    v, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12. 4 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have come
into force and effect and the Loan Agreement shall have failed to
come into foxce and effect by the date specified in Section 7.02
of this Agreement or a later date esiablished by the Bank for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions, or (ii) the
entire principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and all charges which shall have accrued on the Loan
shall ha-e Keen -.a4d before the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
terminated, then, notwithstanding the provisions of Sections
12.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditions, the. Loan Agreement
shall be deemed to be, or to remain, in force and effect but only
to the extent required for the purpose of implementing the Fund
Loan Agreement and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual
interest to the parties thereunder, subject to such modifications
of the Loan Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower,
the Bank and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.04. If: (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall termi-
nate in accordance with its terms before the Loan Agreement shall
have terminated, or (ii) the Bank shall notify the Borrower that
its appointment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan
Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this Agreement shall,
to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan, forthwith
terminate; provided, however, that in the case described in the
foregoing clause (ii), such termination shall apply only to the
responsibilities of the Bank as such Cooperating Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower tor the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 12 -
For the Borrower:
Minister of Agriculture
and Agrarian Reform
Damascus
Syrian Arab Republic
Cable address:                        Telex:
Minister of Agriculture            11089-SY AL-ALAF
and Agrarian Reform
Damascus
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agr-eement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
By fr/ k 0 4-~         o%J
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP NT
By                    C    ZP
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan and the Fund Loan
1.     The   table below     sets forth     the  Categories    of   items   to  be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the      Amount of the          % of            % of
Loan Allocated   Fund Loan Allocated  Expenditures    Expenditures
(Expressed         (Expressed      to be Financed  to be Financed
in Dollar            in SDR          under the       under the
Category     Equivalent)        Equivalent)          Loan         Fund Loan
(1) Derocking    10,450,000          7,460,000     55% of foreign   45% of foreign
equipment                                      expenditures    expenditures
and spares
for field
crops
(2) Farm                                           55% of foreign   45% of foreign
machinery                                      expenditures    expenditures
and spares                                     and 55% oflocal and 45% of local
expenditures     expenditures
(ex-factory)     (ex-factory)
(a) Phase I   5,060,000         3,610,000
(b) Phase II 2,585,000          1,845,000
(3) Vehicles        495,000            350,000     55% of foreign   45% of foreign
and spares                                     expenditures    expenditures
(4) Civil         2,750,000          1,960,000     36%              29%
works
(5) Unallocated     660,000            475,000
TOTAL    22,000,000        15,700,000


﻿- 14 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Bank and the Fund that no pro-
r.eeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan decreases or in-
creases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policies of
the Bank and the Fund.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures:
(i) prior to the date of this Agreement or the date of the
Fund Loan Agreement, whichever shall be the later; and
(ii) to be financed under Category (2) (b) until, based on a
joint review by the Borrower and the Bank of the pro-
gress of development under Phase I, the Bank is satis-
fied with the justification of continuation of develop-
ment under Phase II, and the Borrower has conveyed to
the Bank its intention to complete the Development
Program substantially as planned.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Bank has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan or the Fund Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance


﻿- 15 -
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.     If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Fund Loan and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Bank under the Loan Agreement or of the Fund under the Fund
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan and/or the Fund Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan and/or the Fund Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The  Project   is   designed   to  support   the   Borrower's
Development Program during Phase I on about 30,000 ha and during
the first year of Phase II on about 16,750 ha.        The Project
consists of the following:
Part A:
Field crop development on about 25,400 ha through improve-
ment in mechanized farm operations; reducing fallow; derocking;
provision of farm machinery to the farmers on credit; and
improvement in cultural practices.
Part B:
Fruit tree development on about 4,600 ha through derocking;
levelling; minor terracing, planting; provision of farm machinery
to the farmers on credit; and establishment of orchards.
Part C:
Construction of about 55 km of third-class asphalt roads,
about 55 km of gravel roads, and about 60 km of dirt tracks to
improve access to the farms developed under Parts A and B of the
Project.
Part D:
Strengthening of extension service through establishment and
equipping of 17 extension centers.
Part E:
Provision  of   technical  assistance   to:  strengthen   the
extension service through foreign training of extension staff;
train tractor drivers, mechanics and combine drivers; train
personnel in project identification, preparation, appraisal and
supervision techniques; and to set up a system for monitoring and
evaluating the Development Program and extension services.


﻿- 17 -
Part F:
Provision of equipment, materials, staff and facilities for
the Project Coordination Units in Damascus and Project TMplement-
ation Units in the provinces of Deraa and Sweida.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1986
through   September 1, 1998                  850,000
On March 1, 1999                                  750,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                7.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                               10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                               11.60%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.     For goods to 'be procured on the basis of international
competitive   bidding,   in  addition   to  the   requirements  of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, equipment shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more
each.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,


﻿- 21 -
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Syria may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.     All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Syria
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Syria equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 22 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Civil works may be carried out on       the basis of
competitive   bidding  advertised   locally  in   accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.      Contracts   for  equipment  estimated   to  cost  the
equivalent of $100,000 each or less may be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided, that the aggregate
of such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's  concurrence  before   it  is  issued  to  the  prospective
bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,


﻿- 23 -
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect
of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
pe-agraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿-24-
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms of the Administrative
and Financial Arrangement*
A.   For the purpose of sale of farm machinery and cost recovery
of derocking operations and establishment of fruit trees, the
Cooperative Bank will make sub-loans to the c-operatives and
individual farmers on the following terms:
1.   Farm Machinery
(a) cooperatives: interest rate of not less than 4% per
annum.
(b)  individual     interest rate of not less than 5 1/2%
farmers:       per annum.
(c) repayment:      within 5 years including up to one year
of grace.
2.   Fruit Trees (Establishment Including Derocking)
(a) cooperatives: interest rate of not less than 2% per
annum for first 5 years and not less
than 4% per annum thereafter.
(b) individual      interest rate of not less than 3% per
farmers:       annum for first 5 years and not less
than 5 1/2% per annum thereafter.
(c) repayment:      within 10 years including up to 5 years
of grace.
3.   Field Crops (Derocking)
(a) cooperatives: interest rate of not less than 4% per
annum.
(b) individual      interest rate of not less than 5 1/2%
farmers:       pe- annum.
(c) repayment:      within 5 years including up to
one year of grace.


﻿- 25 -
B.   The Cooperative Bank will retain 2% par annum as administra-
tive fee on all transactions and repay the principal and balance
of interest earnings to the Borrower on the same repayment terms
as the Loan to the Borrower.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of.  lt  , 198 o.
FOR SECRETARY


