Report No. PID9490
Project Name                     Georgia-Energy Transit Institution Building
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Oil & Gas Transportation
Project ID                       GEPE72394
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA
Implementing Agency
Address SRSP PIU,GIOC,GGIC,MINISTRY OF
ENVIRONMENT
Note: "Borrowing agency" in financing plan
above refers to GIOC and GGIC.
SRSP PIU, 42, Al. Kazbegi Ave., Tbilisi,
380077, Georgia
Contact Person: Alexander Sikharulidze
Tel: 995 32 950 865
Fax: 995 32 001 303
Email: A.Sikharulidze@wanex.net
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                December 13, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         December 11, 2000 (Actual)
Projected Board Date             February 6, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Georgia's geographical location affords it considerable potential for
the transit of Caspian oil and gas to market. The country already
transits crude oil from Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan to
international markets, and natural gas from Russia to Armenia.
Negotiations are underway for various major pipeline projects including
the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline, and transit of gas from Azerbaijan,
Russia, Turkmenistan, and Kazakhstan to Turkey and beyond. Realization of
Georgia's transit potential has enormous economic and political
significance.
2. Objectives
The proposed project will increase the capacity of key state agencies to
negotiate and implement pipeline transit agreements and other large
infrastructure projects on behalf of the Government. Current plans
envisage transit pipeline investments of about US$ 1 billion in Georgia,
which would be of substantial macroeconomic significance. Net fiscal
benefits from such investments will be maximized with assistance from the
project, and the social and environmental impact will be more effectively
managed. Georgia will establish itself as a reliable host country for
similar investments, and public perception of those investments will be
enhanced. The target population includes the whole of Georgia.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Value-added derives from the Bank's regional overview of Caspian oil and
gas developments, and its international experience in large infrastructure



projects (particularly the Bank's evolving experience in social and
environmental mitigation of pipeline projects). The Government values the
political and commercial neutrality of the Bank in this complex area.
4. Description
A. Environmental and Technical Advice for Pipeline Implementation will
include consultancy to assist the Government in fulfilling its obligations
under oil and gas pipeline transit agreements on a timely basis (Georgia
incurs substantial liabilities if there are delays against very short
deadlines in the agreements). These services will focus on reviewing
environmental/social impact assessments, permitting, compliance
monitoring, and public outreach. The component will thus go beyond
environmental impact assessment, and will strengthen long-term
environmental management capacity. This will involve environmental,
social, technical, and public communications consultants (international
and local) to address oil and gas transit issues jointly. It will also
include technical/environmental advisors for negotiations of transit of
gas from (or through) Russia (technical advisors for negotiation of
East-West gas transit have been provided by USTDA). B. Legal Advice for
Pipeline Implementation will include specialized pipeline lawyers to
advise the Government on legal issues arising from implementation of the
various transit agreements negotiated, including the revision of Georgian
legislation where necessary. Financial or fiscal skills may also be
needed to complement legal advisory skills. These advisors will only be
needed once existing consultancy contracts (financed by the Structural
Reform Support Project, SRS) expire, and precise terms of reference will
be elaborated at that time.
C. Non-pipeline Oil Spill Prevention and Mitigation Component will
address oil spill risks related to marine and rail transportation of oil,
through (i) the provision of essential equipment to facilitate spill
response, monitoring and enforcement by the Ministry of Environment; (ii)
consultant services; and (iii) training. D. Project Implementation will be
provided by the Project Implementation Unit currently managing the
technical assistance component of the Structural Reform Support Project
and the Judicial Reform Project, in conjunction with GIOC, GGIC, the
Ministry of Environment and other agencies responsible under the transit
agreements. This component will provide for office equipment, annual
audit of the project accounts, incremental operating costs and related
needs.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       12.29
(US$ 2.15 m of which is identifiable taxes and duties)
6. Implementation
Procurement, financial management, and general oversight under the
project will be handled by the Project Implementation Unit currently
implementing the technical assistance component of the Structural Reform
Support Project and the Judicial Reform Project (the PIU is attached to
the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Trade). This PIU has seven years'
experience implementing Bank-financed projects involving multiple
agencies, and has a proven track record.    Technical implementation of
project components for oil pipelines will be handled by GIOC, for gas
pipelines by GGIC, and for non-pipeline oil spill issues by the Ministry
- 2 -



of Environment. However, given the complex nature of transit agreements,
these designated core agencies will interact with numerous other agencies
in implementation of the project. Some consultancy contracts under the
project may be shared by GIOC and GGIC, and a Steering Committee has been
established to ensure coordination. The Steering Committee is also
intended to serve as a forum for interagency coordination beyond
implementation of the proposed project. Project implementation is
estimated to last four years. This estimate is based on expectations of
the date at which pipeline operations might commence. On current
expectations, the assistance planned under the proposed project will be
needed from early 2001, and hence the project should not be delayed.
However, the evolution of project implementation is subject to
considerable uncertainty, given the complex nature of the pipeline
investment decisions. A mid-term review early in the project life (June
2002) will assess actual implementation of pipeline investments against
this background of uncertainty. Any project component which has not
progressed by this time will be subject to restructuring or cancellation.
In addition, most contracts under the project will be time-based, which
will mitigate the risk that pipeline investments do not progress as
anticipated.
7. Sustainability
It is critical to the sustainability of project benefits that transit
pipelines retain high-level political support in Georgia, but that
political objectives do not overwhelm economic, social and environmental
considerations in order to ensure broad-based stakeholder ownership. It
is important that state agencies with divergent objectives (in particular
GIOC and GGIC) manage to coordinate their activities. In addition, the
sustainability of project benefits will be enhanced if foreign investors
in transit pipelines behave as good corporate citizens.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The main lessons learnt from previous Bank involvement in technical
assistance for transit pipelines in Georgia are (i) there is a need for
flexibility in project design to reflect considerable uncertainty in
pipeline implementation schedules; (ii) events can move very fast, and
timely response is essential; and (iii) Bank management involvement is
critical.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Since the project consists of technical assistance
services, and scientific equipment related to studies, the project is
classified as a Category C. Neither an environmental assessment nor an
EMP are required. The project itself has a major environmental management
focus by assisting in the review of the environmental reports that will be
submitted for construction of pipeline facilities. Under the project,
technical assistance to government agencies will be provided to ensure
that adequate review of environmental studies is carried out for the major
oil and gas transit pipelines, and that compliance with permitting
requirements and liability legislation is effectively monitored. Public
consultation and outreach form an integral part of that process. For
non-pipeline oil spill prevention, a separate project component of
technical assistance is included.
- 3-



11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jonathan D. Walters
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-2468
Fax: 202-477-8518
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
December 15, 2000.
-4-



