Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3473 GE
Development Credit Agreement
(Energy Transit Institution Building Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 25, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3473 GE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 25, 2001, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS (B) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement,;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
Page  2
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement;
(c)
"GGIC" means the Georgian Gas International Corporation;
(d)
"GIOC" means the Georgian International Oil Corporation;
(e)
"Ministry of Finance-GIOC Agreement" means the agreement entered into 
between the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and GIOC on November 27, 2000, 
governing the financial relations between the Borrower and GIOC; 
(f)
"PIU" means the Institution Building Project Implementation Unit, 
established pursuant to Decree No. 315 of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower 
dated May 18, 1994;
(g)
"Project Account" means the account in the currency of the Borrower 
referred to in Section 3.06 and Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(h)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 7,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
Page  3
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Association, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d)  below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2011, and ending December 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2020, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
Page  4
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the GIOC, GGIC, the Ministry of Environment and other agencies 
responsible under the transit agreements for transportation of hydrocarbons through 
the territory of the Borrower, all with assistance in procurement and disbursement 
matters by the PIU and all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a)  During the implementation of the Project, commencing with 
coverage of Government Budget year 2002, the Borrower shall conduct the financial 
relations between the Borrower and GIOC and GGIC, in accordance with agreements to be 
entered into between the Government and GIOC and GGIC, respectively, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, such terms and conditions to be 
consistent, in both cases, with the Ministry of Finance-GIOC Agreement.   
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the main points of the agreements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section shall be published in the Georgian press within 
one month of conclusion of thereof. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of  
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain, under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Association, the Project Steering Committee with a composition including at 
least the PIU director, representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Environment 
of the Borrower, GGIC and GIOC.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall open and thereafter maintain in a bank 
Page  5
acceptable to the Association an account  (Project Account), wherein it shall deposit 
an amount from its own resources sufficient to cover the portion of counterpart 
financing requirements for local expenditures for which the Borrower is responsible 
under the Project financing plan and which are projected to be made under the Project 
in the three months succeeding. Except as otherwise agreed by the Association, the 
balance in the Project Account, as of the first day of each quarter, shall  not be 
less than $100,000.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be maintained by the PIU a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and shall cause to be 
prepared by the PIU financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
Page  6
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause the PIU to implement the financial management 
system action plan by June 30, 2001, in accordance with the Terms of Reference agreed 
with the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower has entered into agreements acceptable to the Association 
between GIOC and the Borrower, and between GGIC and the Borrower, governing financial 
relations between the Borrower and GIOC and GGIC with effect from Government Budget 
year 2001, and the main points of the agreements have been published in the territory 
of the Borrower; 
(b)
the project Steering Committee has been appointed with membership and 
mandate acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account with deposit of an initial 
amount of US$100,000.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  7
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
70, Irakli Abashidze Str.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
Facsimile:
212 348 MOFIN SV
(995-32) 221-754
(995-32) 235-416
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.
GEORGIA
By /s/ Zurab Nogaideli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Tevfik Yaprak
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods and equipment
   500,000 
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and
80% of other local
expenditures
Page  8
(2)
Consultants’ services 
 6,300,000
80%
and training (except 
auditing services 
under Part C of 
the Project)
(3)
Auditing Services under     80,000
50%
Part C of the Project
(4)
Incremental 
   370,000
100% 
Operating Costs
(5)
Unallocated
   350,000
TOTAL
7,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures as approved by 
the Association on the basis of budgets acceptable to the Association with respect to 
the implementation of the Project by the PIU on account of office supplies, audit of 
the Project account, utilities, office equipment and furniture, salaries of the PIU 
staff (other than government officials, GGIC, and GIOC staff), communications, 
transportation and translation expenses and minor office refurbishment.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (b) services for: (i) individuals 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; and (iii) incremental operating costs, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project  is to enhance the capacity of the Borrower to 
negotiate and implement oil and gas transit agreements in a manner that maximizes 
economic benefits, and minimizes social and environmental costs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A.
Environmental and Technical Advice for Pipeline Implementation 
Provision of consultants’ services to assist the Borrower in negotiating oil and 
gas pipeline transit agreements and fulfilling its obligations under such agreements 
on a timely basis, including environmental, social, technical, and public relations 
consultants.
Part B.
Legal Advice for Pipeline Implementation 
Provision of legal advisory and related financial and fiscal policy services to 
Page  9
assist the Borrower in issues arising from implementation of the various transit 
agreements negotiated, including recommendations for the revision of Georgian 
legislation where necessary.
Part C.
Company Audits 
Provision of auditing services to perform annual financial audits (according to 
internationally-accepted standards) for GIOC and GGIC to enhance transparency of 
company operations (audits are to be published in the Georgian press).  
Part D.
Non-pipeline Oil Spill Prevention and Mitigation Component 
Provision of essential equipment, consultant services, and training to 
facilitate oil spill response, monitoring and enforcement by the Ministry of 
Environment and other responsible agencies.
Part E.
Project Implementation  
Strengthening the capacity of  the PIU to manage the Project in conjunction with 
GIOC, GGIC, the Ministry of Environment and other agencies responsible under the 
transit agreements, through the provision of office equipment, annual audit of the 
project accounts, incremental operating costs and related needs.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
Page  10
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $660,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.5and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I, Part B of this Schedule, and the first two contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I, Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultant services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the  company audits under Part C of the Project, and for training 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for the Project Account audits under Part E of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
Page  11
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to  each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Project Steering Committee shall be responsible for coordination of actions 
by agencies of the Borrower with respect to the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Project Steering Committee, in cooperation with the Association, shall carry 
out a Mid-Term Review of the Project, no later than June 30, 2002, to evaluate the 
progress of the Project and to determine if there is a need for any revisions in the 
Project planning.
3.
The Borrower will submit to the Association through the Steering Committee, a 
quarterly progress report, in a format satisfactory to the Association, not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter outlining progress made in the 
implementation of the Project, as well as the problems encountered and how they are 
being addressed.
4.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the PIU under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers, which shall be responsible for the implementation of the Project.
5.
The Borrower, through the Steering Committee, shall:
Page  12
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association within sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar year 
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association within ninety (90) days after the end of each 
calendar year, or such later date as the Association shall request, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Association’s views thereon.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $960,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $480,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR  1,100,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  13
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  14
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
