                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000957




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-34730)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.6 MILLION
                        (US$ 9.63 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO

                                   GEORGIA

                                    FOR AN

             ENERGY TRANSIT INSTITUTION BUILDING PROJECT


                                  June 25, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective 02/04/2009)

                         Currency Unit = Lari
                          1.96 Lari = US$1.00
                          US$0.51 = 1.00 Lari


                            FISCAL YEAR


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BSP     Baku Supsa Pipeline
BPEO    Best Practice Environmental Option
BTC     Baku Tbilisi Ceyhan
BTE     Baku Tbilisi Erzurum
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDM     Clean Development Mechanism
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
EDDF    Emergency Drain Down Facility
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
ERA     Environmental Risk Assessment
ERP     Emergency Response Plan
ESIA    Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
ESMP    Environmental and Social Management Plan
ETIB    Energy Transit Institution Building
FMR     Financial Management Report
FY      Fiscal Year
HGA     Host Government Agreement
IAS     International Accounting Standards
GIC     Georgian Gas Corporation
GGIC    Georgian Gas International Corporation
GIOC    Georgian International Oil Corporation
GIS     Geographic Information System
GOGC    Georgian Oil and Gas Corporation
ISR     Implementation Status Report
MOE     Ministry of Environment
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
MTR     Mid Term Review
NGO     Non Government Organization
NSP     North South Pipeline
OSRP    Oil Spill Response Plan
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
SC      Steering Committee
SCP     South Caucasus Pipeline
SDR     Special Drawing Rights

     Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
   Country Director: Asad Alam
    Sector Manager: Ranjit J. Lamech
Project Team Leader: Joseph Melitauri
  ICR Team Leader: Joseph Melitauri

                                                     GEORGIA
                         Energy Transit Institution Building Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 21
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 22
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 24
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 25
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 26
 Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 39
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40
 Annex 10. Timelines of World Bank Projects and Oil and Gas Pipeline Implementation
 Progress......................................................................................................................... 41
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Energy Transit
Country:                Georgia               Project Name:          Institution Building
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P072394               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34730
ICR Date:               06/26/2009            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                   Borrower:
                                                                     GEORGIA
Original Total
                        XDR 7.6M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 7.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Environment Protection and Natural Resources
Georgian International Oil Corporation
Georgian Gas International Corporation
Institution Building PIU
Georgian Oil and Gas Corporation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/01/2000    Effectiveness:                           11/19/2001
                                                                              02/17/2005
Appraisal:             12/11/2000    Restructuring(s):
                                                                              03/07/2007
Approval:              03/13/2001    Mid-term Review:                         11/15/2003
                                     Closing:             07/31/2005          08/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

Overall Bank                                 Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory         Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators          (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                 Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             62                62
Law and justice                                                9                 9
Oil and gas                                                   29                29


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                        29               29
Other rule of law                                              14               14
Other trade and integration                                    29               29
Pollution management and environmental health                  28               28


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Asad Alam                       Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:           Ranjit J. Lamech                Peter D. Thomson
Project Team Leader:      Joseph Melitauri                Peter D. Thomson
ICR Team Leader:          Joseph Melitauri
ICR Primary Author:       Joseph Melitauri



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aims to enhance the capacity of Georgia to negotiate and implement oil and
gas transit agreements in a manner that maximizes economic benefits, and minimizes


                                            ii

social and environmental costs.          Georgia has considerable potential for transit of
hydrocarbons, particularly by comparison to its other economic assets.                  However,
realizing positive net benefits from large transit investments (in a very complex
geopolitical context) requires very careful management by the State and substantial
institution building.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Expected benefits actually realized
                Very limited capacity
                exists in Georgia to       The Government
                                           is monitoring the                 The Government is

Value           implement oil and gas      construction and                  monitoring post-

quantitative or transit agreements so that operation of the                  construction and

Qualitative)    economic benefits are                                        operation of the
                maximized and social       transit pipelines                 pipelines relying on
                and environmental costs    relying heavily on                its own resources.
                are minimized              its own resources

Date achieved 04/12/2001                   08/31/2008                        08/31/2008
Comments        The Government is using the High Ecological Risk Unit to monitor post
(incl. %        construction and operation of the pipelines. The unit is funded from the Budget.
achievement)    100% achieved.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval         Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Fulfillment of legal agreements and legislation under the pipeline transit
                agreements and Georgian law.
                                           Construction of
                                           the transit                       Construction of the
                                           pipelines has                     transit pipelines has

Value           No legal agreements        started on the basis              started on the basis

(quantitative   dealing with transit issuesof an approved                    of HGA for transit

or Qualitative) existed                    ESIA and a HGA                    of oil and natural
                                           for transit of oil                gas purchase
                                           and gas and                       agreements, and
                                           natural gas                       approved ESIA.
                                           purchase
Date achieved 04/12/2001                   08/31/2008                        08/31/2008


                                                iii

Comments
(incl. %        Target value is achieved 100 %. Construction and operation of the pipeline was

achievement)    based on the conditional approval of ESIA and addendum to ESIA.

Indicator 2 :   Benefits realized from legal interpretation of transit agreements and legislative
                amendments adopted as necessary for this purpose
                                                                               Georgia has
                Little knowledge and                                           negotiated and
                experience of                                                  entered into the
                interpretation and           Sales and purchase                sales and purchase

Value           application of provisions agreements for                       agreement for

(quantitative   of transit agreement, as     option and                        option and

or Qualitative) well as conducting           supplemental gas                  supplemental gas.
                negotiation on legal         volumes are                       From 2007 Georgia
                aspects of additional        negotiated                        has been receiving
                project agreements                                             option and
                existed.                                                       supplemental gas.

Date achieved 04/12/2001                     08/31/2008                        08/31/2008
Comments        Target is met 100 %. Georgia fully benefits from the favorable terms of the gas
(incl. %       purchase agreement which defined price and volumes of option and
achievement)    supplemental gas.
Indicator 3 :   GIOC and GGIC audit reports prepared to international standards and published
                                             Both GGIC and

Value           GIOC and GGIC were           GIOC are                          GOGC has carried
(quantitative   carrying out audits to       preparing audits to               out audit for 2006
or Qualitative) Georgian standards           international
                                             accounting                        based on the IAS.

                                             standards (IAS)
Date achieved 04/12/2001                     08/31/2008                        08/31/2008
Comments        Target is met by 70 %. The GOGC received auditors disclaimer for 2006. An
(incl. %        unqualified audit report may not be produced although, GOGC took appropriate
achievement)   steps such as asset counting and asset revaluation to improve the audit report.
                Actual examples of MoE enforcement of compliance with liability legislation
Indicator 4 :   and technical standards to prevent/ mitigate oil spills, and spill mitigation where
                MoE is directly responsible

                                             National marine                   National marine
                National marine oil spill                                      and land based oil
                response plan in near        and land based oil                spill response plans

Value           final draft. A first draft ofspill reponse plans               have been finalized.
                a national land based oil    finalized.
(quantitative                                Organization                      Organizations have

or Qualitative) spill reponse plan has                                         been established
                been prepared. No            established for                   and adequate
                organizational capacity in   spill response                    equipment provided
                MoE for spill reponse.       management in
                                             MoE.                              for spill response
                                                                               management.
Date achieved 03/18/2005                     08/31/2008                        08/31/2008
Comments        Target is achieved by 50 %, for land based oil spill organizational setup is not
(incl. %       fully adequate. Though finalized, land and marine oil spill response plans have
achievement)   not been approved by the Government.



                                                   iv

Indicator 5 :  No breaches of procurement, contract management, and financial management of
               the project identfied on review.

Value          PIU was aware of WB        Beneficiaries are                  Beneficiaries are

(quantitative  procurement guidelines     following the                      following the

or Qualitative)but beneficiaries were     procurement                        procurement
               less aware.                guidelines.                        guidelines.
Date achieved 04/12/2001                  08/31/2008                         08/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Target achieved by 100 %. Beneficiaries have successfully completed a number

achievement)   of procurements following the Bank and other IFI procurement guidelines.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                        IP                 Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     04/12/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/20/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     06/25/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.48
  4     12/23/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.86
  5     06/25/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      2.35
  6     12/30/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      3.31
  7     06/03/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      3.72
  8     11/10/2004           Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                     4.86

  9     04/12/2005           Satisfactory               Moderately
                                                     Unsatisfactory                      6.29

  10    05/19/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      6.29
  11    08/22/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      6.29

  12    01/24/2006    Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately
                                                     Unsatisfactory                      7.38

  13    05/19/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      7.69
  14    06/28/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      8.43
  15    06/30/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     10.15



H. Restructuring (if any)

                                ISR Ratings at     Amount

 Restructuring      Board       Restructuring Disbursed at       Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)      Approved                      Restructuring
                PDO Change                                            Key Changes Made
                                  DO       IP       in USD
                                                   millions
                                                                Restructuring of the credit
                                                                entailed reallocation of
   02/17/2005         N            S       U            5.32    uncommitted funds under the
                                                                credit. The uncommitted funds
                                                                included unallocated funds and



                                               v

                        ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring   Board   Restructuring Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)    Approved                Restructuring
             PDO Change                                  Key Changes Made
                         DO     IP      in USD
                                        millions
                                                   the excess funds due to the
                                                   appreciation of the SDR against
                                                   US$. The funds were allocated
                                                   for; the extension of the
                                                   environmental and technical
                                                   advisors for GIOC, extension
                                                   of technical advisor for GGIC,
                                                   provision of the oil spill
                                                   training and purchase of
                                                   equipment, operating cost of the
                                                   PIU, and provision for the legal
                                                   advisor
                                                   Restructuring of the credit
                                                   entailed reallocation of the
                                                   credit savings to purchase gas

  03/07/2007      N       S      S          8.16   flow monitoring equipment for
                                                   GIC, 4 wheel drive vehicles for
                                                   monitoring unit of the MOE,
                                                   and provision of legal and
                                                   forestry advisors to the MOE




I. Disbursement Profile




                                     vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Georgia's neighboring countries include Armenia, Azerbaijan, Russia, and Turkey. Georgia
borders with the Black Sea to the west and with Azerbaijan to the east. Georgia has always been a
transit route between the east and west. Historically, goods and other commodities were
transported through Georgia as part of the Silk Road trade. Rising investment in the Azerbaijan
and Central Asia oil and gas sector has increased the country's significance as a conduit for oil
and gas to western markets.

To capitalize on its potential as a transit country, in the early 1990's Georgia began to develop oil
and gas transit infrastructure. An oil pipeline, Baku Supsa (BSP), was constructed in 1998 and
Baku Tbilisi Ceyhan (BTC) oil and Baku Tbilisi Erzurum (BTE) gas pipelines were under
discussion.

Rapid development of Georgia's potential in oil and gas transit yielded economic benefits, but the
cost has been exposure to a range of financial, social, and environmental liabilities caused by the
new transit projects. Implementation of the oil and gas transit projects required timely responses
from the Government, while delays would lead to severe penalties. The transit agreements
required the government to review and approve various technical and environmental documents
concerning the transit pipeline construction and operation in a very short timeframe. Delays of the
approvals could have led to undesirable environmental and social mismanagement. As a result,
Georgia sought specialized expertise in hydrocarbon transit negotiations and environmental
management from donors. The World Bank provided funding for an Oil Institution Building
project (approved by the Board on April 8, 1997, closed December 31, 2000) to help Georgia lay
the foundation for implementing transit agreements and enhancing negotiating capacity so the
country could maximize benefits from oil transit.

However, further development of transit infrastructure and the discovery of new gas deposits in
Azerbaijan in the late 1990's, precipitated complex contractual, environmental, financial, legal,
and social issues for Georgia. As a result, even though the Oil Institution Building Project had
strengthened capacity, challenges associated with future increases in oil and gas transit required
Georgia to seek additional support in these areas.

The multifaceted nature of oil and gas transit issues exceeded the mandates of institutions directly
responsible for oil and gas, such as the Georgian Oil International Corporation (GIOC) and
Georgian Gas International Corporation (GGIC), and required the involvement of the Ministries
of Environment (MOE), Finance, and Culture, cadastral services and land registrars, among other
government services and institutions. In addition, the increasing scale of potential transit projects
enlarged their political and social significance, exposing the project to a diverse and influential
civil society, expanding the role of government, and enlarging potential risks.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project aimed to enhance Georgia's capacity to negotiate and implement oil and gas transit
agreements in a manner that maximized economic benefits, and minimized social and
environmental costs. Georgia has considerable potential for hydrocarbon transit, particularly by
comparison to its other economic assets. However, realizing positive net benefits from large
transit investments (in a highly complex geopolitical context) required very careful management
by the State and substantial institution building.


                                                   1

The key performance indicator for the achievement of the PDO was the following:
     Expected benefits from the transit pipelines actually realized. The target value for that
        indicator was: the Government is monitoring the construction and operation of the transit
        pipelines relying heavily on its own resources i.e. Ministry of Environment.

The output indicators at the project design stage included the following:
     Fulfillment of transit agreements and Georgian legislation.
     Benefits realized from the interpretation of the transit agreements and legislative
        amendments adopted as necessary for this project;
     GIOC and GGIC audit reports prepared to international standards and published;
     Examples of Ministry of Environment (MOE) enforcement of compliance legislation and
        technical standards to prevent/mitigate oil spills, and demonstrated examples of spill
        mitigation if MOE is directly responsible; and
     No breaches of procurement contract management and no breaches of financial
        management identified during the project implementation reviews.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The original project development objectives were maintained throughout the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
Beneficiaries of the project included the following:
 Ministry of Environment
 Georgian International Oil Corporation
 GGIC, which was later renamed as Georgian Gas Corporation (GIC)
On March 21, 2006 GIOC, GIC, and Saqnavtobi, which then was the national company
responsible for oil exploration, production, and sales, were merged into Georgian Oil and Gas
Corporation (GOGC). The GOGC became the legal successor of the GIOC and GIC.

1.5 Original Components (as approved) I assume this is directly from the PAD
The Project comprised the following five components:

Component 1. Environmental and Technical Advice for Pipeline Implementation, included
consultancy services to assist the GIOC, GIC, and the MOE to fulfill obligations under oil and
gas pipeline transit agreements on a timely basis. These services focused on review of
environmental/social impact assessments (ESIAs), environmental management plans, permitting,
environmental and social compliance monitoring, and public outreach. In addition, this
component aimed to strengthen beneficiaries' long-term environmental management capacity.

Component 2. Legal Advice for Pipeline Implementation included specialists to advise the
Government on legal issues arising from negotiating and implementing transit agreements. Legal
advice included revision of Georgian legislation where necessary, and supplementary financial or
fiscal skills. These advisors were needed only after pre-existing consultancy contracts financed by
the Structural Reform Support Project expired.

Component 3. Company Audit, included financial audits based on international standards to be
conducted and published annually for GIOC and GGIC to enhance transparency of company
operations. The credit financed the partial cost of company audits in the first year of the project
only.

                                                 2

Component 4. Non-Pipeline Oil Spill Prevention and Mitigation addressed oil spill risks related
to marine and rail transportation of oil through (i) the provision of essential equipment to
facilitate spill response, monitoring, and enforcement by the Ministry of Environment; (ii)
consultant services; and (iii) training.

Component 5. Project Implementation was provided by existing Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) which managed components of the Structural Reform Support Project and the Judicial
Reform Project, in conjunction with GIOC, GIC, the Ministry of Environment, and other agencies
responsible for the transit agreements. This component also provided funding for office
equipment, annual audit of project accounts, incremental operating costs, and related needs.

1.6 Revised Components
Revisions were introduced throughout project implementation and were mostly driven by rapid
implementation of the transit pipelines. Most revisions were formalized after the mid-term review
(MTR) carried out in November 2003. Revisions included the following:

Component 1. The initial component design envisaged one large scale tendering for the
environmental advisor. However, the implementation challenges and delays in procurement
necessitated modification. Instead of one tendering, four consecutive procurements were
conducted for the environmental advisors. The modification was agreed between the Bank and
Borrower. In addition, the MTR identified savings in the credit caused by increased SDR value
against the US$. The savings were then used to procure additional environmental advisor. As a
result five tenderings were conducted instead of one for the environmental advisor.

Component 2. This component envisaged two legal advisors, one for GIOC and one for GGIC.
However the advisor intended for the GIC and Gazexport negotiations was canceled as the Bank
and Borrower could not agree on the scope of work for, or the duration of the assignment. The
changes in the Government energy policy in 2003 led to suspension of the negotiations with
Gazexport, thus there was no need for the negotiation advisor.

Component 3. The Credit agreement mandated funding of an audit for the first year, but it was
not clear whether audit for the following years was also required and if this requirement was
legally binding. It was subsequently agreed to fund the audits throughout Credit implementation,
and the Bank and the Borrower amended the Development Credit Agreement on June 29, 2006,
to make yearly audits mandatory, legally binding, and based on internationally accepted
accounting standards.

Component 4. Procurements for the land-based and marine-based consultancies were originally
intended to be separate tenderings. However, due to component implementation delays and
efficiency improvements, the two were merged into one.

1.7 Other significant changes

Although the project was conceived as combined technical assistance and specialized equipment
for oil spill response, project implementation brought about a need to support additional
equipment acquisition. In addition, to increase the accountability and transparency of pipeline
operations and the precision of gas flow metering, GIC needed gas flow monitoring equipment. It
was therefore decided at the MTR to reallocate savings from the Credit resulting from the
increased value of the SDR against the US$ (a total of 2.45 million SDRs), and at the same time
reallocate remaining uncommitted funds. The Bank and the Borrower also agreed at this time to

                                                3

fund Geographical Information System (GIS) software and collection of the geographical
information of the key gas infrastructure.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project quality-at-entry was satisfactory. The Bank had prior experience in similar institutional
capacity building projects from implementing the Georgian Institution Building, Structural
Adjustment, and Oil Institution Building Projects, (P008413, P034583, and P044830),
respectively -- although the complexity of environmental, social, legal, and technical issues in this
project required a level of assistance beyond what had been done previously.

The ETIB project preparation overlapped with the completion of the Oil Institution Building
Project and implementation of the Structural Reform Support Project. This allowed lessons
learned to be incorporated into the design of ETIB.

Particular attention was given to ensuring government ownership of the project, especially with
regard to decision-making. In order to develop consensus and a sense of ownership among project
beneficiaries, the Bank proposed setting up a Steering Committee (SC), comprising all
beneficiaries and headed by the Minister of Finance; SC members included GIOC and GIC
directors and the Minister of Environment. It is noteworthy, that the SC was established by a
presidential decree in order to have adequate authority to efficiently coordinate the beneficiaries.
The successful operation of the SC was seen as crucial and therefore, a SC coordinator was hired
and funded under the credit.

The Energy Transit Institution Building project was a natural continuation of the activities funded
under the Oil Institution Building project, and Structural Reform Support project. These projects
had demonstrated that timely delivery of services and sustained involvement of consultants
increased the efficiency of a technical assistance project.

In order to expedite delivery of the environmental advisory services, the terms of reference were
prepared prior to the approval of the ETIB project, and the procurement process for the consultant
started at an early stage of implementation. The project also provided adequate funding to
accommodate long-term and sustained involvement of the environmental and technical
consultants. Two large contracts for the environmental and technical advisors were envisaged in
the project for component 1, which served the borrower throughout the entire project.

The Structural Reform Support project demonstrated the value of having a high level negotiation
advisor; therefore the ETIB design included legal advisory services as a component. The Oil
Institution Project gave a useful indication for the need and the scope of environmental and
technical advisory services.

The Bank and Government policy dialogue helped the Bank to match the transit pipelines
progress with the Government's need for the environmental and technical advisors. The size of
the environmental, legal and technical components reflected a need for continued engagement of
the consultant throughout the transit pipeline implementation. In summary, the ETIB project had
adequate structure and content, sufficient funding for each component and a good organizational
setup to achieve the development objectives.



                                                 4

2.2 Implementation
Although project implementation suffered a series of complications and delays, major
implementation milestones were met. The following factors affected project implementation:

Two factors contributed to a timely start of project implementation: first, the beneficiaries were
exceptionally proactive because their need for expertise in oil and gas transit negotiations was
acute; and second, preparatory work such as the Requests for Proposals (RFPs) for the major
environmental and technical advisors were prepared and agreed with the Bank and Borrower
under previous operations. As a result, from 2001 to 2003, the key legal, environmental, and
technical consultants were rapidly engaged.

Implementation of the project faced numerous challenges which were caused by internal and
external factors. While the creation of SC was a positive factor, an inadequate organizational
setup of the SC significantly impeded procurement.          The organizational setup of the SC
disallowed timely actions and slowed down procurement. While procurement was conducted by
the PIU, clearances and approvals of various documents such as shortlists, requests for proposals
(RFPs), bid evaluations etc, required all SC member ministers to be available, which made
scheduling SC meetings extremely difficult.

In addition, every time a new minister was appointed, a new presidential decree was required to
appoint that new minister to the SC (as SC members were appointed by name rather than by
position), which made the convening of SC meetings complicated. Prior to each new presidential
decree, the SC was dysfunctional.

The external impeding factors included changes in the top management of GIOC and GIC and a
volatile political environment. For example, after completion of the MTR the management of
GIOC and GIC was changed. The corporate priorities of the respective companies also changed,
while the decisions at the MTR reflected vision and priorities of the old management. The Bank
was required to amend the decisions agreed at the MTR which delayed finalization of the MTR.

The volatile political environment also negatively affected project implementation. At one point,
no decisions were taken for almost a year due to political changes and changes in the composition
of government. The entire cabinet of ministers was changed, including the Prime Minister, and
the Ministers of Energy, Environment, and Finance, which also affected the composition of the
steering committee.

Implementation was also affected by changes in the way counterpart funding was administered;
pre-revolution, the Ministry of Finance handled counterpart funding, but this responsibility was
later transferred to the Ministry of Energy, whose staff lacked experience and were unfamiliar
with the project, creating an accumulation of unpaid counterpart funding. This was eventually
resolved with intervention by the Bank.

It should be noted that implementation of the environmental and technical advice component was
the most complicated. The selection of the key environmental advisor was hindered by a
substantial procurement complaint which resulted in the Bank recommending that the borrower
rebid the selection.

The project's implementation progress was rated unsatisfactory once in November 2004 and then
moderately unsatisfactory in January 2006.



                                                5

The unsatisfactory rating in November 2004 was caused by significant delays in reaching closure
on issues raised during the MTR, including allocation of savings, utilization of uncommitted
funds, and extension of the closing date for the credit. The MTR discussions were held in
November 2003, and a follow-up took place during missions in April and September 2004.

In January 2006 the project was rated moderately unsatisfactory with regards to development
objectives and implementation progress. The rating for development objective was caused by a
stoppage of environmental and technical advice; in 2005 the GIOC decided not to extend the
contract of the existing technical and environmental consultants. Instead, it decided to hire a new
company for the combined technical and environmental services, which took a long time to
engage. The gap in technical and environmental advisory services during 2006 put at risk timely
responses to pending issues.

The implementation progress was rated as moderately unsatisfactory mostly due to slow
disbursements and accumulated counterpart arrears. The Bank undertook two follow-up missions
in April and June, 2006 to resolve the issues and improve project progress. As a result, the
implementation of the project improved and stalled disbursements restarted. Agreement was also
reached on the selection of the environmental and technical advisors and subsequently the rating
of the project was upgraded to satisfactory.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation, Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design
The Project Appraisal Document did not specify the responsible agency for monitoring and
evaluation of the project, although, the monitoring framework of the Project Appraisal Document
identified various tools for monitoring and evaluation. Notably, the macroeconomic reports from
the International Monetary Fund and World Bank have been identified as sources for the
monitoring and evaluation of the project.

Implementation
Monitoring and evaluation of the project was conducted via regular supervision missions and
analysis of the various reports including: the World Bank and International Monetary Fund
macroeconomic reports, supervision reports, MTR report, and reports from the consultants. Also,
several additional tools such as interactions with the borrower and beneficiaries, the sector policy
dialogue, and other sector operations were used to track project progress. Tracking project
progress and achievement of the objectives was also done via project procurement and financial
management supervision.

Project implementation progress was recorded and documented through regular supervision Aide
Memoires, implementation status and results reports (ISRs) produced after each supervision
mission and documented, i.e. filed in archives. Each mission included regular meetings with
borrowers, project beneficiaries, project-funded consultants, and donors, among others.

Utilization
The vast information provided by the consultant progress reports and project beneficiaries was
used for the project decision-making. The terms of reference and the scope of works for each
environmental advisor was amended based on the inputs from the previous consultant's reports.
The tasks of the advisors were amended to reflect the progress of the pipeline construction and
emerging environmental, technical, and social issues.


                                                 6

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards
The project was designed as technical assistance (TA) to the government and consisted primarily
of advisory services; therefore no safeguard policies were triggered.

Financial Management Compliance
The project's financial management was carried out in accordance with the project design and the
legal agreement (except for audit under the beneficiary entities, which is described below). The
financial management system under the project, including accounting, budgeting, funds flow,
external audit, financial reporting and staffing were overall assessed to be satisfactory and
acceptable to the Bank. There were adequate internal controls in place for the implementation of
the project, which were deemed to provide timely information and reporting on the project. The
project's financial monitoring reports (FMRs) were always received on time and were reviewed
by the financial management specialist (FMS) and were found acceptable to the Bank.

Project audits were carried out on an annual basis. The auditors issued unqualified (clean)
opinions of the project's financial statements, except for FY 2006 when a qualified opinion was
issued due to tax related issues, which were later clarified and resolved (a clean audit opinion
was issued for FY 2007). The audits consistently confirmed the adequacy of the project's
accounting system and the internal controls, and the reliability of the statements of expenditure as
a basis for disbursements and compliance with the legal covenants. The audits were carried out
according to the International Standards of Auditing, and the project's audit reports were usually
submitted to the Bank on time.

Regarding the beneficiary entities under the project - GGIC and GIOC (later GOGC) - the auditor
mainly issued qualified exception and qualified disclaimer opinions on the annual financial
statements of the beneficiary entities (GOGC as well as GGIC and GIOC), mostly due to
significant limitations of scope. The audit reports on the beneficiary entities were usually received
with delay, despite regular follow up by the Bank. An audit waiver was granted for the FY 2006
GOGC audit, since the auditor refused to conduct an audit which was going to result in a
repetitive disclaimer of opinion without any improvements noticed by the auditor in the financial
reporting and internal control arrangements at the entity.

The merger of two companies (GGIC and GOGC) did not improve the weaknesses in the internal
control and accountability observed previously by auditors. The GOGC was requested to develop
a time-bound action plan to address the auditor's recommendations, which is going to be verified
during the FY2008 audit, which will be available in mid 2009.

Procurement Compliance
The PIU was responsible for carrying out procurement under the Energy Transit Institution
Building Project. The project implementation capacity of the PIU with regards to procurement
was satisfactory. The PIU had two procurement officers involved in the project with equal work
load and the officers received adequate procurement trainings.

The last post review of the project was conducted in January 2008. The review did not reveal any
major inconsistencies. Based on the information provided, the contracts were generally managed
in an acceptable way, with exception of the selection of the Environmental consultant, where the
procurement process was not completed on time. The selection process was stopped due to
complaints received on August 21, 2002 soon after the Bank gave its "no objection" to negotiate


                                                  7

a contract. This led to the Bank recommending to restart the selection process and on September
5, 2002, the borrower agreed to re-selection.

In order to achieve the project's main objective, the Bank and the borrower agreed on interim
modified arrangements with regards to the selection of the Environmental consultant. The
modified selection was satisfactory in two aspects; a need for timely engagement of the technical
and environmental advisors, and adherence to Bank procurement guidelines.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
No follow-up operation financed by IDA is envisaged. After project completion the Ministry of
Environment continued to use the Monitoring Unit as the key department to address high
environmental risk projects. The Unit continues to be funded from the budget and is a repository
of the expertise gained during the project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance to the country priorities
The Project development objectives were relevant to the country's priorities as they directly
responded to the Government's need to maximize oil and gas transit benefits and manage transit-
related liabilities. Development of the oil and gas transit was the cornerstone of the Government's
policy. During the 1990's, the Government revitalized the "Silk Road" concept and identified
transit as a development policy priority for the country. The income generated from oil and gas
transit and from the economic activities which accompanied transit development was the main
source of income for the national budget.

Relevance to the CAS
When the ETIB project was prepared the FY98 CAS was in effect (September 22, 1997).
Although the ETIB project was not specifically mentioned in that CAS, it did support the
following three CAS objectives: (i) strengthen public finance; (ii) deepen and diversify sources of
growth; (iii) introduce policy and institutional reforms to protect Georgia's environmental and
natural resources.

The following FY02-04 CAS (January 12, 2001) referred directly to the ETIB project. The CAS
underscored the project's role in assisting the government in "building its capacity to negotiate
and implement oil and gas pipeline transit agreements in view of the potentially significant fiscal
benefits of those pipelines, the need to manage environmental and social impacts effectively, and
the desirability of reducing the cost of energy in Georgia."

Finally, the project objectives are highly relevant to the current CAS (CPS FY06-09 approved on
October 12 2005), which mentions three goals, one of which is "generating growth and job
creation". The project has supported this goal by strengthening Georgia's role as a transit
country; capturing potential monetary and non-monetary benefits from hydrocarbon transit and
financial benefits from the transit of hydrocarbons has been dependent upon the Government's
capacity to properly manage transit arrangements, as oil and gas transit revenues are able to
stabilize and strengthen public finances.




                                                  8

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

At project closing, the project fully met the development objectives, which were to enhance the
capacity of the Georgian State to negotiate and implement oil and gas transit agreements in a
manner that maximizes economic benefits and minimizes social and environmental costs. The
key indicator of the achievement of the objectives was "expected benefits actually realized". This
has been achieved; moreover the Government is monitoring the construction and operation of the
transit pipelines mainly from its own resources.

The overall political, economic, and developmental impact of the transit pipelines is extremely
significant. The three transit pipelines have been successfully implemented and provide the nation
with a range of financial and economic benefits. Expected benefits of the transit pipelines have
been realized in the form of direct and indirect economic benefits as follows:

Maximized Economic Benefits
    Direct Economic Benefits of the Transit Pipelines
    The project has contributed to the successful construction and operation of the transit
    pipelines which brought significant economic benefits to Georgia during construction and
    operation.

    The BTC and SCP pipelines are the largest foreign sponsored projects in the region; the total
    cost of the BTC pipeline is about $4 billion out of which about US$620 million was spent as
    capital investment1 in Georgia. Capital investment of SCP was in excess of US$500 million.
    The share of the BTC and SCP pipeline in the nation's Foreign Direct Investment rose to
    60 %.

    The pipeline construction engaged about 4,800 local workers and operation of the pipeline
    continues to employ about 500 people. The local construction companies have also benefited
    from the pipeline construction. Payment of all pipelines to the local companies was about
    US$300 million2.

    The transit of hydrocarbons via the three pipelines has provided revenue to Georgia's budget.
    During 2000-2007, The BS pipeline generated about US$60 million in budget revenues and
    the profit tax payment by the BTC for 2006-2007 was about US$33 million.

    Indirect Economic Benefits of the Transit Pipelines (component 2)
    The ETIB project has directly contributed to the successful negotiation of a gas purchase
    agreement which enabled Georgia to reap maximum net benefits from SCP, in the form of
    cheap gas and gas supply security.

    The Host Government Agreement (HGA) provided Georgia with access to transit gas
    because; the HGA not only defined Georgia's role as a transit country, but also as a gas buyer.
    However, much remained to be done to implement and realize Georgia's role as a gas buyer
    as the HGA did not assure that Georgia would get suitable terms for gas prices and delivery
    timing. The related contracts had to be worked out along the way with the project developer.




1 During the period of 2004-2006
2During the period of 2000-2007

                                                  9

   The legal advisors helped the beneficiary prepare contracts and documentation that achieved
   the compromise necessary for conditions to maximize Georgia's net benefits.

   It is difficult to estimate the full range of benefits from gas delivered via the SCP pipeline, or
   the political and economic importance of the transit pipelines to Georgia. Although the gas
   price negotiated at the time of transit negotiations seemed high at US$55-US$60/1000 M3,
   subsequent increases in the price of oil, coupled with Gazexport's aggressive gas pricing
   policy have driven gas prices in the region up five-fold since the transit negotiations to as
   high as US$250 /1000 M3. As a result, the SCP pipeline provides Georgia with low cost gas.
   The total benefit from that gas is valued at about US$17 million at the highest throughput of
   the pipeline.

   The SCP pipeline gas also has a security of supply benefit especially given recent military
   confrontations that raised the specter of a major gas supply interruption from Russia, the sole
   supplier, which threatened the stability of Georgia's energy system and triggered an
   immediate need to diversify sources. Gas supply contracts from the SCP pipeline, negotiated
   with ETIB project support, now offer increased security of supply for Georgia.

   Mitigation of Social and Environmental Costs (component 1)
   Social and environmental costs of the transit pipeline were mostly mitigated by the strict
   compliance with the ESIA and introduction of the additional design measures. To set the
   highest standard for the mitigation of the environmental impact, the European Union safety
   and Environmental standards have been enforced.

   As a result, the advisors proposed additional mitigation measures in the form of an improved
   design of the pipeline and mandatory number of management plans. The key implemented
   mitigation measures included a number of construction management plans as follows:
   environmental, land resettlement, cultural heritage, community liaison, community safety,
   construction camp, employment and training, infrastructure and services, pollution prevention,
   procurement and supply, reinstatement, transport, waste and emergency response.

   A whole range of environmental, social and cultural mitigation measures were taken; in
   particular the following documents were adopted and actions were implemented:

    The Late Find Protocol was adopted to protect cultural heritage.

    Amendments were made to waste management plans and monitoring procedures for
        construction waste management. This plan also included obligation of the BTC to
        improve existing land fill in Iagluja, or construct a new land fill.

    The advisors have suggested improved standards for reinstatement along the right of way
        and developed monitoring procedures. Also, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
        was developed and signed on aforestation, which served as a basis for the forest
        restoration.

    A ground and surface water monitoring system and baseline water quality data was
        verified and agreed.

    An Oil Spill Response Plan (OSRP) was amended and agreed to address issues of the
        pipeline oil spill. The plan envisaged a secondary containment for oil and construction of
        drain down tanks in the most sensitive areas.

The above listed mitigation measures have been proposed and implemented by the credit funded
advisors and the Government. After the completion of the credit, the Government, through the

                                                  10

Ministry of Environment, continued post construction and operation monitoring. The Ministry of
Environment is heavily relying on its own human and financial resources to monitor post
completion and operation of the transit pipelines. The High Ecological Risk Unit has been set up
in the Ministry of Environment which is directly in charge of the monitoring and operation of
pipelines and the process of reinstatement. It is noteworthy that the creation of the Unit also
helped to sustain the project achievements, as the Unit became a repository for most of the
capacity and experience gained from the transit pipeline implementation.

Even though the overall project development objective was fully achieved, two out of the five
indicators were archived partially; indicator 3, which is GIOC and GGIC audit reports prepared to
international standards and published, was achieved by 70 %, and indicator 4, which is Actual
examples of MOE enforcement of compliance with liability legislation and technical standards to
prevent/mitigate oil spills, and spill mitigation where MOE is directly responsible, by 50 %.

The target value for indicator 3 was preparation by GOGC audit reports based on international
standards. The audit for the GOGC was based on international standards; however the auditor
issued a disclaimer of the option. The disclaimer of the option by the auditor shows weak
financial management of the GOGC; thus GOGC has not yet achieved international standards of
financial management.

The target value of indicator 4 was finalization of the national marine and land based oil spill
response plans and provision of adequate equipment for spill response management. Even though
the plans have been finalized, they have not been adopted by the cabinet of ministers. Therefore,
achievement of that indicator is rated at 50 %.

3.3 Efficiency
Not applicable for technical assistance projects.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Overall, the project outcome is rated satisfactory. The project was highly relevant at the
beginning and remains relevant now that the pipelines are in operation. Despite protracted
implementation, changes in the top management of beneficiary companies, and changes in the
government composition, the project achieved its main goal. Based on the above the project has
helped the Government to mitigate negative environmental and social impacts from oil transit
while maximizing economic benefits.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project triggered the establishment of the Monitoring Unit in the Ministry of Environment to
liaise with transit pipeline implementation agencies. It has also indirectly contributed to the
creation of the pool of environment experts that was necessitated by transit pipeline development
and supported by the project.

The World Bank requirement for GOGC audits to be conducted according to international
accounting standards also triggered improvements which included an asset valuation and asset
counting. The asset counting and asset revaluation were identified as the key action by the letter
to the management as measures to improve audit quality. The results of the implemented actions
will be reflected in the 2008 audit, which is expected to be completed in mid 2009.


                                                  11

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The GOGC's capacity in contract management was increased as a result of the implementation of
the mapping task. The GOGC also gained considerable experience in developing technical
specifications for the procurement of gas flow meters, gas pressure correctors, and
chromatographs.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
The overall rating of risk to development outcome is moderate: risks identified at the project
design stage fell under two broad categories: (i) high risk that transit pipelines do not materialize
due to private sector disengagement, political intervention, or failure of negotiations; and (b) poor
management of the consultants due to lack of government capacity and experience.

Risk to development outcomes is rated moderate because the military activities during the
August, 2009 posed a direct risk to the development objectives. It may seem that none of the risks
identified during project design have materialized; in particular, the private sector implemented
the transit projects; transit pipelines were constructed and are in operation; BTC, SCP, and BSP
are all in operation; and the NSP is operated in a sustainable manner. Nevertheless, political
instability, military actions, and their potential spillover effects could have destabilized the entire
region and jeopardized the development objectives.

The August 2008 military confrontation was a significant threat to the transit of oil and gas
through Georgia; there was no direct damage inflicted on the pipeline, but pipeline operators
suspended operations. Rail transit of oil was also suspended but later resumed at a reduced rate.
The scale of the confrontation and the associated potential military and political instability
threatened the entire existence of statehood, and the August events posed a direct risk to the
development objectives.

In addition, there is a risk of not sustaining the government's capacity in responding to the oil
spill if the Government fails to adopt and regularly update the National Marine and Land Based
Oil Spill Response Plan. The Plan had not been adopted by the Cabinet of the Ministers upon
completion of the project.

Therefore, the risk rating to the development outcome is rated as "moderate".




                                                   12

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Bank performance in project identification, design, preparation, and appraisal was satisfactory.
The Bank had experience in institution building though the Oil Institution Building Project and
Structural Reform Support operation. The Bank successfully used lessons learned from those
operations, and prepared a well-designed, relevant project in a reasonable time. The completed
project supported the objectives outlined in Georgia's CASs and affirmed by the government.

During appraisal, the Bank team recognized the inherent difficulty which was multiplicity of
stakeholders, complex and mistrustful relations, and the absence of consensus. Previous
operations experience helped the Bank structure the project so as to balance complex institutional
setup on one side with project objectives on the other side.

(b) Quality of Supervision
The quality of supervision was satisfactory. Throughout the project the Bank conducted 15
missions, some of which were combined with the ongoing Methane Leak Reduction Project
preparation; this arrangement increased supervision efficiency. Since there were four task team
leaders over the life of the project, and the handover period between them was relatively long
continuity was maintained. The mid-term review was conducted on time, although the process of
reaching an agreement was protracted due to rapid political changes. The project team regularly
monitored the implementation and recorded the status via ISRs and Aide Memoires.

However, project supervision was extremely challenging due to the inherently uncertain nature of
transit projects, multiple beneficiaries, absence of consensus and distrust among beneficiaries,
and the volatile political environment. Despite these challenges, the task team supervision was
satisfactory, with the supervision including sending continuous communication to the Borrower
via Aide Memoires and MTR reports.

It is noteworthy that the Bank team maintained good working relationships with the beneficiary
companies, and the supervision team had regular meetings with the GIOC, GGIC, and with
GOGC management after the merger. Frequent informal meetings and contacts resolved pending
issues and built trust among beneficiaries, and the Bank sector manager participated in early
supervision missions, all of which mitigated the tensions inherent in this highly politicized
environment. Later, task management responsibilities were decentralized to the country office
staff, which benefited interaction among the Bank team and beneficiaries.

The project closing date was extended three times, the first to allow use of undisbursed funds and
continuation of the environmental advisory service; the second, to complete mapping of the gas
pipeline and procure oil spill response equipment; and the third to deliver oil spill equipment and
procure pipeline gas flow monitoring equipment.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Bank performance at project preparation and supervision was satisfactory; supervision was
organized by adequately skilled teams and the Sector Manager was actively involved. Despite
supervision challenges, complex political and institutional relationships, the overall Bank
performance is rated satisfactory.



                                                13

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Project implementation had two distinct phases and the borrower performance and project
progress during these phases differed substantially. At project initiation, the government was
committed, acted promptly and proactively, enthusiastically accepted the idea of capacity
building and looked forward to receiving assistance with transit negotiations. During this period,
transit negotiations were in a very active phase, HGA and respective agreements were negotiated,
the ESIA for BTC pipeline was in preparation and the government was expected to respond to the
ESIA. The project had a fast start--approved by the Bank on March 13, 2001, signed on May 25,
2001 and effective on November 19, 2001.

During the first phase, the "pre-Rose Revolution" (from 2001 to 2003), the government was
proactive and interested in the project, in parallel with the development of the BTC pipeline.
Clearly a full commitment to the project existed among top levels of government and
beneficiaries, but at the lower levels, the lack of experience, capacity, and sense of ownership
impeded project progress. The difficulty in progress was compounded by distrust among
beneficiaries, the Ministry of Environment's lack of ownership, explicit resistance from the
implementing agency to own the project, and polarized relationships among GIOC, GGIC, and
the Ministry of Environment. Procurement progressed slowly, disbursement of counterpart
funding constantly lagged. The slow progress of the project which was not adequate to rapidly
developing transit pipelines led to downgrading the project implementation rating to
unsatisfactory in 2004.

During the second phase of project implementation--the post-Rose revolution--(2004 to 2008)
the top government officials' interest in the project waned as the need for assistance in transit
agreements declined; nevertheless, the Borrower's engagement intensified; the sense of project
ownership by the Ministry of Environment grew substantially as it increased its capacity and
engaged in the project proactively, which also increased the Ministry's acceptance of assistance,
including a request for Bank assistance for legal and forestry advisors. The GGIC and later, the
GOGC demonstrated mounting interest in the project and extended requests for funding.

The project MTR coincided with the Rose Revolution. Post revolution changes led to delays in
closure on decisions reached during the MTR, which was essential for continued support to the
GOGC. The project MTR began in November 2003 and key agreements were concluded shortly,
but decisions were not finalized until November 2004. These delays were in part due to the Rose
Revolution and the accompanying changes to the government and its priorities.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The performance, capacity, and proactivity of the PIU ranged from unsatisfactory to satisfactory
during the project lifecycle. Initially the PIU resisted active engagement in the project;
nevertheless, project implementation was satisfactory, primarily because of the extraordinary
efforts of the Bank team, the steering committee, and top management of the beneficiaries; and
constant borrower commitment.

Since the PIU initially lacked proactivity, the SC struggled to make operational decisions and
facilitate project implementation, which it was unequipped to do. The PIU, as the implementing
agency, was under constant pressure from all parties. Antagonism and distrust among the
beneficiaries had totally demotivated the PIU to accept project ownership. Instead, the SC tried to


                                                14

fill some of the project ownership vacuum and fill the acute need for progress toward timely
project implementation.

As transit pipeline implementation progressed, the need for assistance declined. As PIU capacity
grew, the sense of project ownership increased and performance improved. Despite numerous
changes in management, the PIU remained fully functional, retained capacity to manage the
project, and its performance improved to satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Although project implementation faced numerous challenges, during the initial stage, which
mostly derived from weak borrower performance during that period, the overall borrower
performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The weak borrower performance was offset by the
continued government commitment to the project and their full support and endorsement for
project objectives in the face of extreme implementation challenges and political turmoil.

6. Lessons Learned
Preparation
Effective capacity building and tangible assistance to the Borrower in a massive-scale
activity such as a transit pipeline requires assistance to be delivered at an early stage,
properly synchronized with each stage of transit pipeline implementation. Decision making
stages of the major transit pipeline took place during early 1999, i.e., the Parliament of Georgia
approved the pipeline route much earlier than the project start date (February 2001). As a result,
the ETIB project was late to support the government during the transit route selection. The
technical assistance in capacity building for hydrocarbon transit projects should be delivered at a
very early stage of the transit project, to allow improved decision making from the start of the
transit project.

Design and implementation
Credit implementation-level decision-making should be removed from the institution
designed for the consensus building among Credit beneficiaries. The ETIB Credit had
multiple beneficiaries with little experience of joint decision-making and some sense of distrust,
which made consensus difficult. Creating a steering committee, comprising highest-level officials
was a novel concept that aimed to improve consensus building and a sense of ownership among
Credit beneficiaries. However, this arrangement proved to be operationally impractical for several
reasons. Therefore, the operational aspect of the Credit should be separated from the SC, or SC
decision-making should be delegated to less senior public officials.

Trust is essential for the negotiation advisors' success and effectiveness. Negotiation advisor
assistance requires strong levels of trust among Bank and beneficiary stakeholders, and less
stringent monitoring of the content of the negotiations. Since the negotiation advisors are
"insiders" from the industry under negotiation and well connected to both sides of the
negotiations this can lead to a perception of corruption. The Bank responds to the perceived
corruption by increased scrutiny, which may erode project effectiveness and damage outcomes.

Project assistance can develop capacity but sustaining it will depend on an effective
institutional setup. A key aim of the project was to build and sustain institutional capacity. The
Monitoring Unit in the Ministry of Environment was an effective institutional setup that
succeeded in consolidating staff and institutional experience during project implementation. In



                                                15

addition, funding equipment and operational costs from the Credit strengthened Unit
effectiveness, and post-project Unit operation appears sustainable.

Financial Management of the Beneficiary and Audit
Funding audit expenses from the Credit combined with an agreed procedure, time-bound
action plan, can help beneficiaries produce on-time, quality audit reports. Binding legal
requirements to produce audits based on internationally accepted accounting practices may not
lead to improved audit reports if resources to finance the audits are unavailable.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
There have been no issues raised by the Borrower or the implementing agency. The respective
written communication from the Borrower is presented in the Annex7.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                 16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)



                                    Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                     Estimate          Estimate        Percentage of
           Components             (USD millions)    (USD millions)      Appraisal

 ENVIRONMENTAL AND
TECHNICAL ADVICE                              8.4            10.23        122%
 LEGAL ADVICE                                  1              0.22         22%
 COMPANY AUDITS                             0.24              0.12         50%

 NON-PIPELINE OIL SPILL
COMPONENT                                   1.07              1.82        170%
 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                       0.5             0.65        130%

 UNALLOCATED                                1.08                -          0%


             Total Baseline Cost            12.29            13.05        106%
Physical Contingencies                         0                 0          0
Price Contingencies                            0                 0          0
              Total Project Costs           12.29            13.05        106%




(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of     Estimate     Estimate   Percentage of
                                  Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                 millions)    millions)
Borrowing Agency                               0.48         0.00         0.00
Borrower                                       2.18         1.61         73.85
International Development
Association (IDA)                              9.63         11.43        118.69




                                         17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Name of the Component: 1 (A) Environmental and Technical Advice for Pipeline
                          Implementation
    Activity                                            Output
Environmental Advisor
    Review of Oil Spill Response plan                   Updated Oil Spill Response Plant Water
                                                        sampling, baseline study
    Review of management and Monitoring Plans           Document: Monitoring Methodology,
    and additional studies                              tool boxes, procedures.
    Advice on Right of Way and land acquisition         Comments on land acquisition issues
    issues
    Capacity building and training                      Trainings on the Monitoring Plan
                                                        MOU for Forest Compensation
                                                        MOU on Ktsia Tabatskuri Management
                                                        plan
    Ad hoc assistance on environmental and social       Site selection for drain dawn tanks
    issues, permitting, technical translation and
    interpretation
    Monitoring & Supervision support, Monitoring        Documents: periodical audit reports,
    & Management Plans & GIS data                       mission audit reports
                                                        Filed missions,
                                                        Document: Updated Late Find Protocol,
                                                        Monitoring of its implementation
    Environmental Strategy products compliance          Updated Anthrax protocol
    with requirements
    Communication and Public information                Proposal to open Borjomi and Rustavi
                                                        info centers
                                                        Updated web site for the MOE
Technical Advisor East-West Corridor
    Package of special engineering measures for the sensitive Tsalka section
    Resolution of technical concerns at the river crossings,
    Agreement on extra BTC studies and design principles to be adopted in respect of landslides,
    Special measures by BTC in the Borjomi Section.
Technical Advisory Services North South Gas Corridor
    Technical inspection of the NS pipeline          Project Completion Reports
                                                     Presentation on finding
GGIC Preparation of Geographical Information System and Provision of Mapping of North South
Trunk Gas Pipeline
    This component was not completed as intended
    Survey centerline and create GIS cadastre maps      Partially completed
    Build an operational GIS with the full set of the   Partially completed
    GIS map
    GIS Training                                        Has not been preformed
Supply of Gas Flow meters and correctors
    Gas Flow meter, correctors chromatographs           Precise flow measurements at key points

                                                18

Forestry Expert
                 Review and assist the Ministry of      Draft Memorandum of Understanding
                 Environment on the finalization of     between BTC Co. and the Ministry of
                 Memorandum of Understanding            Environmental Protection and Natural
                 between BTC Co. and the Ministry       Resources of Georgia for Forest Eco-
                 of Environment for Forest Eco-         Compensation
                 Compensation
                 Develop methodology for forest         Presentation, Independent Advice on
                 eco-compensation                       Forest Eco-compensation Program for the
                                                        Ministry of Environment and Natural
                                                        Resources of Georgia
                 Advice on the forest eco-              Final Report, Independent Advice on
                 compensation                           Forest Eco-compensation Program
                                                        for the Ministry of Environment and
                                                        Natural Resources of Georgia
                                                        Monthly progress report and completion
                                                        report
Legal Advisor, Ministry of Environment
                 Advisory services to the Ministry of Environment on transit related legal matters

Coordinator of Steering Committee
                 Arrange and Coordinate SC              SC decisions, approvals of reallocation,
                 Meetings                               Approvals of TOR, and MTR Results




Name of the Component: 2 (b) Legal Advice for Pipeline Implementation

Name                          Activity                                  Output
GGIC Membership of CERA
Legal Advisors
                              Participation in transit negotiations     Agreement on the gas
                                                                        supply term and
                                                                        conduction

Name of the Component: 3 (c) Company Audit

Activity                      Activity                                  Output
GIOC Audit                                                              Audit of GIOC for 2002
GIC Audit (i)                                                           Audit of GIC for 2002
GIC Audit (ii)                                                          Audit of GIC for 2002

Name of the Component: 4 (d) Non-Pipeline Oil Spill Prevention and Mitigation Component

Name                          Activity                            Output
                                                                  Vehicles for GIOC GGIC and
                                                                  Ministry of Environment
                                                                  Computer Equipment for GIOC
                                                                  GGIC and Mo Environment
Marine and Land Based Consultant

                                              19

                               Review and update of the          Updated National Land-based
                               marine and land based OSRP        Oil Spill Contingency Plan
                               Review and update of the          Updated National Marine Oil
                               marine and marine based OSRP      Spill Contingency Plan
                               Develop risk assessment for the   Risk Assessment
                               OSRP
                                                                 Completion Report, National
                                                                 Land and Marine Oil Spill
                                                                 Prevention and Mitigation Plan
                               Develop technical specification   Equipment lists, technical
                               for the oil spill equipment       description
                               Conduct oil spill response        Oil spill response training
                               training

Name of the Component: 5 (e) Project Implementation

Support to the PIU operations including remuneration of the PIU staff and other operating
expenses.




                                                 20

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable for technical assistance projects.




                                                 21

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members



           Names                       Title            Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                  Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Peter Thomson           Sector Director                ECSSD Task Team Leader
Jonathan Walters        Sector Manager                 MNSSD Task Team Leader
Vakhtang Kvekvetsia     Financial Analyst              ECSSD Financial Analyst

Allan Rotman            Sr. Environmental Specialist   WBISD Environmental
                                                             Specialist

Rita Cestti             Sr. Water Resource Economist   LCSEN Water Resource
                                                             Specialist

Ralf Schwimmbeck        Pipeline Engineer              ECSSD Technical
                                                             Consultant

Leonid Vanian           Procurement Specialist         ECSPS Procurement
                                                             Specialist
Jonathan Pavluk         Sr. Country Lawyer             LEGAF Lawyer

Nicholay Chistyakov     Sr. Disbursement Officer       LOAFC Disbursement
                                                             Officer
                                                             Financial
Roberto Tarallo         Sr. Financial Management
                        Specialist                     LCSFM Management
                                                             Specialist
Richard James           Consultant                     ECSSD Financial Analyst
Jann Masterson          Operations Officer             ECSSD Operations Officer
Josephine Kida          Program Team Assistant         ECSSD Team Assistant
Michael Levitsky        Lead Energy Economist          COCPO Peer Reviewer
Karin Shepardson        Sr. Operations Officer         ECSSD Peer Reviewer
Zoe Kolovou             Sr. Country Lawyer             LEGOP Lawyer
Elly Gudmundsdottir     Counsel                              Counsel

Bernard Baratz          Consultant                     EASTE Environmental
                                                             Consultant
                                                             Financial
Sophie Devnosadze       Operations Analyst             ECCGE Management
                                                             Specialist
Jane Olga Ebinger       Sr. Energy Specialist.         ECSSD Task Team Leader

Darejan Kapanadze       Environmental Specialist       ECSSD Environmental
                                                             Specialist
Militsa Khoshtaria      Team Assistant                 ECCGE Team Assistant
Joseph Melitauri        Sr. Operations Officer         ECSSD Task Team Leader

Norval Stanley Peabody  Consultant                     ECSSD Lead Social
                                                             Scientist

                                        22

William R. Porter        Consultant                         ECSSD Task Team Leader

Gurcharan Singh          Sr. Procurement Specialist         ECSPS   Procurement
                                                                    Specialist
                                                                    Financial
Arman Vatyan             Sr. Financial Management
                         Specialist                         ECSPS Management
                                                                    Specialist

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                     22                          94.73
  FY02                                                                  0.00
  FY03                                                                  0.00
  FY04                                                                  0.00
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
  FY08                                                                  0.00
                        Total:             22                          94.73
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                       4                          4.71
  FY02                                     25                          68.58
  FY03                                     44                         128.23
  FY04                                     32                         115.12
  FY05                                     38                         102.99
  FY06                                     32                          94.08
  FY07                                     25                          35.65
  FY08                                     16                          28.72
  FY09                                                                  0.00
                        Total:            216                         578.08




                                         23

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                    24

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                  25

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower provided Summary of Borrower's ICR, letter from deputy Ministry of Finance Mr.
Dimitri Gvindadze, dated April 2, 2009. The draft ICR has also been reviewed by the Borrower
and the Borrower has not suggested any changes, letter from the deputy Minister of Finance Mr.
Dimitri Gvindadze, dated June 16, 2009.

                          Energy Transit Institutional Building Project
                      Georgian Oil and Gas Corporation, Summary Report

Introduction
Georgian Oil and Gas Corporation (GOGC) a state owned company, was founded on March 21,
2006 as a result of merger of joint-stock company Georgian International Oil Corporation (GIOC),
Georgian Gas International Corporation (GGIC) and National Oil Company Georgian Oil"
(Saqnavtobi). In order to ensure development of appropriate capacities for managing projects in
the energy transit sector, GIOC and GGIC were involved in implementation of special programs
aimed at the company's institutional development. In 2003, the World Bank started funding the
Energy Transit Institution Building project, whereby advisor companies work with the
Government of Georgia (GOG) to assist GIOC, GGIC and the Georgian Ministry of the
Environment (MOE). The program of advisory services under World Bank ETIB project covering
the construction and operation of the SCP and BTC pipelines finished in August 2008.

Technical and Environmental Advisors Project Objectives and Scope of Work
The overall objective of the contracted Technical and Environmental Advisors was to assist the
Government of Georgia in strengthening its capacity to manage the technical, environmental and
social impacts related to the oil and gas transit agreements. The principal agencies involved were
GOGC (GIOC, GGIC) and the Ministry of Environment. The scope of work for this assignment
was the East West Oil and Gas Corridor (BTC and SCP) and has included three categories of
tasks as outlined below.

Task Group I; Specific Objectives and Scope of Work - Technical Issues
The Government of Georgia has a number of obligations under transit agreements with respect to
approval of design of projects and other related permitting matters (Georgia incurs substantial
liabilities if there are delays against very short deadlines in the Oil and Gas HGAs) requiring
provision of respective professional advice.

The main goal of the GOG and GIOC/GGIC in respect of technical issues related to subject
projects, was ensuring integrity and operational safety of subject pipelines with due consideration
of their substantially long service life.

Output of the Task Group I;
 Report on metering systems design and application specifics with recommendations and
    description of the best existing practices
 Recommendation and comments on the all ongoing technical issues described above 
    including review of permanent construction measures installed, intrusion preventions
    system, secondary containments and pipeline drain down facilities.
 Enhanced Geographic Information System database
 Trained staff of GOGC (GIOC/GGIC)  on-job training.



                                                  26

Task Group II: Specific Objectives and Scope of Work - Environmental Issues
The Government of Georgia has a number of "environmental review" obligations under transit
agreements and will incur substantial liabilities if there are delays in response against very short
deadlines in the Oil and Gas HGA. The principal agencies involved in the environmental
review were GIOC, GGIC (GOGC) and the Ministry of Environment.

Output of the Task Group II;
 Recommendation and comments on the all environmental issues described above 
     including review of ESIA and ESMP, recommendations on OSRP, landslide control
     measures, river-crossing sections and etc.
 Trained staff of GOGC (GIOC/GGIC)  focus on-job training.

Task Group III: Formal Training
Capacity building of involved agencies was one of the major components of this project.
Although it was expected that on-job training of respective specialists will be the major form of
training, and this has been captured in Tasks I and II, the Advisor was required to develop and
implement a program of not only on-the-job training but also suggest and conduct other formal
forms of training for selected staff from the Government of Georgia and its implementing
agencies.

The training program should been addressed the technical and environmental management
aspects of operating oil and gas pipelines projects and focus on issues that are relevant to the role
and responsibilities that the Ministry of Environment and GOGC (GIOC/GGIC) have in relation
to the BTC/ SCP pipelines.

Output of the Task Group III;
 More than 20 specialists from GOGC (GIOC/GGIC) were trained in environmental and
     technical skills.
 At the end of the Project GOGC (GIOC/GGIC) possess significant capacity to develop
     procedures for monitoring all the technical, environmental and social activities of the
     sponsors/investors and their contractors connected with operating pipeline projects.

Together with Environmental and Technical advice, projects with legal advice and audits
involving some of the most credible and famous international companies have very positively
influenced the overall implementation of the ETIB program within GOGC (GGIC/GIOC). Their
initial tasks to support proper implementation of all agreements concerning BTC and SCP on
construction, as well on operational phase, adjustments in accordance of Georgian legislation, and
provision of audits in compliance with international standards, were fulfilled completely.
Apart from the described above projects, which have plaid important role in company's
development and strengthening energy sector of Georgia by providing valuable contribution and
support to the main state owned energy agency (GOGC); Several other small scale purchase or
service provision projects were fulfilled successfully under the ETIB Project as well, such as
purchases of Computers, Automobiles, Computer equipment, Inviting individual experts,
Cambridge Energy consultancy subscription, etc. These projects also have helped greatly in
proper work and capacity development of the beneficiary companies: GGIC/GIOC/GOGC.

Summary (Outcomes/Benefits)
Significant experience has been accumulated while working with technical and environmental
experts and capacity developed to cope with a vast number of issues related to environmental and
technical issues at construction stage of pipelines. The project has greatly helped in developing


                                                 27

capacity that focuses efficient strategy on maintaining environmental and technical security of the
pipelines.

Five companies have provided Environmental and Technical Advisor Services to the GIOC,
GGIC, and GOGC. Ratings of the outcomes per each company/contract are as follows:

1. Environmental Issues  Evaluation status: Highly Satisfactory
2. Environmental and Technical Issues  Evaluation status: Highly
   Satisfactory
3. Technical Issues (east-west)  Evaluation status: Highly Satisfactory
4. Technical Issues (north south)  Evaluation status: Satisfactory
5. GIS Tech. Issues - Evaluation status: Unsatisfactory  contract not fulfilled

Legal Advisors, Audit and Other components:
1. Legal Issues - Evaluation status: Satisfactory
2. Auditing (GGIC) - Evaluation status: Satisfactory
3. Auditing (GOGC) - Evaluation status: Satisfactory
4. Equipment purchases - Evaluation status: Satisfactory
5. Equipment purchases - Evaluation status: Satisfactory
6. Equipment purchases - Evaluation status: Satisfactory
7. Other small scale purchase and service provision projects

Benefits of the projects under ETIB program
The main benefits for GOGC (GIOC/GGIC) as the implementing agency in Oil & Gas sector of
Georgia, could be split into four categories:
1. Technical Advise Benefits for the pipeline projects implementation:
      Main points:
       Timely and properly fulfillment of all GOGC (GIOC/GGIC) technical review
        (Environmental, legal) obligations under the HGA and IGA of East-West transit oil and
        gas pipelines.
       Adjustment to the international standards and best practices in technical issues, including:
        design, construction, safety, monitoring, maintenance and repair works.
2. Environmental benefits for the pipeline projects implementation:
      Some examples:
       Fulfillment of conditions of the environmental permit
       Fulfillment of conditions related to the protection of Borjomi section.
       Approval of an Oil Spill Response Plan fulfilling the country strict requirements
       Implementation of relevant measures for oil spill detection and mitigation of
        consequences
       Strong action for the protection of the water resources of the country
       Development of a Late find protocol in line with the highest protection standards of the
        EU
3. Benefits from Legal Advice and Auditing:
      Some examples:
       Complete Review of transit oil and gas pipelines agreements and Georgian legislation on
        concerning matters.
       Legal advises from specialized pipeline lawyers and their direct involvement in the
        settlement of legal issues during project implementation has benefited in smooth
        implementation of company's legal obligations
       As a result of cooperation, company's own capacity improvement of expertise in legal
        issues

                                                 28

        Enhanced credibility and operation's transparency as a result of audits with
         internationally accepted standards
4. Capacity building, mainly devoted to the MOE and GGIC/GIOC, GOGC
      Some examples:
    a) Support to the establishment of the Monitoring Group of MOE:
    b) On the job and formal trainings of both MOE, GIOC and EA experts, in particular in the
         fields of Monitoring and Oil Spill; now the competences and expertise built up constitute
         a capital asset of the country for future needs
    c) Creation of two Environmental Coordination Centers in Borjomi and Rustavi, which
         gained the respect of the local population and authorities
    d) Development of a protocol on Anthrax respecting the international standards and the
         Georgian legislation; build up of these advanced competences in the State Regional
         Institutions.
    e) Well trained employees in environmental and technical fields
    f) Purchases of necessary technical equipments and service subscriptions, helping in
         maintaining sustainable capacity development of GGIC/GIOC, GOGC (MOE)

Projects by contracted company: (Technical & Environmental Advisors)

1. Environmental Advisor (East-West)  GIOC (GOGC)
Evaluation Status: Highly Satisfactory  All contracted obligations were fulfilled with surpass.

Environmental Advisor (EA) Contract
The EA project started in November 2003. Prior to the EA/2 project, 3 missions were carried out
in order to review the ESIA and prepare the conditions of approval.

Summary of activities
The initial activity was aimed at creating the internal structure for monitoring the project
activities. This task was addressed taking into consideration two basic requests of the project
TOR, i.e. monitoring the project implementation by the BTC and its contractor, and establishing
an `in house capacity' to achieve the said goal (Tasks B2, B4).

Georgian experts were appointed and twinned with the Western experts, and a series of work
groups were established to cover the various issues; staff from the two government agencies in
charge of the project (the Ministry of Environment  MOE, and the Georgian International Oil
Corporation  GIOC) was also integrated in the work groups. A specific document `Monitoring
Methodology' was prepared and made available to all the work group members and internal
training courses were realized to make sure that all the involved experts understood the
methodology and the purpose of the monitoring activities; tool boxes and procedures were
developed by the work groups, under guidance of the western experts, for each specific field.
(Tasks A2, B2)

This capacity building process developed quite positively and a consistent number of experts and
MOE and GIOC/GOGC staff positively perform the field monitoring with a progressive decrease
of western experts support. The EA has therefore put in place a strong operation of monitoring
the project field implementation (Task B4).

An additional audit program has been also carried out, relevant to the internal monitoring system
put in place by the BTC Co; their management system has therefore been subject to a periodical
auditing, and the relevant audit reports have been prepared and provided to all parties (Task B4).

The Georgian experts and supporting staff have realized up to July 2005 more than 1.000 man
days of field and audit missions; to this figure the man days of the staff from the MOE and GIOC

                                                   29

should be added. Every single field mission has been followed by a `Mission/Audit Report' - and
a specific procedure was prepared on how to write the report - translated also in Georgian
language - which was then forwarded to MOE, GIOC, and BTC Co; in case of a minor or major
non compliance a yellow card or red card has been issued respectively.

Main activities
The main tasks covered by the Environmental Advisor are summarized below:

ESIA Approval. This task required a very strong input of resources from the Environmental
Advisor (both western and Georgian experts). The Environmental Advisor has further devoted
consistent resources in monitoring and evaluating the compliance of BTC with the Conditions,
until BTC Co in the month of October 2004 has achieved to fulfill its obligations. EA has also
provided a continuous assistance to the Government of Georgia during the lengthy negotiations
(Task B3, B5).

Construction Management Plan. The following construction management plans have been
reviewed for Government acceptance: Ecological, Land Resettlement, Cultural heritage,
Community liaison, Community safety, , Construction Camps, Employment and training,
Infrastructure and services, Landscape, Pollution prevention, Procurement and supply,
Reinstatement, Transport,,     Waste, Emergency response. The Hydrotest Management Plan,
prepared in a second time, has also been reviewed (Task A2).

Archaeology. A Late Find Protocol was prepared by BTC Co and rejected by the EA on the
ground that it contained unacceptable provisions relevant to the sovereign responsibility and
authority of the GOG on the sector of the country cultural heritage. A western archaeologist
prepared a new protocol where the sole responsibility of the GOG was clearly stated; this
protocol follows the highest western standards in terms of cultural heritage protection and takes
also into account the Georgian legislation. The protocol has been accepted by BTC Co (Task B5)
and the EA has monitored its implementation (Task B4)

Anthrax. This very sensitive issue has been approached with great sense of responsibility for
obvious reasons. Two Georgian experts have been appointed and the EA project manager follows
the issue. Also in this case the protocol prepared by the BTC Co was refused on the ground of its
non compliance with the Georgian legislation and the international standards. A new protocol was
prepared by the EA, and discussed at length with BTC Co., which accepted it (Task B5). In
addition and following a specific request, the EA provided a specific training to the BTC Co staff
in charge of the Anthrax issue, on how to implement the protocol (Task B2). The EA has realized
a continuous coverage of the right of way from the anthrax point of view, a special report has
been provided to all parties highlighting all the areas were the potential risk in high, assistance
was provided in clearing a few potential cases (Task B4).

Waste Management. The non compliance by BTC in respect of the waste management, has
motivated the EA to request the BTC to provide to the GOG a new management strategy, which
has been then submitted. A strong monitoring joint program with BTC and GIOC has been
realized; specific support has been provided by the EA on the issues of the large amount of inert
waste produced in PSG2, for the improvement of Iagluja land fill, for the mixed waste
incineration and commitments taken by BTC Co to spend 5 MM$ on construction of a EU
compliant municipal land fill for non hazardous waste. (Tasks A2, B3, B4 and B5).

Social issues. This issue has been partially covered by GIOC in particular for the problems
related to the land compensation, but there is not an Institution, specialized in social issues,
following this project; the EA has therefore provided a large amount of resources to this field: one
western and two Georgian experts. Extensive missions in the village along and in the proximity of



                                                 30

the RIGHT OF WAY            have been realized since the project start up and the results have been
provided to all parties; the EA has received a valid cooperation by BTC Co. (Task B1, B4)

Reinstatement. The BTC proposed erosion classes all along the right of way have been reviewed
on site by EA experts. It has been agreed to base the reinstatement on the EA values. (TaskA2,
B5). The temporary reinstatement has been followed up, as it occurred during one year  after
BTC pipeline construction, before SCP pipeline construction, including the winterization program
(Task B 4). Apart of the right of way, the reinstatement activities were monitored by the joint
team MOE/GIOC/EA, e.g. the violation of the reinstatement and waste management plans
(disposal of large amount of rocks and soil) have been revealed and BTC Co has been requested
to put its activities in compliance with the commitments (Task B4).

Bio-diversity. The reviewed documents include: the biodiversity monitoring program,
biorestoration specification plan, biorestoration method statement, Rare Floral Species Program,
The pre-construction surveys, as well as the additional right of way, not covered by the pre
construction surveys, bio-diversity monitoring annual report (flora and fauna components).

The EA submitted a list of indicator tree and shrub species for right of way monitoring and
reinstatement for the entire corridor. Two nurseries have been monitored on regular basis (Task
A2, B4).

Memoranda of Understanding
A Memorandum of Understanding for Forestry Eco Compensation has been prepared. It defines
the ratio of replanting, the area to be reforested as unit of measure, the quality improvement of
degraded habitat versus the planting of a new forest. EA provided full support to the MOE on
these matters (Task A2).

A Memorandum of Understanding on Ktsia Tabatskuri Management Plan has been worked out
together with MOE and GIOC (Task A2).

SCP Construction. The construction activities of the SCP have initiated and are monitored as it
has been done for the BTC pipeline (Task B4). A specific assistance has been required by the
GOG for the connection point selection, in order to supply Georgia with gas (Task A2, B3).

Water supply. A baseline study provided by BTC Co was refused by the EA on the ground of
totally wrong figures (consequences of improper maintenance of lab equipment), since all
samples  a total of 18  shown similar qualitative and quantitative contamination by
hydrocarbon, difficult to justify, for example, in remote places; after long negotiation a second
sampling campaign was agreed and jointly realized; the new analyses shown that all the samples
are free of contamination, therefore BTC Co agreed to formalize these results in a new baseline
(Task A1). During this task duplicate samples have been taken by the EA and transported to IFP
for cross check analyses. These 23 samples underwent a redundant analysis in IFP in order to
insure the reliability of the results. The manpower and consumable needed for these
investigations were not included by the project TOR and not covered by the project expenditures.

Groundwater and Surface Water Monitoring System. EA was also very strongly involved in
the definition process of another line of defense dedicated in particular to the early detection of
small leaks that may occur in the highly sensitive areas of Borjomi, Tsalka, Ktsia Tabatskuri and
the two Georgian Pumping Stations. This line of defense will consist in monitoring the
groundwater and surface water quality with regard to the presence of hydrocarbons. The
localization process of the groundwater and surface water monitoring points and the construction
of the wells have been agreed after getting the best possible knowledge of the hydrogeological
situation of the sites; this task involved also the input of very skilled local experts. The definition
of sample location and sampling frequency were both based on the modeling of the pollution fate
which also underwent a critical analysis from the EA before agreement. The input of the EA on

                                                  31

this field covered also the sampling procedure and analyses protocol that will be implemented
during the pipeline operation. Even though strong efforts have been made with the establishment
of this dense net of surveillance, it has been recognized for the Tsalka region that an oil spill
could remain undetected; as a consequence an additional line of defense has been agreed within
the conditions for approval of the OSRP (Task A1, B3, B4).

Secondary Containment. As part of the ESIA Conditions, in the frame of the multiple layers of
defense and of the highest standards to reduce the risks as near as possible to, secondary
containment measures have been analyzed in great details (Task B3, B5). This process has
continued in the frame of the Oil Spill Response Plan and an agreement has been finally found on
the number and location of such installations (Task A1).

Drain Down Tank. Agreed in the frame of the OSRP approval, the EA has been deeply involved
in the selection process of the area. (Task A1, B3, B5).

Visual Impact. The Environmental Advisor has been deeply involved in the evaluation and
possible mitigation of the visual impact of the facilities (secondary containment, Drain down tank,
security base) to be constructed in the Borjomi region in the frame of the OSRP approval. (Task
A1, B3, B5).

OSRP Approval. The approval process of the Oil Spill Response Plan has requested a significant
amount of resources by the Environmental Advisor to support the MOE and the GIOC, in
consideration of the fact that this plan was a strong tool in the Government hands to ensure the
achievement of the highest international standards (Task B5). The EA has also provided an
important assistance to the Government of Georgia and GIOC during the negotiations which lead
to a conditional approval of the document by the GOG. (Task A1); it could be here mentioned the
creation of several sectorial work groups with EA/GIOC/MOE on one side and BTC on the other
side, which greatly facilitated the process of reaching common positions in all technical issues,
including the definition of environmental sensitivity along the RIGHT OF WAY               and to
downstream receptors. The EA is fully involved in monitoring the actual implementation of the
conditions (Task B4).

Communication. Assistance was provided to MOE in this field; ad hoc training on public
relation has been delivered.

Borjomi and Rustavi Info Centers. The EA proposed to the MOE and GIOC to open an Info
Centre in Borjomi, since it believed necessary a presence of the Government agencies in this
environmentally very sensitive area. The results have been more than positive; the population has
recognized the centre as a reliable place where to get information and support. MOE has then
proposed to further enhance the centre activities to foster the environmental education; to this
purpose contacts have been taken with the local schools; their immediate positive answer has
provided fuel to this initiative and an activity program has been developed for the year 2005. In
addition the MOE has opened a second centre in Rustavi to cover the eastern part of the right of
way and its activity is following the successful path of the Borjomi centre. (Tasks B2, B6)

Assistance to MOE. The EA has supported the MOE in establishing a Monitoring Group for the
project. The EA has also prepared a technical-financial proposal aimed at ensuring the operability
of the Group; this proposal has then been forwarded by the MOE to the WB and approved. (Task
B2). A new web site for the MOE has been realized by the EA.

Permits. The monitoring groups (including MOE/GIOC/EA experts) supported the MOE for
checking the works carried out, to identify if there were some without valid permits. The main
issues were Additional ROW, borrow pits, access roads; the EA linked with CAS to cover the
same issue for the Archaeological sector (Task B3)


                                                 32

Training. Several training course have been realized for Georgian experts, GIOC staff and MOE
Monitoring group, regional department, public relation department. (Task B2)

Translation and Interpretation. Since the project start up an intense activity has been realized
to translate documents from English to Georgian and vice versa; they are reported in the Annexed
list; in addition EA provided the necessary interpretation support.

Reporting. Since the project start up the EA has prepared the Monthly progress report and the
Monthly Schedule report; the EA has also prepared a specific monitoring/audit report following
every field mission; finally the EA has prepared a series of thematic reports on specific issues.

All services delivered to the GIOC/GOGC timely and with surpass, Project is completed
successfully.

2. Technical Advisors
Evaluation Status: Highly Satisfactory  All contracted obligations were fulfilled with surpass.

Environmental Advisor (EA) Contract
Advisors have provided technical and environmental support to the project. The project has been
sub-divided into 23 tasks. The contract also provided for approximately 50 staff/months of input
from local expert consultants.

Fulfillment of Investor commitments

Terms of reference and deliverables:
The terms of reference for this task were: "Providing support to GOG on remaining outstanding
items by reviewing, updating and assisting in implementation of environmental management and
monitoring system for BTC and SCP operations phase; Monitoring fulfillment of investor
commitments stemming from HGA, IGA, ESIA, OSRP and other agreements."

The deliverables were identified as: "Prepared document with all commitments listed and
fulfillment status indicated; relevant standards and `best practice' noted in case of non-
compliance along with ways of solving the issue"
The task was broken down into the following sub-tasks. The full documentation associated with
each task is provided in the Appendix:

 Review of the Intergovernmental Agreements (IGA) and Host Government Agreements
     (HGA), extracting and interpreting the key issues affecting the operations phase. This carried
     out to clearly establish the extent of BPs responsibilities in the operations phase.
 Review of the operational issues identified within the Environmental & Social Impact
     Assessment (ESIA) and responses to comments raised during consultation.
 Review of the commitments made in the ESIA and updating the status of the commitments
     register.
 Agreement with BTC on the environmental monitoring requirements
 Government of Georgia (GOG) expectations of the safety monitoring requirements

Georgia Environmental Support

All services delivered to the GIOC/GOGC timely and with surpass, Project is completed
successfully.




                                                  33

The overall objective of the Technical and Environmental Advisor was to assist GIOC/GOGC in
strengthening its capacity to manage the technical, environmental and social impacts related to
oil and gas transit agreements. This includes; 1. Reviewing systems, plans and agreements, 2
Undertaking field surveys and document reviews, and 3. Providing training.


3. Technical Advisor (East-West) GIOC/GOGC

Evaluation Status: Highly Satisfactory  All contracted obligations were fulfilled with surpass.
Settlement of account / budget: Paid up

Technical Adviser (TA) contract
Selected company commenced work as the Technical Advisor to the Government of Georgia in
November 2002. (State owned company GIOC/GOGC)The Contract for Consultant's Services
was split into two phases, "Support Prior to Pipelaying" (i.e. design and pre-construction stage
review and advice) and "Support During Pipelaying" (i.e. construction monitoring). The work
has been undertaken in accordance with the Contract, in which staff inputs are agreed on a
monthly basis in advance, to correspond with the specific requirements arising out of BTC/SCP
activities. Consultant undertook the necessary work within budget for the first phase, i.e.
remained within the target spend at the commencement of construction.                 Construction
commenced in July 2003 and the second phase of the TA Contract, i.e. "Support During
Pipelaying", then started.

Consultants have provided an important role, their technical advice has facilitated the conclusion
of the following documents:

 Comments on the BTC Design, and design acceptance based on a set of Conditions of
    Approval.
 Comments on the SCP Design, and design acceptance based on set of Conditions of Approval.
 Technical comments on the BTC EIA, and agreement on continuing activities under the ESIA
    Approval Conditions.
 Technical comments on the SCP EIA and preparation of Conditions of Approval.
 Smooth running of Permitting Process
 Review and monitoring of land evaluation and acquisition process
 GIS system requirements and operating approach.

There has been substantial achievement in satisfying the BTC Design Conditions of Approval,
and arising out of this was the agreement by Government and BTC/SCP to important issues
including design changes and additional studies and investigations. These actions have helped
reduce risks on BTC and importantly to allay concerns over construction and operation issues in
technically critical and sensitive areas. Progress has been made towards reaching agreement on
the conditions associated with SCP design conditions, but this has not been the focus of work to
date. Consultant's team of international and local experts have attended the regular Coordination
Meetings (between Government and BTC/SCP), and undertaken discussions, reviews and field
trips with BTC/SCP in support of the Government. Progress has been made on agreement of SCP
Design Conditions. Contractor has also supported GIOC in presentations covering NGO concerns,
and presentations to the Government Commission/BTC Board. Particular examples of specific
technical outcomes of the TA support are:




                                                34

 Package of special engineering measures for the sensitive Tsalka section which are currently
     being implemented by BTC
 Resolution of technical concerns at the numerous river crossings,
 Agreement on extra BTC studies and design principles to be adopted in respect of landslides,
 Agreement of the principles for inclusion of special measures by BTC in the Borjomi Section.

All services delivered to the GIOC/GOGC timely and with surpass, project is completed
successfully.

4. Technical Advisory services north-south gas corridor  GGIC

Evaluation Status: Satisfactory  All contracted obligations were fulfilled. Settlement of account /
budget: Paid up. All services delivered to the GGIC/GOGC timely, Project is completed
successfully.    3



5. Preparation of Geographical Information System and Provision of Mapping of North
South Trunk Gas Pipeline Network of Georgia for Georgian Gas International Corporation

Evaluation Status: Not Satisfactory  Contracted obligations were not fulfilled, settlement of
account / budget: Not fully paid up

Initial tasks for the contracted company were: Preparation of Geographical Information System
and Provision of Mapping of North South Trunk Gas Pipeline Network of Georgia for Georgian
Gas International Corporation (GGIC). Project comprised two phases, first phase dealing with
the North South pipelines and the second phase dealing with the East West pipelines.

Objectives and General Scope of Work
In particular, the tasks of the Consultant for the first phase have included:
(i) carry out a centerline survey using GPS based field measurements of the right of way of the
Georgian N-S Gas Transmission pipelines. Collect data such as land ownership, land use, other
utilities and infrastructure as well as possible encroachments on a corridor 50 m on both sides of
the centerline with the objective to produce a GIS based cadastre map on a 100 m wide corridor
on the centerline.(ii) supply to GGIC maps of the Georgia Trunk Gas Pipeline System indicating
all of the above mentioned facilities and activities within 100 meters of the centerline;
(iii) work with GGIC staff to build up their GIS data base that will be used to establish and
maintain all aspects of Right of Way information and activities in the gas pipeline corridor.
Incorporate field data and cadastre data appropriately into GGIC's GIS system
(iv) provide field based training to identified GGIC staff on the collection of data; and
(v) provide to GGIC all necessary equipment to support the buildup, function, maintenance and
operation of their Geographical Information System.

Apart from other specific tasks, contractor was also required to build a Geographical Information
System (GIS) layer structure (in ERSI ArcView 9.0 format) that will be used to establish and
maintain all aspects of Right of Way information and activities in the gas pipeline corridor and
that allows sets of data to be separately displayed. Data collected in the field, land cadastre and



3
  Due to the long period since project completion (implemented in 2003) and GGIC's merger into the GOGC, all information is
archived and Project's detailed information is not available for the moment. If required, detailed information on the Technical advice
(north-south)-GGIC project will be provided upon request within accordingly estimated period of time.



                                                                  35

other data shall be incorporated into the GIS system using the industry equivalent to the APDM.
(ARCGIS Pipeline Data Model).

Deliverables also was required to include fully operational GIS and corresponding equipment
procured for the assignment (together with operation manuals), and maps of the North South
Georgian Trunk Gas Pipeline corridor (hardcopies as well) delivered to the Management of GGIC.

The project was not completed as intended. There are number of issues which are subject of
disagreement between GOGC and the contractor. For more detailed information please refer to
GOGC (deliverables under the question).

Services are not fully delivered to the GGIC/GOGC, project is not fully completed. Also, there is
the unsettled issue on the sum exceeding USD 4,000.0. Payment of such amount was released by
GOGC, but the corresponding services were not delivered.

Legal Advisers, Audits, and Other projects  GIOC/GGIC - GOGC
Evaluation: Satisfactory  All contracted legal adviser and Audit projects were fulfilled
completely.

 Legal Adviser  GIOC. Evaluation: Satisfactory  All contracted obligations were fulfilled,
    settlement of account / budget: paid up
 Auditing  GIOC. Evaluation: Satisfactory  All contracted obligations were fulfilled,
    Settlement of account / budget: paid up
 Auditing  GGIC. Evaluation: Satisfactory  All contracted obligations were fulfilled,
    settlement of account / budget: paid up
 Purchases of gas meter equipment  GGIC/GOGC, settlement of account / budget: paid up.
    All equipment delivered to the GGIC/GOGC timely, Project is completed successfully.
 Purchases of chromatographs - GOGC, settlement of account/budget: paid up. All equipment
    delivered to the GOGC timely, project is completed successfully

Ministry of Environment, Summary Report.

Under the Ministry of Environment number of activities has been carried out as follows:
1. Forestry expert was hired which prepared document "Independent advice on forestry Eco-
    compensation Program for the Ministry of Environment and natural resources of Georgia"
    final report and "Detailed inventory material of the state forest fund" based on the inventory
    carried out by "Saktkepoekti" (Georgian forestry project). These documents were approved
    by the MOE and it will serve as the bases for the eco compensation Memorandum to be
    signed between BP and the MOE.
2. Non-pipeline oil spill equipment was purchased for the MOE and then transferred to the
    relevant organizations such as maritime transport administration of the Ministry of Economic
    Development and emergency department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
3. Local Legal consultant was hired, who's main obligations were:
    a) Interpreting the Host Government Agreement signed between and among the
        Government of Georgia and the MEP Participants;
    b) Analyzing and interpreting the HGA with Georgian environmental law;
    c) Analyzing and interpreting European Union laws and Georgian laws.
    d) Preparing of the reports regarding fulfillment and problem solutions of the HGA project
        based upon and pertinent to aforementioned fields;



                                               36

   e) Advising and drafting law acts, as needed, for MOE in preparation drafts to enact,
      promulgate, adopt, decree, amend, re-enact or otherwise issue or effect laws if such laws
      will suggest to implementation of the HGA Project or other regarding Projects.
  f) Preparation of report in Georgian and English which will include all relevant works made
      by consultant.

4. Marine and Land based oil spill prevention and mitigation consultant was hired and prepared
   "Land Based Oil Spill Contingency Plan" and "Marine Based Oil Spill Contingency Plan".
   Consultant also conducted following works:
   a) Provide technical input to support the further development and finalization of the draft
      National Marine Oil Spill Contingency Plan (NMOSCP) through its revision and
      modification. If necessary during the approval process, assist in development of any
      changes and amendments.
  b) Conduct a risk assessment and impact study for the transport of oil by ship and rail.
  c) Provide training for the Ministries and the organization responsible for the monitoring
      and execution of the national contingency plan.
  d) Identify and prioritize the response equipment that is necessary to support a cost efficient
      and effective response to marine oil spills.
  e) Documents prepared by the consultants are also approved by the MOE but they have not
      been approved by the Government as recent changes in the Government had to be
      reflected in the document.

5. Eco Monitoring service was established under this project which still successfully operates.
   This service gave opportunity to monitor and conduct works in the high risk areas such as:
   Baku-Tbilisi Ceyhan, Trans Caucasus gas pipeline, west export pipeline.




                                              37

Letter from the Borrower suggesting no changes to the Implementation Completion Report




                                          38

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                    39

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Reallocation of Funds Between Project Components
   Development Credit Agreement
   PAD for the Energy Transit Institution Building Project
   Aide Memoires , Back to Office Reports
   Project Implementation Status Reports
   Project Progress Reports
   Energy Transit Institution Building Project, Closeout/Summary Report
   BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2005
   BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2006
   BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2007
   BP Regional Review




                                       40

Annex 10. Timelines of World Bank Projects and Oil and Gas Pipeline Implementation Progress




                                                   Bank Assistance and Transit Pipeline Timeline

Bank Assistance

                                                                                       Institution Building

                                                                                       Structural Adjustment Credit

                                                                                       Oil Institution Building TA

                                   Structural Reform Support

                            Energy Transit Institution Building

Transit Pipelines

   BSP

                                                          BTC

                                                          SCP

    1992-93     1994    1995     1996       1997        1998       1999      2000    2001        2002    2003-04   2005    2006    2007    2008    2009



                                   Legend

                                   Decision               Preparation/Construction       Implementation/Operation




                                                                                  41

