Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5600 
Operation Name 
Tunisia Employment DPL 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Other social services (60%); P
ublic administration- Information 
and communications (30%); Gene
ral education sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P117161 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
Ministry of Development a
nd International Cooperation 
Place Ali Zouaoui 
Tunisia 
1069 
Fax: 216-71-351666 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Development  
 
Ministere du Developpement et de
 la Cooperation Internationale 
98, Av. Mohamed V 
Tunis 
Belvedere 
Tunisia 
1002 
Tel: (216-71) 892-653 Fax: (216-71) 799-069 
k.benrejeb@mdci.gov.tn 
 
Ministere de l'Emploi et de l'In
sertion Professionnelle des Jeunes 
10 Boulevard Ouled Haffouz 
Tunis 
Belvedere 
Tunisia 
1002 
Tel: (216-71) 792-432 Fax: (216-71) 794-615 
Date PID Prepared 
April 8, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 6, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
May 27, 2010 
 
1.
 
Country and Sector Background 
 
In spite of Tunisia’s solid macroeconomic perfor
mance, a relatively high
 proportion of the labor 
force is unemployed (14.7%). This average mask
s striking differences by age, education, and 
gender, with younger groups and women having hi
gher unemployment rates than older groups 
and men. The unemployment rate of higher edu
cation graduates has increased dramatically 
between 1994 and 2009 from 5% to 23%. Furthe
rmore, gender differences in labor force 
participation are stark, with onl
y 28% of women compared to 74%
 of men participating in the 
labor force in 2008. In the near future, unemplo
yment numbers, especially
 for young graduates, 
are likely to increase due to a growing labor supply, insufficient demand, and a poorly 
functioning labor intermediation. 
Page  2
In response to this challenge, the Government 
of Tunisia (GT) has declared employment its 
number one priority in its XIth National De
velopment Plan (NDP) 2007-2011. This approach 
includes demand side interventions, such as
 private sector development, increased 
competitiveness, and innovation; supply side interventions, such as education and vocational 
training systems, and labor market intermediation to match demand and supply.  
In the short term, the key challenge for Tunisia is
 to mitigate the adverse impact of the global 
economic crisis, in particular depressed ex
ternal demand compounding structurally high 
unemployment. In the medi
um to long term, the main challenge 
will be to generate quality jobs 
by, on the one hand, advancing the structural tr
ansformation of the economy, and on the other 
hand, ensuring an adequate institutional settin
g for efficient matching of labor demand and 
supply. The GT recognized that 
addressing the employment ch
allenge through 
modern labor 
market institutions is critical for a successf
ul future. The proposed Employment DPL supports 
the efforts of the GT in facing this latter challenge.   
 
2.
 
Operation Objectives 
 
Within the overall program objective of improving 
the effectiveness and efficiency of job entry 
in the Tunisian labor market, this DPL will 
improve active labor market programs, labor 
intermediation and the information base for employm
ent policies. It supports three Objectives: 1) 
Facilitate employment through Active Labor Ma
rket Policies, 2) Enhance Domestic and 
International Mobility of the Labor Force, and 3) Strengthen the Monitoring, Evaluation and 
Dissemination of Employment Data and Ma
instream Evidence-Based Policy-Making 
The DPL supports chiefly pillar (i) of the Country
 Partnership Strategy --Employment generation 
and competitiveness and, to a lesser extent, pi
llar (iii) Quality of service delivery.   
 
3.
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The GT has requested the World Bank to support an integrated approach (demand and supply 
side interventions as well as 
labor intermediation) through th
e Country Partnership Strategy 
(2010-2013), which would include the following ope
rations: (1) on the labor demand side the 
Integration and Competitiveness DPL, the Thir
d Export Development Project, and the Energy 
Efficiency Project, (2) on th
e labor supply side the Higher 
Education Quality and Skills 
Development Projects, and (3) on the matc
hing of labor demand and supply the proposed 
Employment DPL series.   
The GT has invited the World Bank and the EU to
 join forces to support the above objectives on 
the basis of a shared vision over a 
five year perspective. Financia
l support would be granted first 
from the World Bank followed by the European 
Commission. This will include the following 
coordinated instruments over the next five y
ears (a) reform financ
ing through Development 
Policy Loans (World Bank two-single tranch loans in 2010 and 2011) and Budget Support (EC 
over 2012-14), which will support a common set of 
reforms to improve the functioning of the 
labor market, especially young gra
duates’ school-to-work transi
tion, (b) technical assistance, 
which will build the capacity for employment in
termediation and labor market analysis, and (c) 
trust funds to pilot innovative forms of employ
ment in social entrep
reneurship. Thus, the 
Page  3
proposed Employment DPL enga
ges both the World Bank and th
e European Commission with 
coordinated policy and technical 
assistance. In addition, UNDP s
upports the GT’s preparation of 
several targeted studies that in
form actions in the second DPL. 
 
4.
 
Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
50 
 Total 
50 
 
5.
 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The responsibility for implementing the program 
rests with the Ministry of Development and 
International Cooperation, which wi
ll coordinate all relevant activ
ities with other Ministries. The 
Government will take the lead in mon
itoring progress in implementation.   
 
6.
 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Policies and interventions to be supported by the proposed program are supposed to lead to more 
efficient and effective job entry. The program ai
ms to improve labor market programs, labor 
intermediation, as well as the information base
 on which employment policies can be based. 
 
There are four moderate to high risks covering the political, macro, institutional and technical 
spheres and mitigation measures have been set 
up for all. On the political side, it will be 
important to promote greater efficiency and equity
 at the same time and to build the process on 
broad national consensus building. The actions s
upported by this proposed DPL will be specific 
and serve as first steps to gradually build mo
mentum for reform. Also, the World Bank has pro-
actively supported the GT’s co
mmunication about employment polic
ies to stakeholders and the 
social partners have been integrated in the 
dialogue on options for reform in the areas of 
employment from the very beginning. In terms of macroeconomic risks, Tunisia is still 
experiencing the aftermath of the crisis an
d the level of and changes in employment 
opportunities will largely depend on the business 
cycle. The program supported by this DPL has 
been carefully set up to include measures that can mitigate the crisis’ impact on employment in 
the short and long term (e.g., the se
quencing of reform measures is 
mindful to the impact of the 
crisis). Ensuring adequate inst
itutional capacity to support refo
rm implementation as well as 
ensuring cooperation between differe
nt ministries (such as the Mi
nistry for Vocational Education 
and Employment and the Ministry 
of Social Affairs, Solidarity, and Tunisians Abroad) is a key 
challenge. The Government is aware of this issu
e and this is dealt with to some extent by 
augmenting the teams for international coopera
tion and for statistics and by forming inter-
ministerial commissions with repr
esentatives from Ministries as 
well as other concerned parties. 
Similarly, several actions require
 cross-institutional cooperation. 
 
Page  4
7.
 
Poverty and Social Impact
s and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed policy reforms included in Objective 2 of the DPL – reform of the labor code and 
the safety net for redundant workers - are assume
d to have the strongest positive distributional 
effect but at the same time to 
carry a short term negative social risk. Unemployment is the main 
social issue in Tunisia at the moment and the 
President’s program gives employment a very high 
level of priority (6th point of the 24-point el
ectoral program). At the same time, because job 
protection is at the core of the 
social contract in Tunisia, the 
government is in the process of 
enlisting the support of different stak
eholders, including powerful unions.  
Tunisia’s current dual labor markets hampers acce
ss to good jobs by vulnerable groups such as 
youth and women. This barrier to formal job entry 
can also prevent them 
from being covered by 
formal social insurance, including income sup
port programs. Moreover, separation decisions 
may be biased against young work
ers with temporary contracts, 
as severance transaction costs 
are higher for older and more experienced work
ers. The majority of 
employment protection 
legislation applies to those hired under a perman
ent contract. For those on temporary contracts, 
the unemployed and workers without contracts, the 
proposed reforms are likely to be beneficial.  
To ensure buy-in of the shrinki
ng share of the labor
 force who benefit from current programs, it 
will be essential to accompany greater flex
ibility with greater income security.  
As part of the reform to improve labor mark
et dynamics to allow for restructuring of the 
production structure towards higher value-added sect
ors, an important mitigating measure will be 
to strengthen the social safety net for worker
s outside of firms (laid off workers and needy 
groups).
 
This will be a first step to modernize 
and expand Tunisia’s safety net for the 
unemployed.  
The second set of proposed policy reforms included
 in Objective 2 - to move towards managed 
migration to benefit from international mobility of workforce - is considered to have positive 
social and poverty impacts. Legalizing and re
gulating public and privat
e labor intermediation 
ensures a more efficient placement of Tunisi
ans abroad, thereby increasing the positive 
externalities of international migration for T
unisia through remittances and other channels. 
Efficient intermediation in combination with a transparent and recognized National 
Qualifications Framework helps 
to counteract “brain drain”. Ov
er the longer run, however, the 
cost of skilled migration might outweigh the bene
fits if the depletion of skills is a binding 
constraint to economic development. This is not
 an immediate concern 
for Tunisia, given an 
increasingly educated workforce but insufficient labor demand. Yet, it is important to already 
now lay the grounds for data coll
ection (such as household or migr
ation surveys) to allow for a 
proper monitoring of the determinants
 and consequences of migration. 
The proposed policy reforms included in Objective 
1 of the DPL – facilitate employment through 
more efficient Active Labor 
Market Policies (ALMPs), 
including pilot ALMPs for young 
graduates and women, and reform of the work 
process of the public employment agency by 
introducing personalized case management for l
ong-term unemployed - is expected to have 
positive effects on the labor market
 of these particular vulnerabl
e groups. The proposed action to 
reduce the unconditional access to all ALMP a
nd to add new and stricter conditions for 
eligibility for all ALMP
, which include an income benefit component,
 
carries a distinct social 
and poverty risk in the short term and in a crisis situation.
 
The assumption is that the measure 
will provide incentives for the unemployed to increase the intensity of their job-search. This 
action risks increasing the barriers for young jobseek
ers in the short term, and as such can be 
Page  5
seen to have a limited negative social impact. In 
the longer term the measure, as demonstrated in 
other countries, is likely to change behavior a
nd strengthen the young jobseekers ability to self-
help in the job-market. Finally, the proposed po
licy reforms included in Objective 3 – foster 
monitoring, evaluation and dissemi
nation of employment data - are not expected to have any 
adverse social or poverty effects.  
Overall, policies supported by the proposed loan ar
e not likely to have any significant adverse 
environmental impacts on the country’s enviro
nment, forests and othe
r natural resources.  
 
8.
 
Contact point 
Contact: Rebekka E. Grun 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4984 
Fax:  
Email: rgrun@worldbank.org 
 
9.
 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
