                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR2305



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-79300)



                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                     TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                     FOR AN

                 EMPLOYMENT DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                  March 28, 2012




Human Development Sector
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  Exchange Rate Effective March 8, 2012

                      Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar
                             1.00 = US$ 0.665
                           US$ 1.00 = 1.50416

                FISCAL YEAR: January 1 – December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALPM:    Active Labor Market Policy
ANETI:   Public Employment Agency (Agence nationale de l’Emploi et du Travail
         Independant)
BPT:     Business Plan Thesis
CAIP:    Professional Placement Contract (Contrat d’Adaptation et d’insertion
         Professionnelle)
CIDES:   Placement Contract of Higher Education Graduates (Contrat d’Insertion
         des Diplomes de l’Enseignement Superieur)
CPS:     Country Partnership Strategy
DPL:     Development Policy Loan
EC/EU:   European Commission; European Union
INS:     Statistics Institute (Institut National de Statistiques)
MDIC:    Ministry of Development and International Cooperation
NGO:     Non-Governmental Organization
NQF:     National Qualification Framework
ONEQ:    National Observatory for Employment and Qualifications (Observatoire
         National de l’Emploi et des Qualifications)
PDO:     Program Development Objectives
UGTT:    Workers’ Union (Union Generale des Travailleurs Tunisiens)
UNDP:    United Nations Development Program
UTICA:   Employers’ Association (Union Tunisienne de l’Industrie du Commerce et
         de l’Artisanat)




                  Vice President:       Inger Andersen
                 Country Director:      Neil Simon Gray
                 Sector Manager:        Yasser El Gamal
                Task Team Leader:        Rebekka Grun
                ICR Team Leader          Rebekka Grun
              TUNISIA EMPLOYMENT DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS




     Data Sheet
     A. Basic Information
     B. Key Dates
     C. Ratings Summary
     D. Sector and Theme Codes
     E. Bank Staff
     F. Results Framework Analysis
     G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
     H. Restructuring


1.    Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ....................................... 1
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................... 6
3.    Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................................... 10
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome...................................................... 18
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................ 18
6.    Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................... 20
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ... 20

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......... 22
Annex 2: Key economic indicators ................................................................................ 23
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................ 24
Annex4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .................................................. 26
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................. 29
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................... 30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... 31
Annex 8. Country MAP ................................................................................................. 33
A. Basic Information
                                                                                Tunisia Employment
Country:                  Tunisia                     Program Name:
                                                                                DPL
Program ID:               P117161                     L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-79300
ICR Date:                 03/08/2012                  ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                                REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:       DPL                         Borrower:
                                                                                TUNISIA
Original Total
                          USD 50.00M                  Disbursed Amount:         USD 50.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           USD 50.00M
Implementing Agencies: ANETI, INS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: EC and UNDP

B. Key Dates
                                                                                     Revised / Actual
     Process                Date                 Process             Original Date
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:           12/16/2009       Effectiveness:                              12/20/2010
Appraisal:                05/24/2010       Restructuring(s):
Approval:                 07/01/2010       Mid-term Review:
                                           Closing:                   06/30/2011       06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Moderately unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          Moderate
Bank Performance:                                     Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                       Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:                     S               Government:                       S
                                                      Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                S                                                   S
                                                      Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                          Overall Borrower
                                       S                                                   S
Performance:                                          Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                     QAG Assessments
                                    Indicators                                        Rating:
     Performance                                          (if any)
Potential Problem                                     Quality at Entry
                            No                                                None
Program at any time                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                             Quality of
                        No                                                    None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                   100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                                      12
Improving labor markets                                                  88

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:                         Inger Andersen                        Shamshad Akhtar
Country Director:                    Neil Simon Gray                           Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:                      Yasser El Gamal                          Roberta.V. Gatti
Program Team Leader:                 Rebekka E. Grun                          Rebekka E. Grun
ICR Team Leader:                     Rebekka. E Grun
ICR Primary Author:                  Jerome Chevallier

F. Results Framework Analysis
Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall objective of the proposed DPL series was to improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of job entry in Tunisia.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority) No

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
 Indicator                   Baseline      Target         Most recent          Dec      Comments
                                           June 2012      information          2011
 Facilitate employment through well targeted and efficient ALMPs
 Beneficiaries of BPT are   0              65% of          28% (Sept.          N/A      Target not met
 employed for at least one                 graduates       2011)
 year
 Sustainable labor market   0              50%             0                            Action was to
 insertion of at least 50%                                                              be taken under
 of childcare participants                                                              2nd DPL
 ANETI’s rate of filling    81%            85%                                 33.2%    Target not met
firms’ job offers posted in
a given year
CIDES take-up by              2,387         5,000      3,996 (Nov.      1,018      Target not met
graduates and employers                                2010)
CAIP take-up by non-          16,206        20,000                      37, 629    Target met
graduates and employers                                                 (Dec
                                                                        2011)
Share of long-term            16%           12.8%      14.5% (Nov       16.5%      Target not met
unemployed declines (>                                 2009)            (Nov.      but trend was
24 months)                                                              2011)      promising
Coverage of all job           21%           35%        31.2%            25.3%      Action to be
seekers through ANETI                                                   (Nov.      taken under 2nd
                                                                        2011)      DPL
Share of ANETI’s budget 5%              10%              NA             N/A
for ALMPs delivered
through private and third
sectors
Enhance domestic and international mobility of the labor force
Restrictions to contract                Yes              No                        Action was to
termination for open-ended                                                         be taken under
redundant workers revised                                                          2nd DPL
Coverage for laid off workers 5.4%                       5.58%          9.78%      Target met
by safety net increases                                                 (Nov
                                                                        2011)
Quota share of migrants to         16%      40%        31.1%            36.4%      Target not met
France                                                                             but trend was
                                                                                   promising
No of applicant CVs sent to        1,000    2,500      1,000 (Nov.      N/A        Target not met
employers or employment                                2010)
agencies abroad
Share of international             0.003%   1.5%       NA
employment contracts
facilitated
Number of international            4                   69 (Nov. 2010)   1821       This indicator
contracts facilitated by                                                regular,   replaced the
ANETI                                                                   999        previous one
                                                                        seasonal
Proportion of training centers 33%        40%           NA              NA
providing a degree
recognized (national
standards)
Strengthen the monitoring evaluation and dissemination and mainstream
evidence-based policy-making
No of conventions to          0 formal, 5 7                             6          Target met
transfer files between INS informal                                     informa
and other public agencies                                               l+2
                                                                        formal
                                                                        (on-
                                                                        going)
INS and ONEQ adopt            No            Yes        No               No         Target not met
each a work plan to apply
the new nomenclatures
ANETI has computerized        No            Yes        Yes              Yes        Target met
files of employment
seekers
 Common identification         No           Yes       Work on-going,        Action was to
 number is included in al                             priority of INS.      be taken under
 employment-related                                                         2nd DPL
 databases


G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
         Date ISR
No.                                  DO                     IP           Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1     01/10/2012          Moderately Satisfactory    Satisfactory               49.88

H. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable
1.     Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

1.      Over the previous decade, Tunisia showed consistent economic growth,
averaging some 4.8 percent per year. Drivers of the economy were domestic
commercial services that accounted for almost 50 percent of GDP and some 40 percent of
employment, and a relatively diversified, export-oriented manufacturing sector, and
agriculture. The latter accounted for 10 percent of GDP and 11 percent of employment.
Efforts to move towards higher value-added production were under way, but
transformation was proceeding slowly. The global financial crisis in 2009 had a
moderate effect on macroeconomic stability, but a sharp one on exports, which declined
by 25 percent. The unemployment rate increased only by one-half a percentage point to
14.7 percent, however, due to labor market regulations that made it difficult to fire
employees, and tax relief granted to firms facing market pressures. Thanks to stimulus
measures taken by the government, including a 20 percent increase in public investment,
the decline in the growth rate was limited. It is estimated that the growth rate declined to
3.1 percent in 2009. Key economic indicators are in Annex 2.

2.      The labor market was deteriorating in spite of economic growth. There was a
high rate of unemployment among low-skilled workers and among young and educated
entrants to the labor force (44 percent). Projections indicated that the situation would
worsen for university graduates, as only a limited number of jobs were expected to be
created at this level, while the number of new entrants in the labor market with a
university degree was rapidly increasing. On the other hand, there was a serious shortage
of technicians. The labor market situation was also deteriorating with respect to quality
of employment, with over 70 percent of youth aged 15 to 24 and low-skilled individuals
working without a contract. This situation was due to a number of factors, including
limited flexibility in formal employment and centralized wage setting system favoring
long-term employees belonging to the UGTT trade union, and overly inflated entry level
salaries for university graduates. Unemployment benefits were provided only to
permanent workers laid off for economic reasons (only 1,441 individuals received
benefits in 2008).

3.      A number of Bank sector studies pointed to persistent weaknesses in the
labor market, which all contributed to low job creation. Major factors included
deficiencies in the education and training of workers, rigidities in labor legislation and
regulations, insufficient intermediation mechanisms and poor investment climate. In
particular, the following issues were highlighted: (i) the education system did not respond
well to the needs of the labor market, leading to a simultaneous over-supply of graduates



                                             1
and shortages of vocational technicians; (ii) mobility in and out of jobs was low and
unemployment spells were long, reflecting rigidities and transactions costs caused by
employment laws and regulations and centralized wage setting; and (iii) a business
environment that constrained innovation and expansion, especially of small business. In
the 2010 Doing Business report, Tunisia ranked 69 out of 183 countries. Its rigidity of
redundancy index at 80 was relatively high. ANETI, the public employment agency,
provided traditional public employment intermediation with limited results.

4.      The key priority of the 11th Development Plan (2007-2011) was employment,
both in number and quality of jobs. The government’s intentions were to: (i) stimulate
labor demand through private sector-led investment in high value added and innovative
enterprises; (ii) increase the availability of skills through a lifelong education and training
system; and (iii) improve matching between demand and supply in the labor market. The
2010-2013 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), which was discussed by the Executive
Directors on December 17, 2009, supported this government priority through the first
strategic pillar, employment growth and competitiveness. To address the country’s
employment challenge and assist its transition to a knowledge-based economy, pillar 1
focused on strengthening the demand for labor and fostering the employability of labor.
On the labor demand side, the lending program included the Second Integration and
Competitiveness Development Policy Loan (DPL), aimed at improving the investment
climate, the Third Export Development project, and an Energy Efficiency project. On the
labor supply side, the program included two education projects – one for basic education
and one for higher education. Finally, the program included a series of two DPLs,
including the operation under review, aimed at matching labor demand and supply. The
comprehensive approach to employment in the CPS was strongly endorsed by the
Executive Directors.

5.      The employment DPL series formed part of a five-year program which was
also supported by the European Commission (EC) and the UNDP. Financial support
would be granted first from the Bank followed by the EC. This was to include coordinated
instruments over the 2010-2014 period for (a) budget support through two single tranche
DPLs in 2010 and 2011 followed by EC assistance for the years 2012-14, to promote a
common set of reforms to improve the functioning of the labor market; (b) technical
assistance to build capacity for employment intermediation and labor market analysis,
and (c) trust funds to pilot innovative forms of employment in social entrepreneurship.
UNDP would support the government’s preparation of several targeted studies to inform
actions in the second DPL.




                                              2
1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

6.      The overall objective of the proposed DPL series was to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of job entry in Tunisia. The first operation was expected
to improve (i) active labor markets programs (ALMP), including tapping new sources of
job creation and facilitating employment through well targeted and efficient ALMPs; (ii)
labor intermediation, including improving labor market dynamics to allow for
restructuring of the production structure and moving towards managed migration to
benefit from international mobility of the work force; and (iii) the information base to
guide employment policies, including coordinating data production, harmonizing data
nomenclature, and mainstreaming evidence-based policy making. Key outcome
indicators are in Box 1 below.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

7.     In December 2010, the onset of the Tunisian revolution ushered in a period of
uncertainty. When the Bank engaged with the post-revolution interim government in
February 2011, management decided not to proceed with the second DPL and instead to
incorporate a limited set of employment reforms into a multi-sector DPL that would
respond to current priorities.

Box 1: Key outcome indicators (for the 2 DPLs)
 Objective 1: Tap new sources of job creation
     Increased employment opportunities for recent university graduates. More than 65
        percent of university graduate student beneficiaries of the pilot self-employment
        program are employed for at least a year.
     Sustainable labor market insertion of at least 50 percent of program participants
        (child care providers).
 Objective 2: Facilitate employment through well-targeted and efficient ALMPs
     More effective public labor market intermediation: (i) ANETI’s rate of filling firms’
        job offers posted in a given year increases from 81 percent (2009) to 85 percent
        (2012); (ii) take-up of placement contracts for higher education graduates, by
        graduates and employers increases from 2,387 (during all of 2009) to at least 5,000
        (end 2011) and (iii) take-up of conversion and professional placement contracts by
        non-graduates and employers increases from 16,206 (during all of 2009) to at least
        20,000.
     Better targeting and coverage of public employment services (i) share of long-term
        unemployed decreases from 16 percent (2007) to an inferior percentage in 2012, and
        (ii) coverage of all job seekers through ANETI increases from 21 percent (2007) to
        35 percent (2012)
     More efficient provision of employment services through increased private sector


                                            3
          involvement: share of ANETI’s budget for ALMPs delivered by private or third
          sector increases from 5 percent (2009) to 10 percent (2012).
 Objective 3: Improve labor market dynamics to allow for restructuring of the production
 structure
   Moving from job protection to income protection: (i) restrictions to contract termination
   for open-ended redundant workers are revised to allow employers easier economic
   adjustment. Baseline: employers need to notify/ask approval from a third party before
   terminating one or more redundant workers; and (ii) coverage of laid-off workers by a
   safety net increases from 5.4 percent.
 Objective 4: Move towards managed migration to benefit from international mobility of the
 work force
   More and better matching of migrants into jobs abroad: (i) increase quota share of
   migrants to France from 16 percent in 2009 to 40 percent in 2012; (ii) increase number of
   applicant CVs sent to employers or employment agencies abroad by 150 percent (from
   1,000 in 2009 to 2,500 in 2012; (iii) increase share of international employment contracts
   facilitated from 0,003 percent in 2009 to 1.5 percent in 20012; and (iv) increase proportion
   of public and private training centers that currently provide a degree that is valid and
   recognized with the institutionalization of national training standards from 33 percent in
   2009 to 40 percent in 2012.
 Objective 5: Coordinate data production
   Effective data sharing among public bodies: the number of conventions to transfer files
   between the statistical agency and public agencies rises from 0 (2009) to 7 (2012).
 Objective 6: Harmonize data nomenclature
   Utilization of harmonized nomenclatures: the statistical institute and the national
   employment observatory each adopt a work plan to apply the new nomenclatures of 2009.
 Objective 7: Mainstream evidence-based policy making
 Facilitation of relevant employment data to decision makers: (i) ANETI has computerized
 the files of employment seekers and (ii) the national identity card is included in all data
 bases related to employment as a unique identifier.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

8.       Three policy areas were specified: (i) facilitate employment through active labor
market policies; (ii) enhance domestic and international mobility of the labor force; and
(iii) strengthen the monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of employment data and
mainstream evidence-based policy-making. A policy matrix set out the policy actions,
both prior actions and accompanying measures, as well as the expected results of each
policy action in 2012. It also contained a five-year vision for each policy area, reflecting
the Government’s five-year perspective.

Policy area 1: Facilitate employment through active labor market policies




                                              4
9.      Policy actions under this objective fell into two categories: (i) measures to tap
new sources of job creation; and (ii) measures to facilitate employment through well-
targeted and efficient ALMPs. Under the first DPL, the Government would launch pilot
programs on self-employment and community child care; undertake a restructuring of the
ALMP menu of services, including the introduction of modern case management for
long-term unemployed; and encourage private sector and NGO involvement in the
delivery of employment services. These measures would be met by issuing necessary
regulations, and in the case of community child care, drawing up terms of reference and
calling for bids. Under the second DPL, the ALMP pilot would be implemented, and new
quality standards for community child care would be issued. ANETI would be
reorganized, including strengthening regional and local offices, and mobile units
launched on a limited basis. A study and a stakeholder consultation on private
employment intermediation would be undertaken, resulting in a proposal to encourage
job placement.

Policy area 2: Enhance domestic and international mobility of the labor force

10.     Policy actions under this objective fell into two categories: (i) improving labor
market dynamics to allow for a restructuring of the production structure; and (ii) moving
towards managed migration to benefit from international mobility of the work force.
Under the first DPL, an inter-departmental commission was to be set up to develop terms
of reference for a study that would assess the protection system for laid-off workers and
formulate options for reform. An international employment division was to be
established in the employment agency - ANETI - to provide language and technical
training to prospective migrants, and to develop a national qualifications framework.
Under the second DPL, options for reform of the protection system were to be addressed;
a decree for regulating activities of private international employment agencies was to be
submitted for presidential approval; competencies defined under the national
qualifications framework were to be translated into training programs for two sectors.

Policy area 3: Strengthen the monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of
employment data and mainstream evidence-based policy-making

11.     Policy actions under this objective fell into three categories: (i) coordinating data
production; (ii) harmonizing data nomenclature; and (iii) mainstreaming evidence-based
policy making. Under the first DPL, the coordination of data production was to be
strengthened by formalizing transmission of data files between public agencies and the
National Statistical Institute (INS) and setting up a technical committee to coordinate data
production. Under the second category, a revision of the activities and product
nomenclature was to be undertaken to accord with UN and EU practices. Under the third
category, a series of benchmarks were chosen to support evidence-based decision-making



                                             5
in employment policy, including setting objectives for a management information system
to track vocational training and higher education graduates, and clients of the ALMPs, as
they enter the labor market. Under the second DPL, the technical committee was to be
operational, i.e., it was to meet on a regular basis and produce annual schedules for data
production and publication; and data was to be routinely transmitted. On harmonization,
a revision of the nomenclature for occupations was to become operational. For evidence-
based policy-making, an action plan would be produced to introduce a unique identifier
for all national data bases.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas and Other Significant Changes: N/A

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Program Performance
12.    The loan was approved on July 1, 2010. It became effective on December 20,
2010 and closed on June 30, 2011.          Given there was no second DPL, and the
employment reforms supported under the GO DPL diverged from those identified for the
second DPL due to post-revolution priorities. The eight prior actions for DPL 1 are listed
in Box 2 below.

Box 2 Prior actions
 Circular to launch a pilot program to provide support for students seeking to establish their
 own companies upon graduation through the preparation of business plans - Business Plan
 Theses (BPT) – and decision allowing such BPTs as undergraduate theses.
 Decree restructuring Active Labor Market Policy menu towards better efficiency.
 Decree requiring ANETI to offer individual-centered job seeking assistance (modern case
 management) for the long-term unemployed.
 Decree to encourage increasing involvement of the private and non-governmental
 organizations in the delivery of employment services.
 Establishment of the international employment division responsible for international labor
 intermediation at ANETI, which has initiated engagement with international employer
 associations and facilitates language and technical training for prospective migrants in
 cooperation with the International Organization for Migration.
 Decree establishing the National Qualification Framework (NQF), including a commission
 responsible for its implementation; order setting forth the composition and operating
 mechanism of the implementing commission.
 Order to stipulate the procedure for exchange of data files between the National Statistics
 Institute (INS) and public agencies for statistical purposes.
 INS has harmonized its nomenclature of products with the nomenclatures of the UN and the
 EU for statistical purposes.




                                              6
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

Adequacy of government commitment

13.     The government commitment to the reform program was lukewarm. It made
employment creation a national priority, including exploring expansion of under-
provided public services as a means for job creation. It was fully aware of the need
accelerate the transformation of the Tunisian economy towards higher productivity and
creation of high value added jobs, but was not prepared to upset well entrenched interests
that opposed these reforms. It made employment creation a national priority, including
exploring expansion of under-provided public services as a means for job creation. It
stated its intentions to introduce reforms to (i) enhance demand for labor through
improving the business environment and providing incentives for innovation, (ii) increase
the supply of skilled labor through reforming the education system; and (iii) improve
policies for facilitating the matching of labor demand and supply. The government
conducted broad strategy consultations on the reform program with key stakeholders in
the context of the National Consultation on Employment in 2008.

Soundness of background analysis

14.     In close cooperation with the Tunisian government, the Bank carried out a
three-year program of analytical work on employment which underpinned the DPL.
The recommendations of the analytical work were condensed in two multi-sector
economic analyses of macro-framework, investment climate, labor market, education
system and social protection (MILES 1 and 2). Barriers to employment were thoroughly
analyzed. These studies led the government to request Bank support for a reform program
through the DPL series. Additional work was conducted for the preparation of this DPL,
including the improvement of the ALMP portfolio and evaluation of service delivery at
ANETI, a stakeholder workshop on the labor code and employment assistance in January
2009, and an analysis of the institutional and legal framework for statistics and data
collection in Tunisia.

Assessment of operation design

15.     The operation involved a large number of institutions and partners, which
were not particularly innovation-driven. The reform program supported by this DPL
was modest. It was considered important to follow the pace of government in sequencing
reforms. The employment series would build up momentum for reform with politically
sensitive actions, such as labor code liberalization, scheduled for the medium-term. The
lessons from experience were taken into account, including aligning the program to the
country’s highest priorities of creating employment and ensuring social stability,
maintaining a flexible approach, focusing on a few key actions, ensuring that the program


                                            7
would follow the pace of government reform, setting up a monitoring and evaluation
system within the program, and building up institutional capacity of key agencies. A
substantial part of the program was aimed at improving the performance of existing
agencies. This was the case, for instance, for ANETI and INS. In terms of the choice of
instrument, it was agreed by the government and Bank that a DPL would be more
effective in building up key institutions than a technical assistance loan.

Risk analysis

16.     Four broad risk areas were identified: political, macroeconomic, institutional
and technical. In the first area, the government might be unwilling to undertake reforms
that would undermine social cohesion and peace. The issue of prolonged unemployment
of young graduates was highly sensitive. It had resulted in a few instances of outbreaks of
unrest, rapidly controlled by the authorities. To mitigate this risk, the Bank worked
closely with all stakeholders, including employers and workers unions, to reach a
consensus on the reform program. To build up a momentum for reform, it was agreed
that the first DPL would support specific actions which were not too controversial. The
Bank proactively supported the government’s communications about employment
policies. After mitigation, the political risk was considered high.

17.     During program preparation, Tunisia was still suffering from the aftermath
of the global financial crisis. The program was carefully designed to include measures
to facilitate employment creation, which would soften the impact of a global economic
downturn. After mitigation, the risk was considered moderate.

18.     The operation required collaboration among several ministries and agencies,
which could cause delays in implementation. Lengthy procurement procedures might
delay impact of public expenditure. Coordination of program implementation by the
Ministry of Development and International Cooperation (MDIC) was expected to
mitigate the risks of delays. It was not clear, however, whether MDIC had sufficient
capacity to coordinate the activities of the agencies doing the actual implementation.
After mitigation, the risk was considered moderate to high. The operation involved two
ministries (vocational training and social affairs), which had no experience in
implementing Bank-financed operations. The staff of the ministry in charge of
vocational training was reinforced in anticipation of implementation of the five-year
employment program. After mitigation, the risk was considered high.

19.     The risk analysis was less than fully adequate. It did not sufficiently focus on
the causes of deep frustrations among large segments of the population, who felt that an
increasingly predatory and repressive regime did not give them any prospects for
improving their living conditions. The Tunisian revolution was sparked by the self-


                                            8
immolation of a young man, who was the sole income earner in his extended family of
eight, in December 2010. This event triggered massive demonstrations against the
regime of longtime President Ben Ali.            Demonstrators protested against high
unemployment, food inflation, pervasive corruption, lack of freedoms, accountability and
dignity, and exclusion from the political process. Following the resignation of Ben Ali in
January 2011, there were several interim cabinets. On March 3, 2011, the interim
president announced that elections for a constituent assembly would take place in July
2011. These elections were delayed, however, to allow adequate time to register new
political parties, update the electoral database and ensure all voters had valid identity
cards. Elections took place eventually on October 23, 2011, with the Islamist Ennahda
Party winning the plurality of seats.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

M&E design

20.     A total of 23 indicators were selected to measure project results. Several of them,
particularly those concerning ANETI’s performance and those concerning the third
program component were process indicators. The Program Document (PD) did not
provide clear indications on how to measure the indicators selected. For some indicators,
the target date was April 2012. For the others, one would assume that the target date was
end-June 2012, the expected closing date of the second DPL. The third component of the
program supported by the operation was aimed inter alia at strengthening the monitoring,
evaluation and dissemination of employment data. The operation was thus designed to
build up systems for enhanced monitoring and evaluation of employment creation
programs.

M&E implementation

21.     The unsettled situation in Tunisia during most of 2011 undermined normal
operation of government administration. Data collection was clearly not a priority while
unprecedented events were taking place in the political arena. The first Bank formal
supervision mission of the program was completed in October 2011. Earlier supervision
missions did take place, in November 2010 and September 2011, but the counterparts did
not accept their Aide-memoires until later. There was a mission freeze during the peri-
revolutionary period. The missions did their best to collect relevant data. It provided
information for 11 indicators. For only two of them, there was information as of
September 2011. For all others, the information provided was as of December 2010 or
even December 2009.

M&E utilization



                                            9
The Business Plan Thesis component was carefully evaluated and the framework was
adjusted to take account of the findings, as explained below.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

22.     A Governance and Opportunity DPL was approved in June 2011 to help the
interim authorities secure the post-revolution political transition by supporting a program
of measures emblematic of better governance and opportunity. The DPL supports core
measures identified by the interim government to improve governance, employment and
regional development, financial sector and social policies. The measures focus on: (i)
improving transparency and accountability in a visible way to respond to the aspirations
of the population, and to signal to investors that Tunisia is creating a level playing field
for private sector-led growth; and (ii) taking immediate actions to relieve the plight of the
unemployed and the poorest and vulnerable families. There were two prior actions
concerning unemployment: (i) establish a new regulatory framework for the National
Employment Fund, starting with moving its management to the Ministry of Employment;
and (ii) design and implement a comprehensive unemployment support program to (a)
enhance the employability of high-skilled youth and promote their insertion into
permanent employment, and (b) assist low skilled unemployed through cash-for-training
and/or enhanced public works. The Bank is also providing an employment TA to assist
government in implementing the reforms. The single tranche operation was part of larger
budget support package prepared jointly with the African Development Bank, the French
Agency for Development, and the European Union, amounting to a total of
approximately US$1.4 billion.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

23.     The operation is as relevant now as it was when it was prepared. In 2011,
economic activity suffered from the unsettled post-revolution situation and political
transition. Growth declined by 1.8 percent, while the unemployment rate climbed to 18.3
percent. The unemployment rate of university graduates increased steeply to 29.2
percent. The unemployment rate in the 15-24 age group was over 40 percent as shown in
Table 1 below. In addition to unemployment remaining the overriding challenge for
Tunisia, many of the underlying causes that were present prior to the revolution remain:
the labor market remains rigid and needs to be reformed and the business climate needs
to improve.

Table 1: Unemployment rate by level of education and age group
                           2008           2009          2010                    2011
 By level of education


                                             10
 Illiterate                    4.2               6.1           5.7             8.0
 Primary education             10.6              10.4          9.2             12.4
 Secondary education           13.4              14.0          13.7            20.6
 Higher education              20.0              21.9          22.9            29.2
 By age
 15-19                         29.6              33.6          28.7            43.6
 20-24                         27.9              29.9          29.7            41.8
 25-29                         22.9              25.7          24.2            34.5
 30-34                         11.5              11.4          12.9            19.0
 Overall unemployment rate     12.4              13.3          13.3            18.3
Source: ONEQ


24.     The operation was designed to open up a reform path in a highly sensitive
policy area. It focused on modest achievements that would start a process leading to
moving from protection of jobs to protection of income. Resistance to change was
strong, and it was felt that a gradual approach would bring about results over time. The
Tunisian Revolution showed, however, that an economic and political system carefully
controlled by a small rent seeking elite proved unable to resist the pressure for change
from a large majority of the population who felt disenfranchised. The new government
has indicated its intention to pursue the reform program, including policy actions which
were to be supported by the second DPL (see a table on triggers in Annex 4).

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

25.     The operation was part of a two-operation series. The reform program under
the first operation was modest. In keeping with a gradual approach, the second was
expected to support more sensitive reform policies. The targets in the results framework
were set for June 2012, at the end of the series. As the second operation lapsed and the
Revolution brought about major disruptions in economic performance and government
operations, it is almost impossible to make a solid assessment of the achievements of the
first operation.

26.     Macroeconomic performance was good in 2010. The economy started to
recover from the global financial crisis, with growth estimated at 3.7 percent and inflation
at 4.5 percent. The fiscal deficit declined from 3 percent of GDP in 2009 to 1.3 percent
in 2010. On the other hand, the external current account widened from 2.8 percent of
GDP in 2009 to 4.8 percent in 2010. With the disruptions caused by the Revolution,
GDP growth is estimated to have declined to 1 percent in 2011. Annex 2 provides
information on key economic indicators.

Objective 1: Facilitate employment through active labor market policies (ALMPs)



                                            11
27.     The first objective was expected to be achieved through tapping new sources
of job creation and facilitating employment through well targeted and efficient
ALMPs. The first prior action was designed to help university graduates establish their
own companies through the preparation of a business plan that would be allowed as an
undergraduate thesis. During the 2009-2010 academic year, 1702 interested students
(about 10 percent of the overall student population) signed up for the first year of the
pilot. Among those selected for the pilot, about two thirds were women, with projects
predominantly in service areas, such as care for elderly, educational activities for
children, fashion, interior design, tourism, bee-keeping and recycling. The men who
were selected predominantly proposed business plans in technical, computer or
production areas, including computer-based architecture, solar energy, construction, and
computer networks. In academic year 2010/11, the program was scaled up and expanded
to include students in engineering and masters programs. The monetary prize awarded to
the 20 best students was no longer necessary to attract students, but access to credit
remained a serious constraint to converting a business plan into a running enterprise. In
May 2011, the government took two measures to facilitate access to credit and capital
(use of allowance to boost down payment and establishment of a special venture capital
fund). It is too early to gauge the impact of these measures.

28.     Another pilot was envisaged for community childcare. Under the pilot, early
childhood development in poor urban communities would contribute to creating jobs for
poor unemployed women. The pilot was expected to include 350 centers reaching from
3,500 to 4,200 children in five poor urban areas. The childcare cost would be covered by
a conditional cash transfer. A steering committee was established and consultants have
prepared a preliminary project proposal and an operational manual. The pilot was
expected to start during the second year of program implementation, with support from
the second DPL. The pilot has not yet started.

29.    Two prior actions were aimed at improving the effectiveness of ANETI
through a restructuring of the ALMP menu and the introduction of modern case
management for the long-term unemployed. The number of programs was streamlined
from 20 to 7 to eliminate redundancies, and conditions of access were specified for both
beneficiaries and employers to improve efficiency. Almost all ALMPs are now targeted
to specific job seeker groups and include access conditions. In particular, support is
conditional on the beneficiary’s own job-seeking efforts.

30.     ANETI has succeeded in improving its intermediation role. It has in particular
managed to increase the share of registered unemployed to total unemployed, a proxy for
the government capacity to reach out to the population in need of employment services.
It has also increased program coverage among non-skilled job seekers through a large
expansion of its vocational placement program (CAIP) designed to provide professional


                                           12
coaching. There was a positive trend in the decline of the share of long-term
unemployed, but it was reversed during 2011. The relevant target was not met, but it is
expected it may be met in 2013. On the other hand, ANETI has not improved its capacity
to visit firms and register vacancies.

31.     In March 2011, the new government introduced a new program called
AMAL aimed at new entrants in the labor market from university. The program provides
an unemployment stipend of TD 200 per month (about US$150), professional orientation
and training courses and internships. To administer the new program, which was not part
of the reform program supported by DPL 1, ANETI hired about 200 employment
advisors, but its capacity was heavily taxed as the number of beneficiaries swelled to over
185,000 individuals. This has seriously undermined ANETI’s intermediation capacity
and focus on the long-term unemployed. Because of the generous package of benefits,
AMAL has made it difficult for ANETI to deliver on pre-existing programs such as the
Placement Contract of Higher Education Graduates (CIDES). This explains in part the
less than satisfactory results on several indicators in the results framework.

32.     Prior action 4 opened the door to private sector and non-governmental
organization (NGOs) involvement in the delivery of employment services. This was
a controversial step, as the Labor Code does not allow such involvement and trade unions
oppose it. Private sector intermediaries operate in Tunisia, but outside the supervision of
the labor inspection. It was expected that this step would contribute to a gradual increase
in private intermediation, which would require at some stage the establishment of a
regulatory framework. No progress has been made in this area, as trade unions have
remained strongly opposed to private intermediation.

Objective 2: Enhance domestic and international mobility of the labor force

33.     The second objective was expected to be achieved through improving labor
market dynamics to allow for the restructuring of the production structure and moving
towards managed migration to benefit from increased international mobility of the
workforce. In May 2010, an inter-departmental committee (IDC) was established with
the objective of elaborating reform options for increasing the mobility of the workforce,
lowering the transaction cost of ending employment and improving the safety net for
workers without a job. The reform would eventually result in moving from protection of
jobs to protection of income.

34.     Two prior actions were specified to set up the stage for this broader reform
agenda. An international employment division was established in ANETI to develop
relations with international employer associations and facilitate language and technical
training for potential migrants. The National Qualification Framework (NQF) was


                                            13
established with a commission to set up a coherent and competency-based qualification
framework, which would be widely accepted by employers abroad. These two actions
would improve the matching of migrants with jobs abroad. Because of weaknesses in
ANETI’s M&E system, there is no information on the relevant indicator in the results
framework, except that there has been a strong increase in the number of contracts
facilitated by ANETI. Little progress was made in the preparation of proposals for
reforming the labor code and strengthening the safety nets, however, as the interim
government made it clear that the broader reform agenda would be suspended until a
permanent government was established.

35.    The government named by the Constituent Assembly elected in October 2011
is keen on moving on these issues. During the transition, the social partners themselves
underwent significant changes. UGTT is no longer the monopoly trade union; there are
many new smaller unions that are possibly closer to and more representatives of workers
and job seekers, including a union of unemployed graduates. The employer trade
association, UTICA, is no longer under tight government control. They make their point
much more clearly and forcefully, as has been observed in recent workshops.

Objective 3: Strengthen the monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of
employment data and mainstream evidence-based policy-making

36.     Objective 3 was expected to be achieved through coordination of data
production, harmonization of data nomenclature and mainstreaming of evidence-
based policy-making. Two prior actions stipulated the procedure for transmission of
employment-related data to the National Institute of Statistics (INS) from public agencies
and harmonized INS’s nomenclature of products with the nomenclatures of the UN and
EU. These two actions would ensure the consistency and comparability of employment-
related data regardless of the original source. Important advances were made in data
access and harmonization, but progress was slower than accepted due to strikes at INS.
the National Observatory of Employment and Qualifications (ONEQ) is in the process of
developing an operations manual for monitoring and evaluation of employment
programs. Data sharing and dissemination was constrained by security concerns during
the previous regime. The Revolution ushered much more openness in government. Two
decrees in 2011 introduced the right to information and the obligation for the government
administration to publish quarterly reports on their activities. INS is working with
external partners to make information from surveys available to the public.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory




                                           14
37.     Progress was made under components 1 and 3 in spite of difficult
circumstances. Not much was achieved under component 2, as key actions were to be
initiated under the second DPL. On the basis of available information on indicators, the
outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory, as most indicators show results lower than
targets. A lower rating would not be justified because of the promising trends observed
in some indicators early on. Table 2 below provides most recent information on the
indicators selected in the Program Document against program targets. There were
promising trends for several indicators, but these were undermined by the unsettled
conditions in 2011. Most targets were set for mid-2012, but for several indicators, recent
information is not available. There were no policy reversal and policy actions taken under
DPL 1 are expected to yield positive results in the future.

38.     In the first policy area, two programs were expected to be initiated (pilot for
childcare and private sector involvement in employment intermediation) under the
second DPL. Information is available for the remaining six indicators. In one case
(CAIP take up by non-graduates and employers), the most recent information on the
indicator shows results well above target. Results so far are below targets for all other
indicators.

39.     In the second policy area, no information is available for two indicators
(share of international employment contracts facilitated and proportion of training centers
providing a recognized degree). Another indicator was used for gauging results in
international employment contracts. The total number increased from 4 in December
2009 to 69 in November 2010 and took off to 1821 for regular contracts and 999 for
seasonal contracts. One indicator (coverage for laid-off workers by safety net) increased
slightly. Others were lower than targets.

40.    In the third policy area, progress has been made. INS has entered into 8
agreements, of which 6 informal, for sharing data on employment. INS and ONEQ have
worked closely together, but not yet reached an agreement on nomenclatures. ANETI
has computerized its files, which is a good step forward.

Table 2 Indicators revisited
 Indicator                        Baseline Target       Most          Dec 2011       Comments
                                           June         recent
                                           2012         informatio
                                                        n
  Facilitate employment through well targeted and efficient ALMPs
  Beneficiaries of BPT are      0           65% of      28% (Sept.    N/A            Target not
  employed for at least one                 graduates 2011)                          met because
  year                                                                               of events.
                                                                                     Program is



                                            15
                                                                                 being scaled
                                                                                 up
Sustainable labor market         0        50%        0                           Action was
insertion of at least 50% of                                                     to be taken
childcare participants                                                           under 2nd
                                                                                 DPL
ANETI’s rate of filling firms’   81%      85%                     33.2%          Target not
job offers posted in a given                                                     met
year                                                                             (negative
                                                                                 impact of
                                                                                 AMAL
                                                                                 program
                                                                                 likely)
CIDES take-up by graduates       2,387    5,000      3,996        1,018          Target not
and employers                                        (Nov.                       met
                                                     2010)                       (negative
                                                                                 impact of
                                                                                 AMAL
                                                                                 program
                                                                                 likely)

CAIP take-up by non-             16,206   20,000                  37, 629 (Dec   Target met
graduates and employers                                           2011)
Share of long-term               16%      12.8%      14.5%        16.5%          Target not
unemployed declines (> 24                            (Nov 2009)   (Nov. 2011)    met but trend
months)                                                                          was
                                                                                 promising
Coverage of all job seekers      21%      35%        31.2%        25.3%          Action to be
through ANETI                                                     (Nov. 2011)    taken under
                                                                                 2nd DPL
Share of ANETI’s budget for 5%          10%           NA          N/A            Information
ALMPs delivered through                                                          not available
private and third sectors
Enhance domestic and international mobility of the labor force
Restrictions to contract                Yes           No                         Action was
termination for open-ended                                                       to be taken
redundant workers revised                                                        under 2nd
                                                                                 DPL
Coverage for laid off workers    5.4%                5.58%        9.78% (Nov     Target met
by safety net increases                                           2011)
Quota share of migrants to       16%      40%        31.1%        36.4%          Target not
France                                                                           met but trend
                                                                                 is promising
No of applicant CVs sent to      1,000    2,500      1,000        N/A            Target not
employers or employment                              (Nov.                       met
agencies abroad                                      2010)
Share of international           0.003%   1.5%       NA
employment contracts


                                          16
  facilitated
  Number of international         4                     69 (Nov.       1821 regular, This
  contracts facilitated by                              2010)          999 seasonal indicator
  ANETI                                                                              replaced the
                                                                                     previous one
  Proportion of training centers 33%       40%         NA              NA
  providing a degree recognized
  (national standards)
  Strengthen the monitoring evaluation and dissemination and
  mainstream evidence-based policy-making
  No of conventions to transfer 0          7                           6 informal +   Target met
  files between INS and other    formal,                               2 formal
  public agencies                5                                     (on-going)
                                 informal
  INS and ONEQ adopt each a      No        Yes         No              No             Target not
  work plan to apply the new                                                          met, strikes
  nomenclatures                                                                       at INS were
                                                                                      a problem

  ANETI has computerized files No           Yes          Yes           Yes            Target met
  of employment seekers
  Common identification        No           Yes          Work on-                     Action was
  number is included in al                               going,                       to be taken
  employment-related databases                           priority of                  under 2nd
                                                         INS.                         DPL

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

41.     Poverty worsened during program implementation, as growth declined and
unemployment shot up, but these outcomes had nothing to do with the operation.
On the other hand, thanks to work done by ANETI, the share of registered unemployed to
total unemployed has increased, an indication that government is trying to reach out to a
group which is clearly part of the poorest segments of the population. Also, ANETI has
increased its presence in underprivileged areas.          The business plan pilot for
undergraduate students attracted much more interest from female students than from their
male counterparts. Whether the pilot translated into new enterprises which are still active
remains to be seen, however. The pilot on childcare in poor urban neighborhoods did not
start. A positive impact of the operation on social development was the interest exhibited
by non-graduates in the CAIP program, which provides professional training closely
related to the needs of employers.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening




                                            17
42.     The operation contributed to the strengthening of the Ministry of Vocational
Training and Employment. Its capacity was reinforced by the recruitment of new staff.
It provided leadership in program implementation. ANETI was also reinforced by the
recruitment of a large number of employment advisers. Its efficiency was enhanced by
the elimination of redundant programs, better targeting of beneficiaries, and an
introduction of conditionality for access to benefits. The INS role in setting standards for
employment statistics has been strengthened.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts N/A

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops.

43.    A survey of the beneficiaries of the Business Plan Thesis component has been
carried out. Interviews show the passionate take-up of the program and warrant cautious
optimism regarding the emergence of an entrepreneurial culture (see some statements
made by beneficiaries in Annex 3).

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

44.     As already mentioned the outcome of the operation is modest, but
achievements are likely to be sustainable and expanded in the future. ANETI and
INS have introduced new approaches to doing business. There is no reason to believe
that they will reverse course. The new authorities have shown interest in addressing the
issue of employment and safety net for the unemployed through dialogue with the unions.
The risk to development outcome is moderate.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

45.    The Bank invested a considerable amount of time and efforts to provide the
analytical foundations for the employment DPL series. It worked in close
consultation with other external partners and key shareholders to develop a reform
agenda for addressing the vexing issue of solid growth not translating into unemployment
reduction. It decided to address the issue through a comprehensive package of DPLs and
investment projects, which was strongly supported by the Bank’s Board of Executive
Directors. The decision to move with a DPL approach rather than an investment project


                                            18
made sense, as changes would have taken much more time in the latter case. The extent
of the difficult political economy, resistance from vested interests and the level of
corruption and rent-seeking were revealed when the Ben Ali regime fell. Together with
its partners, the Bank should have known better.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

46.     The Bank did its best to provide support to the Tunisian institutions involved
in program implementation, which was a difficult task under the unsettled conditions of
the Tunisian Revolution. It moved quickly to develop a support package for helping
Tunisia address its fast increasing unemployment problem in the framework of the
governance and opportunity DPL. The Bank fielded an implementation support mission
in October 2011. (Earlier supervision missions did take place, in November 2010 and
September 2011, but the counterparts did not accept their Aide-memoires until later.) The
October 2011 mission rated the operation moderately satisfactory on the basis of
promising trends in outcome indicators. However, latest information available on
indicators does not support this rating.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

47.     The Ministry of Development and International Cooperation, which was in
charge of coordinating program implementation, was under close scrutiny by the
Prime Minister and the President. Officials in the ministry understood the need for
reform, but were extremely careful in avoiding moves that would upset the delicate
equilibrium between unions of workers and employers. The ministry was also in charge
of supervising INS, and was not too much in favor of information dissemination. The
situation has changed with the Revolution, and the new government has shown much
more openness in recent months in discussing employment issues.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

48.     The institutions involved in program implementation did their best under
prevailing circumstances to carry out their activities and introduce changes, particularly
as concerns ANETI and INS. ANETI introduced new ways of doing business, such as



                                           19
case management and mobile units in underprivileged areas. INS worked with other
institutions to ensure a common approach on employment data.

49.    The performance of the Bank and of the Borrower is rated satisfactory, in
spite of the moderately unsatisfactory rating for the operation outcome. The Bank
and the Borrower did their best under difficult circumstances to develop and implement a
key reform program.

6.     Lessons Learned

50.    The Government and the Bank agreed that a DPL series would be an appropriate
instrument to help introduce reforms in a sensitive policy area. A substantial part of the
reform agenda, however, was focused on strengthening institutions such as ANETI and
INS. It would have been advisable to combine the DPL series with a TA project for that
purpose.

51.     Close coordination with main external partners, as was the case with the EU and
UNDP for the operation under review, is essential for moving a sensitive agenda, such as
the liberalization of labor legislation and practices.

52.      The Bank should not expect too much from consultations with stakeholders in a
country tightly controlled by the security apparatus. In the interviews carried out for the
preparation of the completion report, most interlocutors complained that there had been
too little consultation in the development of the reform program.

53.     In a society undermined by deep corruption and cronyism, statements from the
ruling elite should not be taken at face value. In his electoral program for 2009-2014,
President Ben Ali made employment a national priority. He promised reforms to address
the unemployment and social protection challenges. While he made his speeches, he was
strengthening the rent seeking system which was stifling entrepreneurship and job
creation.

54.    The previous regime, which seemed to be well entrenched, was swept away in a
short period of time. Solid political economy analyses are essential to better understand
the constraints and frustrations in a country where opportunities are scant because of
deeply embedded corruption.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers


                                            20
(c) Other partners and stakeholders

55.   No comments were received




                                      21
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
                              Sr Financial Management
Anas Abou El Mikias                                           MNAFM
                              Specialist
Salim Benouniche              Lead Procurement Specialist     MNAPR
Stefanie Brodmann             Economist                       MNSSP
Ndiame Diop                   Lead Economist                  MNSED
Emma Paulette Etori           Language Program Assistant      MNSHD
Luca Etter                    Junior Professional Associate   MNSSP
Rebekka E. Grun               Senior Economist                MNSSP         TTL
Ingrid B. Ivins               Statistician                    DECDG
Benedicte L. De La Briere     Senior Economist                HDNCE
Alaleh Motamedi               Senior Procurement Specialist   OPCPR

Supervision



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                               USD Thousands
              Stage
                                     No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending

                            Total:           45                       242
Supervision/ICR                              13                        67

                            Total:           58                       309




                                           22
                       Annex 2: Key economic indicators

                           2008    2009    2010 (est.) 2011 (proj.) 2012 (proj.)
GDP growth                  4.5%     3.1%       3.0%          1.1%         3.4%
CPI inflation               4.9%     3.5%       4.4%          4.0%         3.6%
Government finance (% of GDP)
Revenue (less grants and     23.8     22.8       22.8          20.7         21,5
privatization
Of which tax revenue         20.5     19.9       20.1          18.2         18.5
Expenditure                  24.9     25.8       24.2          25.9         26.2
Balance (commitment           -1.1    -3.0        -1.3          -5.1         -4.7
basis)
External sector (US$)
Current account            -1,708 -1,234       -2,118        -2,513       -2,217
Exports FOB                19,140 14,418      16,431         17,617      18,427
Imports FOB                23,141 18,117      21,005         20,841      22,553
Net non-factor services     2,637 2,525         2,460         2,281        2,599
Current account balance (%    -3.8    -2.8        -4.8          -5.3         -4.4
GDP)
Debt to GDP Ratio (%)        46.4     49.9       46.0          50.1         50.5




                                       23
                             Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results

1. Interviews of key actors involved in program preparation and implementation

A rapid survey of seven people1 involved with the program was carried out in November
2011. They were all asked to give answers to 10 questions as follows:

1. Were the program objectives relevant, clear and realistic?
Yes, but economic model and governance were serious problems, budget support is not
the adequate instrument and ANETI’s capacity was extremely low.

2. Were the indicators relevant and measurable?
Yes but there were some process indicators and for some indicator there were no targets.
Some of them did not reflect reality.

3. Was program implementation effective, in relation with program objectives? In
relation with unemployment challenge?
Yes but too modest in view of huge unemployment challenge. ANETI’s problems were
not addressed. Nothing was done concerning migrations. Everything has changed in
2011.

4. How could program implementation have been more effective?
Program was too modest. Need for extended consultations. Reduce burden of
employment offices. Sub-contract employment intermediation services. Get competent
people in concerned agencies. Improve coordination. Strengthen ANETI.

5. Has the program achieved its objectives?
Overall, no. The program has not addressed the unemployment challenge.

6. What are the main factors which have affected achievement of objectives?
Poor governance and severe weaknesses in Ministry of Employment and in ANETI. Poor
investment climate. Exclusion of key stakeholders (organizations involved were not
representative).

7. What about government ownership of the program?
No.

8. Lessons learned?
Mobilization of all stakeholders is essential for achieving results.



1
  People interviewed included a national expert working with a donor agency, a government official in
charge of employment offices, a government official in charge of studies and documentation, a
representative of UTICA, a university professor, an official working for ANETI, an official working for
MDCI, and a representative of UGTT.



                                                    24
9. Bank performance in TA and supervision?
Good, but meetings should have taken place outside Ministry of Employment.

10. What measures should be taken in the new Tunisian context?
First carry out an audit of the Ministry of Employment. Strengthen agencies. Wait and
start with a good diagnostic. Reform the labor code.
2.      A survey was carried out to assess the perceptions of participants in the
Business Plan Thesis competition. A few reactions from participants are below.

Participant of the Tunisia Business Plan Thesis Competition: “My expectations were very
high. I was going to fulfill my dreams. I was 100% sure to succeed. I thought that for
once in my life I was given the opportunity to speak about myself, my objectives, and my
aspirations in life.?

Female participant from Tunis: “The expectation was that the Competition would help us
find a job or start an independent project?

Female participant from Gabes : “There are not enough jobs, the business plan
competition is the only way.? Female participant

Female participant from Monastir: “I have not won a prize but I have won a formation.?

Male participant from Tunis: “Now I have more faith in myself. I know that any project
will be hard, that it will not work immediately, but I am ready.?

Female participant from Tunis: “Now I have an entrepreneurship culture. During the
training, I lived in the skin of an entrepreneur. Now I feel like an entrepreneur. (…) We
worked on our personality. I learned to believe in myself, to value myself. I left aside my
timidity, it was like a therapy.?

Male participant from Carthage: “I have become more autonomous. My behavior has
changed. I use my new skills, I am more disciplined.?

Male participant from Tunis: “A young entrepreneur explained his success during the
training. Now I want to do better than him.?

Female participant from Tunis: “I have a new vision of the future. I have not realized my
project yet, but in 5 to 10 years I will.?

Female participant from Tunis: “I now have a social network. I know who to consult.?

Male participant from Monastir: “The formation has broadened my contacts. It put me in
touch with bankers.?




                                            25
                   Annex 4. Triggers and benchmarks for DPL 2
Triggers DPL 2                                 Type      Status beginning 2012
1) The Ministries in charge have developed     Trigger    The underlying pilot preparation is
and published in the National Gazette new                progressing: the steering committee
quality standards for the local provision of             has subcontracted an operational
social childcare.                                        manual and a feasibility study.
The MVTE has implemented first phase of        Benchmark ANETI has started the reorganization:
reorganization of ANETI, including the re-               management, budgets and decision-
structuring of regional and local offices.               power have been decentralized to
                                                         local offices.
(2) ANETI has launched operative mobile        Trigger   The mobile units are technically ready
units to reach the population in at least                and equipped. However, they are kept
three remote rural areas of the West and                 in the garage, as ANETI fears
South.                                                   vandalism, as there are
                                                         demonstrations against stopping
                                                         AMAL.
The MVTE has conducted a study on the          Benchmark This has not yet happened, but will
private employment intermediation,                       happen in May during the National
including a suggestion for a new legal                   Employment Workshop (at least the
framework. The study has been consulted in               national discussion on these issues).
a stakeholder workshop.
(3) Following the results of the consultation, Trigger   Trigger not met.
a document has been submitted to the
relevant Ministers with reform options to
encourage the creation of private
enterprises specialized in job placement.
(4) The Inter-departmental commission          Trigger   The paragraph on social dialogue
consults with the stakeholders the options               reflects progress on this trigger.
to reform (i) employment regulation and (ii)
social protection mechanisms for laid off
workers, and submits a corresponding
document to the relevant Ministers.
(5) Decree for regulating the activities of    Trigger   Trigger met.
private international employment agencies
submitted for presidential approval.
MVTE, ANETI, ATFP and CENAFFIF have            Benchmark N/A
launched a pilot program for pre-departure
training including a rigorous impact
evaluation component.




                                        26
CENAFFIF works with stakeholders to               Benchmark N/A
translate competences established by the
NQF into training programs for 2 sectors
pertinent for migration and undertakes a
detailed comparison of differences and
similarities in training programs and
organizational structure in the same sectors
in different migration destinations in Europe,
North America, and Gulf countries.
The ministries and public agencies transmit       Benchmark An official procedure has been
to INS, and have access to data from the INS                established and is being used with the
on demand, as per the official procedure.                   Central Bank data. Not all ministries
                                                            apply it yet.
The technical committee meets on a                Benchmark An annual schedule for data
quarterly basis and publishes an annual                     production and publication is on the
schedule for data production and                            INS website. So far only three survey
publication, available on the INS website.                  micro datasets have been put online.
                                                            All demographics (household budget
                                                            surveys, LFSs and samples of census)
                                                            should be online by July 2012,
                                                            according to the timeline agreed with
                                                            INS.
6) The National Nomenclature of                   Trigger   Not met.
occupations, from 1997, has been revised in
order to harmonize it with the standards of
the ILO, through a corresponding
modification of Decree n° 97-2452 of 15
December 1997.
(7) The National Observatory for                  Trigger     INS is working on including a CIN in all
Employment and Qualifications (ONEQ),                         relevant databases and considers this
with the participation of the National Social                 a priority.
Security Fund (CNSS), INS and ANETI, has
established an action plan for the
introduction of the CIN as a unique
identifier for all official databases.
ONEQ has established a MIS system which           Benchmark ONEQ is planning to launch another
closely follows graduates of Vocational                     tracer survey soon.
Training and Higher Education.




                                             27
Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                      N/A




                      28
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              29
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                               30
                      Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

1. Tunisia and World Bank: Dynamique de l’emploi et adéquation de la formation parmi
   les diplômes universitaires. 2009

2. World Bank: Tunisia Global integration; a second generation of reforms to boost
   growth and employment. 2009

3. Migration and skills. The experience of migrant workers from Albania, Egypt,
   Moldova and Tunisia. 2010

4. World Bank: Tunisia: Development Policy Review. 2010

5. World Bank: Can unemployed youth create their own jobs? The Tunisia Business
   Plan Thesis competition, March 2011.

6. Interviews for the completion report. November 2011.




                                          31
Documents used for the preparation of the two DPLs
Policy Area          Note or Report                                                      Institution   Status
                     (i)     2008 and 2009 Article IV                                       IMF        Completed

                     (ii)    CGE Simulation Model (Technical Note, Institut                 IEQ        Completed
                             d’Economie Quantitative, FY08)
                     (iii)   MILES I: Skills Development, Social Insurance and the       World Bank    Completed
Macroeconomic                Labor Market (Policy Note, FY07)
Framework                                                                                World Bank    Completed
                     (iv)    MILES II: Labor Demand, Skills               Supply   and
                             Employment (Policy Note, FY09/10)
                     (v)     Tunisia Development Policy Review (2009/10)                 World Bank    Completed

                     (vi)    Tunisia Global Integration Report (2007)                    World Bank    Completed

                     (i)     Strategy for Employment (Gray Cover, FY04/5)                World Bank    Completed
                     (ii)    Tracer Study of the beneficiaries of the micro-credit/      WB/ONEQ       Completed
                             start-up program of ANETI and BTS (Survey and
                             Report, FY07)
                     (iii) Tracer Survey of the university graduate cohort of 2004       WB/ONEQ       Completed
                           and their labor market performance (Two surveys, and
                           two reports, FY08 and FY10)
Labor Market                                                                             WB/MEF        Completed
                     (iv)    Tracer Survey and Technical Note of Vocational
                             Training graduates and their labor market performance
                     (v)     MILES I: Skills Development, Social Insurance and the       World Bank    Completed
                             Labor Market (Policy Note, FY07)
                     (vi)    MILES II: Labor Demand, Skills               Supply   and   World Bank    Completed
                             Employment (Policy Note, FY09/10)
                                                                                         World Bank    Completed
                     (vii) A new menu of ALMP for Tunisia (December 2008)

                     (i)     MILES I: Skills Development, Social Insurance and the       World Bank    Completed
                             Labor Market (Policy Note, FY07)
Social Protection    (ii)    Strengthening the Unemployment           Benefit   System
                             (Technical Note, FY2009)                                    World Bank    Completed

                     (iii) Social Safety Net Assessment (FY11)                           World Bank     Planned

Improving Service    (i)     Process Evaluation and Reform Strategy for the Agence           ISO       Completed
Delivery                     Nationale d’Emploi et du Travail Indépendant

Statistics/          (i)     Rapport sur la situation statistique nationale               EuroMed      Completed
Monitoring     and
Evaluation




                                                         32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 33500R

38°N                                                            8°E                                                                      10°E                                                         12°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sicily
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                  M e d iterranean                                                         Sea
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (ITALY)
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                 La Galite                                                                            St
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                              ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                it
                                                                                                                                         Bizerte
                                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                                  BIZE RT
                                                                                                                  BIZ ERT
                                                                                                                  BIZERT E
                                                                                                                                                    Gulf of Tunis
                                                                         Tabarka                              .                                                                                                              Si
                                                                                             s          Mts                                  ARIANA
                                                                                                                                                   L'Ariana                                                                       ci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ly
                                           To
                                         Algiers                                        Atla                                                       TUNIS                                                      Pantelleria
                                                                                                          Beja                                                  NABEUL                                        (ITALY)
                                                                       JENDOUBA                                                                    Ben Arous
                                       To                               Jendouba
                                                                                                          BE JA
                                                                                                          BEJ A                                 BEN AROUS
                                      Sétif                                                                                                                           Nabeul
                                                                                     ue                                                            Zaghouan
                                                                                   eg
                                                                               ell                                            ZAGHOUAN
                                                                             M
                                                                                                    SIL IANA                                                  Gulf of Hammamet
36°N                                                                                Le Kef                         Siliana                                                                                                                        36°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Isole Pelagie
                                                                            KE
                                                                         LE KEF                                                                     SOUSSE                                                             (ITALY)
                                                                                                                                                                    Sousse
                                       To
                                      Sétif                                                                                                     Kairouan                Monastir

                                                                                        Thala                                                                       MONASTIR                                                      Lampedusa
                                                                                                                     KAIROUAN                                                                                                       (ITALY)
                                                                       KASSERINE                                                    ud
                                                                                                                                                                                  Mahdia
                                                                          El                                                      ro                  MAHDIA
                                                                                                                              Ze
            ALGERIA                                                            Ha
                                                                                  teb                                                                 El Djem
                                                         Jabal ash Shanabi
                                                                  (1544 m)                Kasserine                      Sidi
                                                                                                                         Bou Zid

                                                                                                        SIDI BOU                                   SFAX
                                                                                                           ZID                                                            Sfax
                                                                                                                                                                                      Kerkenna
                                                                         GAFSA                                                                                Maharès
                                                                                                                                                                                      Islands                  Mediterr an e an
                                                                          Gafsa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sea
                                                                                                                                                Skhira
                                                                                                                                                     Gulf of
34°N                                                                                                                                                 Gabes                                                                                        34°N
                                                      Tozeur                                                                                                               Houmt Souk
                                                                                                                                                 Gabes
                                                TOZEUR                                                                        El Hamma                                            Djerba
                                                                  Chott el Jerid                                                                                                  Island
                       To                                                                        Kebili                   GABES
                    Touggourt
                                                                                                                                                                                     Zarzis
                                                                                                                                                      MEDENINE
                                                                                                                                            Medenine
                                                                          KEBILI

                                                                                                                                                              Tataouine

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                         Al
                                                                                                                                                              -Ji                                                  Tripoli
                                                                                                                                                                    far
      0      25        50       75    100 Kilometers                                                                                                                      ah
                                                                                                                                                                               Pla
                                                                                                                              TATAOUINE                                              in
      0           25             50           75 Miles                                                                                          Remada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                L I B YA
                                                                                                                              g
                                                                                                                         Er
32°N                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                 ter
                                                                                                                                                      Dehibat                                          To
                                                                                                             s                                                                                       Mizdah
                                                          8°E
                                                                                                        Ea
                                                                                                    t
                                                                                               ea
                                                                                          Gr
                                                                                                         El Borma


                  TUN I S I A                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                           Dirj



                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                   GOVERNORATE CAPITALS

                   NATIONAL CAPITAL

                   RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                            TUNISIA
                   MAIN ROADS

                   RAILROADS

                   GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                               30°N
                                                                                                                                         10°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JANUARY 2007
