                                                                                                   97581
Tunisia: Employment DPL                                                                 September 28, 2010




 LABOR MARKET REFORM

 Boosting Employment in Tunisia




Overview
To help Tunisia address persistently high unemployment, particularly among youth, the World
Bank has provided both technical and financial support to underpin critical labor market
reforms. Among the results achieved to date, over 16,000 seekers found private sector
employment in 2009 and this is expected to reach 20,000 by 2011. Public employment
opportunities were found for 2,300 long-term unemployed Tunisians.


Challenge
                                                                 More Results
In spite of solid growth, unemployment in Tunisia remains
persistent. With growth levels near 5 percent over the last


                                                                 16,000
eight years, Tunisia still has a relatively high unemployment
rate at 14.7 percent (which was more than double the 6.4
percent for all middle income countries in 2008). The overall
rate masks a striking divergence by age, with younger            hired (vocational-technical)
                                                                 jobseekers in 2009
groups of the labor force being more affected. Unemployment
also increasingly affects the better-educated. The overall
unemployment rate of higher education graduates, which

                                                                 464
was below 5 percent in 1994, has increased significantly to
23 percent in 2009. Recent graduates face 46 percent
unemployment 18 months after graduation.
                                                                 jobs created based on
                                                                 innovative approaches among
Analyses of the legal and institutional framework of the labor   graduate students
market pointed to scope for improvement particularly in the
regulation of work contracts, employment services for
national and international placements, and open
dissemination of labor market information.
                                                                 MORE INFORMATION
Approach                                                          Employment DPL

                                                                  Country Website
The Government of Tunisia has chosen to pursue an
approach that reaches across several sectors to tackle            Country Brief
employment issues, and this approach is reflected in the          Country Partnership Strategy
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The different sectors
                                                                  Data and Statistics
which play a role in employment, (notably education/skills
supply, the private sector/labor demand and the labor market      Feature Story: Tunisia Global
and its institutions and regulations) are each addressed with     Integration Study
separate loan instruments.                                        Country Profile: Tunisia Grows
                                                                  Economy, Creates Jobs
Accordingly, the World Bank’s US$50-million development
policy loan to Tunisia, and its follow-up operation,
concentrate on the labor market and its institutions and are
designed to assist the government in its efforts to (i) facilitate  
employment through active labor market policies; (ii) enhance
domestic and international mobility of the labor force; and (iii)
strengthen the monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of employment data and mainstream
evidence-based policy-making.

Results

By implementing significant changes in policies and regulations governing the labor market, the
program backed by the government and supported by the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) has so far:

      Restructured the portfolio of active labor market policies;

      Reformed operations and processes of the public employment services to enhance
      efficiency and effectiveness, and allow for better assistance to the more difficult cases of
      long-term unemployed.

      Supported the hiring of over 16,000 (vocational-technical) jobseekers in 2009 by the
      private sector through public-private training initiatives. This is figure is expected to
      reach 20,000 by 2011.

      Helped create 464 jobs so far based on innovative approaches among graduate
      students, who have found it difficult to find jobs;

      Modernized laws, regulations, and processes of public employment services for the
      difficult-to-place, long-term unemployed cases. The effort has managed to find 2,300
      jobs so far and plans to place 5,000 by 2012.

Bank Contribution

A development policy loan (DPL) was prepared by the Bank and approved by its Board on July
1, 2010, for US$50 million as one of two DPL Series. Demand for this Series was the
culmination of a a multi-year dialogue anchored in economic studies and reports to analyze
Macro-, Investment-, Labor Market-, Education- and Social Protection aspects of employment
generation.  

Partners

The Tunisian Government invited the Bank and the European Commission (EC) to join forces
to support these reforms on the basis of a shared vision over a five-year perspective. In
addition, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) supports the Government’s
preparation of several targeted studies that inform actions under the second development
policy loan.

Toward the Future

Financial support would be granted first from the World Bank followed by the EC, including the
following coordinated instruments over the next five years: (a) reform financing through two
IBRD development policy loans in 2010 and 2011 and budget support from 2012 to 2014
through the EC, which will support a common set of reforms to improve the functioning of the
labor market, especially young graduates’ school-to-work transition; (b) technical assistance
from both the Bank and the EC, which will build the capacity for employment intermediation
and labor market analysis; and (c) Bank-facilitated trust funds to pilot innovative forms of
employment in social entrepreneurship.
The second of these development policy loans is scheduled for early fiscal year 2012. This
loan will underpin important changes in the labor legislation on employment (including new
forms of work) and layoffs.
 

 
