Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OmcaAL USE ONLY
UqeseNs. 9131
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND SEEDS PROJECT
(LOAN 2066-IND)
NOVEMBER 13, 1990
Operations Division
rtment V
L Office
restricted ditrbution and may be md by recipiets only ln the perforinae of
lt content may pot otherwise be disckned without WorM Bank authorization.



Currency EKuival.nt
Name of Currency      Rupiah
Rate of Exchange
Appraisal       US$ 1 - Rp. 625
82/83 - 86/87   US$ 1 - Rp. 674  - 1411
87/88 - 88/89   US$ 1 - Rp. 1649 - 1760
Fiscal Year of Borrower
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations
BRI      - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BS       - Breeder Seeds
DGFCA    - Directorate General of Food Crons' Agriculture
EEC      - European Economic Community
ES       - Extension Seeds
EEC      - European Economic Community
FAO      - Food and 4gricultural Organization, Rome
FS       - Foundation Seed
FCRI     - Food Crops' Research Institute
GDP      - Gross Domestic Product
GOI      - Government of Indonesia
GTZ      - German Technical Assistance
HYV      - High Yielding Varieties
IPB      - Institute Pertanian Bogor (Agricultural Institute)
KUD      - Village Cooperatives (Koperasi Unit Desa)
NSC      - National Seeds Corporation (Indonesia)
OECF     - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PSF      -Provincial Seed Farm
PSHS     - Perum Sang Hyang Seri (NSC)
PUSKUD   -Central Unit of Village Cooperatives (Pusat Koperasi Unit Desa)
SCCS     - Seed Control and Certificeation Service
SPC      - Seed Processing Centre
SS       - Stock Seed



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oc ae Oel.cuwGfoal
0_ EvaIution
November 13, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia Second
Seeds Proiect (Loan 2066-IND)
Attached,  for information,  is a copy of a repor. entitled
"Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Second Seeds Project (Loan 2066-
IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Off'ce with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thei document has a restricted d stribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. hIt contents imay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND SEEDS PROJECT (LOAN 2066-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE TO CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .....................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................  ii
PART  I        PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S  PERSPECTIVES
Project  Identify  ...... .................................                              1
Project  Background  and  Sectoral  Content  ....                       ............    1
Project  Objectives  and  Description  .....................    2
Project  Design  and  Organization  ........................                             3
Project  Implementation  .................................    4
Project  Results  ........................................    6
Project  Sustainability  .................................                               7
Bank  Performance  .......................................                               8
Borrower's  Performance  and  Project  Relationships  .... ...    9
Consulting  Services  ....................................   10
Project  Documentation  and  Data  .........................   10
PART  II  : PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  THE  BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVES
Project  Design  and  Organization  ........................   12
Project  Implementation  .................................   16
Project  Results  ........................................   17
Project  Sustainability  .................................   19
Finding  and  Lesson  Learnt  ............                  ..................   21
Bank  Performance  .......................................   23
Borrower's  Performance  .              ................................   24
Consulting  Services  ....................................   25
PART  III  : STATISTICAL  INFORMATION
Table  1:  Related  Bank  Loan  ...........                 ..................   21
Table  2:  Project  Timetable  .... ..  ......................   27
Table  3:  Loan  Disbursements  ..........                   ..................   27
Table  4:  Project  Implementation  ........................   28
Table  5:  Project  Cost  and  Financing  ....................   29
Table  6:  Project  Results  ...............................   31
Table  7:  Record  of  Compliance  with  Major  Covenants  .....   33
Table  8:  Use  of  Bank  Resources  .........................   34
ANNEX  1:    Implication  of  GOI  Seed  Replacement  Policy  ....                         .........   35
Accounting  System  and Audit  of  PT.  Pertani  ....                       .........   36
ANNEX  2:   Assumptions  Underlying  Economic  Analysis  ....                            ...........   37
Table  1:  ERR  Calculation  (Scenario  1)  ..................   38
Table  2:  ERR  Calculation  (Scenario  2)  ..................    q
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
SECOND SEEDS PROJECT (LOAN 2066-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Seeds
Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2066-IND in the amount of US$15.0 million
was approved on December 8, 1981. The loan was closed on schedule on
June 30, 1989. Last disbursement was on January 3, 1990 and an outstanding
balance of US$34,793 was cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III were prepared by
the Operations Unit, Resident Staff in Indonesia, Asia Regional Office.
Part JI was prepared by the Directorate of Food Crops Production Development
of the Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture in cooperation with the
National Seeds Corporation, PT. Pertani and the Department of Cooperative,
Government of Indonesia.
Preparation of the PCR was initiated in January 1989 in the course of
a regular supervision of the project. It was followed by a number of field
visits by the RSI Operations Unit staff. The PCR was prepared based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3121a-IND); the Loan Agreement
(2066-IND); minutes of Loan negotiations; correspondences between Bank and the
Borrower; internal Bank memoranda, various consultants' reports, and
discussions with the staff of the implementing agencies.



iii
INDONESIA
SECOND SEEDS PROJECT (LOAN 2066-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1. Objectives. The overall objectives of the project were to increase the
domestic production of foodcrops and raise the incomes of the small farmers
by: (a) improving the quality, reliability and availability of rice and
palawija (secondary food crop) seeds; (b) strengthening National Seeds
Corporation (NSC), PT. Pertani, the Seed Control and Certification Services
(SCCS), and selected cooperacives and Provincial Seed Farms (PSFs); and
(c) providing incentives for larger private sector role in the seed industry.
2. Implementation Experience. The project had a slow start-up, and
implementation during the first two years (following Board Presentation) was
substantially behind schedule. The key constraints were managerial,
logistical, financial and technical. Things, however improved progressively
from the third year and implementation was able to make up for most of the
lost time (Para 5.01). Shortages of vehicles seriously hampered the quality
and coverage of field operations, particularly of the SCCS staff, who often
had to depend on customer assistance for transport support. The Palawija
seeds production did not receive the focus that was intended at appraisal and
the stipulated linkages with the other relevant projects were not achieved
(Paras 5.02 - 5.05).
3. Project Result. The project achieved most of the physical targets for
infrastructure development, training, and project/sector related studies.
It has: (i) created a modern seed processing infrastructure in the public and
semi-public sectors that is currently underutilized but has the potential for
producing some 42,000 tons of certified seeds annually; (ii) provided training
to a large number of public sector officials involved in the various levels of
activities in the saed business; (iii) created the nucleus of a nationwide
seed certification and control service, a training infrastructure in Seed
technology; (iv) strengthened the financial management of the PT. Pertani and
the NSC, and (v) improved the planning, implementation and monitoring
capability of the Directorate of Food Crops (Para 6.01). However, total
output of certified seeds from the project financed Seed Processing Centres
(the key component of the project) have reached only about 60% of appraisal
estimates with major shortfalls in palawija seeds production (6% of appraisal
estimates,, (Para 6.02). The project also did not have much success in
promoting greater private sector participation in the seed industry, nor in
promoting effective participation of the cooperatives in seed business
(Para 8.01).  Based on alternative assumptions about -   utilization of the



iv
public sector Seed Processing Center and their costs of production, the economic
rate of return has been recalculated at 20.3% (scena,io I) and 24.6% (scenario II),
compared. to 39% estimated at appraisal (Para 6.04).
4. Sustainability. The project has built up a public sector seed production
and distribution system that is heavily dependant on budget subsidy and is not
as cost-efficient as the private sector entities. Given the political
difficulties of raising seed prices, it is unlikely that full costs of public
sector operation would be recovered by price escalation. The financial and
economic sustainability of the public sector operations will, therefore,
depend largely on how successfully measures to achieve more cost-effective
production systems are instituted, and an optimum mix of public and private
sector participation in the various componients o. the seeds production and
distribution system is achieved. The role of the SCCS will grow in
importance, especially in respect of s.    ontrol because of the large number
of small private producers and growerb. njwever, long-run sustainability will
require that the SCCS become a largely self-financing autonomous institution.
The small private sector seed industry that is thriving in competition with
the public sector has the potential for becoming the core of a progressive
seed i, ust:y but would require changes in government policies in order to
improve the incentives' structure (Paras 7.01 - 7.03).
5. Findings and Lessons Learnt. In retrospect, it would appear that, the
project, instead of concentrating on the expansion of public sector
infrastructure for meeting questionable seed production targets (Annex 1),
should have focussed more on: (i) strengthening support services for
production, retention and exchange/sales of good seeds by farmers; (ii)
creating the right environment for increased private sector participation in
seed business; and (iii) strengthening GOI's capability for technical and
financial assistance to private sector enterprises; quality control; varietal
development (particularly for palawija crops); and production and distribution
of newly released varieties and other seeds/planting materials which farmers
cannot produce themselves easily (e.g. hybrids, vegetables, fodder crops,
horticulture crops etc)[Para 4.04]. The main lessons learnt are as follows:
(a) in planning seed industry development, the importance of on-farm
production, retention and farmer-to-farmer exchange of seeds, particularly for
open-pollinated crops, should be appropriately recognized; (b) agronomic
rationale and the operational implications for replacing farmers' seeds with
certified seeds at periodic intervals need careful evaluation; (c) a vigorous
varietal breeding programme resulting in releases of superior genetic quality
is fundamental to the sustainability of the seed industry; (d) overly
sophisticated seed processing technology is not necessary for producing seeds
of the required quality; nor should seeds be processed to a higher standard
than that    demanded by farmers; and (e) strong national institutions for
policy setting and quality control, and clear definition of the respective
roles of the public and private sectors in a national seed production and
distribution system are necessary for promoting efficient growth of the seed
industry as a whole (Para 8.03).



Indonesia
Seconds Seeds Project (Loan 2066-INu)
Project Completion Report (PCRU
Part I - Proiect Review From Bank's Perspectives
1. Prolect Identity
Name          Second Seeds Project (Seeds II)
Loan No.      2066-IND
RVP Unit      ASIA (EAST ASIA and PACIFIC at appraisal)
Country       Indonesia
Sector        Agriculture
Sub-sector    Agricultural Support Services
2. Proiect Backzround and Sectoral Content
2.01. The key elements in GOI's rolicy for promoting growth of the food
crops sub-sector have been: (a) rapid development and dissemination o:
high yielding varieties (HYV) of rice suitable for growing in the
wetlands; (b) development of a range of HYVs in order to combat
disease/pest attack through seasonal varietal rotation; (c) expanding the
production of secondary food crops; and (d) improving/expanding the
overall phiysical infrastructure (irrigation development) and support
services (input supply, extension, research, credit) for crop production.
It is in the context of (a)(b) and (c) above that the GOI has sought
assistance from donor agencies (World Bank, OECF, EEC, FAO and GTZ) for
developing a seed industry in the public sector.
2.02. The two operations the Bank has so far financed in the realm of
seeds production, the Seeds Project (Seeds I; Credit 246-IND), which was
implemented during 1971-78, and the Second Seeds Project (Seeds II;
Loan 2066-IND), which is the subject of this PCR, were both geared to
supporting GOI objectives in the foodcrops sub-sector. Seeds I was
implemented at a time when the country was experiencing rapid expansion of
areas planted with HYVs, the farmers were increasingly in quest of such
seeds, and yet the physical facilities and institutional arrangements in
the public sector for the production and distribution of improved seeds
were only in rudimentary stages. Seeds II was implemented at a time when
the basic infrastructure for a public sector seeds production and
distribution programme had been put in place but there still were the
needs for: (i) making the national level institutions operationally
efficient and effective; (ii) expanding physical infrastructure to areas



outside of Java; (iii) fostering growth of seed industry outside the
public sector, and for (iv) diversifying the seeds production base. From
the above considerations, both the projects were timely and relevant to
the developmental needs of the time, and the Second Seeds Project was a
logical follow-up of the Bank-financed first operation.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.01. The overall objectives of the project were to increase the domestic
p-oduction of foodcrops and raise the incomes of the small farmers by: (a)
inmproving the quality, reliability and availability of rice and palawija
(secondary food crop) seeds; (b) strengthening National Seeds Cirporation
(NSC), PT. Pertani, the Seed Control and Certification Services (SCCS),
anA selerted cooperatives and Provincial Seed Farms (PSFs); and (c)
prcv~.oi;. incentives for larger private sector role in the seed industry.
3.02. The~ project components, as appraised, included the following
(Share of 'base costs in parenthesis):
(a) construction of about 18 new medium-sized seed processing
centers (9 for NSC, 6 for PT. Pertani and 3 for either central
cooperatives or NSC); 6 new small centers for village
cDoperatives; and additional equipment for about 10 existing
canters owned by NSC and the East Java Provincial Agricultural
Sarvice; (46%)
(b) incremental working capital for NSC, PT. Pertani, cooperatives,
and PSFs, to finance operating expenses until the sale of seed;
(20%)
(c) vehicles for all implementing agencies; (8%)
(d) irrigation/drainage improvements, storage, and other civil works
for about 40 PSFs, zhich would produce foundation (FS) and stock
seeds (SS); (7%)
(e) technical assistance comprising consultants in management,
finance, training, seed marketing, production, processing; (6%)
(f) studies on: (i) seed marketing and distribution; (ii) the
benefits from improved seed; (iii) seed treatment; (iv) site
selection for seed production and processing; and (v) the
po:ential private and cooperative sector roles in seed
processing, plus pilot activities arising from this study; (4%)
(g) facilities and operating expenses for establishing a diploma
course in seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute
(IPB), plus additional in-service training for staff of the
various implementing agencies; (4%)



(h) equipment and incremental operating expenses for SCCS for
certification/regulation of project seed; (2%)
(i) incremental operating expenses of FCRIs for supervision of
foundation seed (FS) production. and of Provincial Agriculture
Services for supervision of PSFs and private growers; (2%)
(j) construction of air-conditioned long-term storage for breeder
seed (BS) at five Food Crop Research Institutes (FCRI); (1%)
3.03. Project support for strengthening SCCS and PSFs was to have a
nation wide focus but the largest project component, construction of new
Seed Processing Centers (SPCs), was to be implemented in twelve provinces,
accounting for about 90% of the country's rice and secondary foodcrops'
production.
3.04. Total project costs were estimated at US$50.0 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$17.3 million (35%). The Bank loan of
US$ 15.0 million was to finance 30% of total project costs with GOI and
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) providing the remaining 59% and 11%,
respectively.
4.  Proiect Design and Organization
4.01. Pro'ect Design. The project was designed to extend the geok_aphic
and crop coverage as well as to consolidate the activities initiated under
Seeds I. 'lotwithstanding a number of differences, the Indonesian seed
projects uire basically modelled after the Bank supported Seeds projects
in India (rarai Seeds, Seeds I and Seeds IT) with the main thrust on the
expansion of public sector capacities for: (i) rapid multiplication of
already tested germ-plasms; (ii) large-scale nrocessing of seeds produced
through contract grower schemes; and (iii) stricter quality control.
Likewise, investment proposals were based on: (a) theoretical estimates of
demand for certified seeds by farmers; (b) perceived need for periodic
replacement of farmers' seeds with certified seeds in order to maintain
genetic purity; and (c) relatively sophisticated and capital intensive
technology for seed processing.
4.02. The main weaknesses in the conceptual framework and project design
were as follows: first, infrastructure development should have focussed on
creation of regional centers for seed production and distribution instead
of achieving provincial self-sufficiency; second, too great an emphasis
was placed on centralized production of certified seeds and not on
promoting production of good quality seeds by small farmers/farmer groups;
third, infrastructure development was based on high annual replacement
rates that had no relevance to actual farmer demand; fourth, it promoted a
highly-capital intensive seed processing technology that should be
considered inappropriate given that profit margins from processing high-



bulk self-pollinated seeds are traditiornally low, and seeds of the
requisite quality could be obtained through using less sophisticated and
less expensive processing technology; and last, it did not pay sufficient
attention to improving the production of FS and SS by govermnent farms,
and to on-farm production, retention and exchange (sales) of seeds by
farmers.
4.03. In retrospect, it would appear that, coming on the heels of over
ton years of Bank's experience with seed projects in India and Indonesia,
the project design and its conceptual foundation could have been more
innovative, rather than replicative. Instead of concentrating on
developing public sector infrastrtcture for meeting questionable seed
production targets, it should have focussed more on: (i) strengthening
support services for production, retention and exchange/sales of good
'eeds by farmers; (ii) creating the right environment for increased
private sector participation in seed business, and (iii) strengthening
GOI's capability for technical and financial a3sistance to private sector
enterprises; quality control services; varietal development (particularly
for palawija crops); and production and distribution of newly released
varieties and other seeds/planting materials which farmers cannot produce
themselves easily (e.g. hybrids, vegetables, fodder crops, horticulture
crops etc).
4.04. Project Organization. The project was implemented under the
overall supervision, coordination and monitoring of the Director of
Production Development in the Directorate General of Food Crops
Agriculture (DGFCA). He was supported by a Project Secretariat headed by
a full-time Project 3ecretary. Implementation of the individual
components/activities were by the NSC, PT. Pertani and Department of
Cooperatives. No special coordinating or overviewing committees, or
implementing agencies outside the existing GOI institutional structure and
operational procedures were created. This was an unique feature of the
project. Although during the initial years there were considerable
management and coordination problems, the situation gradually improved and
the project organization worked quite satisfactorily during the later
years. Project organization, however, did not pay attention to achieving
greater in raction between public sector and private sector operations.
5.  Project Imvlementation
5.01. The project had a slow start-up, and implementation during the
first two years (following Board Presentation) was substantially behind
sc.edule. Disbursements were less than 10% of estimates and Bank
supervision missions became apprehensive of GOI's commitment to the
project as well as the project's relevance to real needs. The key
constraints were managerial (delays in staffing and effective operation of
the project secretariat, employment of long-term consultants, and in the
review and approval of procurement documents; difficulties in coordinating



implementation by eight agencias under three different ministries; and
lack of experience among project staff on Bank operations and proceoures),
logistical (lack of vehicles for implementing agencies), financial (lack
of funding in the budget for ths first fiscal year of implementation,
delays in release of funds, shortage of operating funds for NSC) and
technical (inadequate technical expertise among project staff).  Following
these initial years of "confused approach by the GOI" things, however,
improved progressively and implemetutation was able to make up for most of
the lost time. At loan closing, most of the physical targets for the
various components had been achieved (Part III, Tablc 4). Final project
costs were US$ 38.09 m (Part III, Table SA), some 25% lower than appraisal
estimates due primarily to depreciation of the Indonesian rupiah during
the period of project implementation and shortfalls in GOI commitment for
vehicle procurement.
5.02. Shortages of vehicles seriously hampered the quality and coverage
of field operations, particularly of the SCCS staff. The SCCS staff often
had to depend on customer assistance for logistic support, which is not
conducive to objective and untiased inspection and quality control
services. Bank staff and senior management took up this matter with high
level GOI officials, including Ministers, but without much success.
5.03. Major reallocations in the categories and percentages of Bank
financing were made: first, in February 1985 in order to include funding
for new civil works for Provincial Seed Farms and IPB classrooms, and to
cover the subsLantial increases in the import price of the SPC equipments;
and for a second time in July 1987, in order to reduce GOI share of local
cost funding in view of general. resource constraints (Part III, Tanle C).
These reallocations permitted the completion of the key component of SPC
construction as stipulated in the SAR. However, one could also argue that
given the mounting evidences against the economic and operational
viability of these infrastructures, Bank and GOI should have seized upon
the opportunity and re-evaluated the component instead of focusing on
achieving the relevant SAR targets.
5.04. The palawija seeds production did not receive the focus that was
intended at appraisal. This was so because Indonesian policy-makers are
still predominantly oriented towards rice self-sufficiency objectives,
parent stocks for palawija crops are limited and storage problem of
palawija seeds are yet to be resolved.
5.05. There was another important area where actual project
implementation diverged from what was planned. A high degree of
interdependancy between this project and four other Bank financed projects
- two tc assist agricultural research development for breeding and testing
new varieties, and two others to assist agricultural extension - had been
envisaged at appraisal. But the required linkages were not achieved
because the project's implementation arrangements did not include rhe
specifics of such linkages, nor were such linkages treated as a priority
issue during actual implementation.



6.  Project Results
6.01. The project has achieved the physical targets for infrastructure
development, training, and project/sector related studies. It has created
a modern seed processing infrastructure in the public and semi-public
sectors that has the potential for producing some 42,000 tons of processed
seeds annually. It has provided training to a large number of public
sector officials involved in the various levels of activities in the seed
business, including in-service training to field staff (1,450), diploma
training to mid-level staff (72) and post-graduate training (4) and short
courses (12) to senior professionals. It has created the nucleus of a
nationwide seed certification and control service, a training
infrastructure in Seed technology, strengthened the financial management
of the PT. Pertani (see Annex 1, section II) and the NSC, and improved the
project planning, implementation and monitoring capability of the
Directorate of Food Crops. NSC was able to produce some 39,000 tons of
seeds in 1988 compared to some 5,000-6,000 tons in 1979/80, and for the
first time in its history it had an unqualified audit report for FY88/89.
6.02. At project completion total output of certified seeds from project
financed SrCs were about 16,500 tons, some 60% of the appraisal estimates
of project output. NSC's production of 14,000 tons represented about 65%,
PT. Pertani's production of 1,800 tons represented some 13% of the plant
capacities installed under the project. Total palawija seeds production
was a mere 6% of estimated project production. The project also did not
have much success in promoting greater private sector participation in the
seed industry, nor in getting an effective participiation of the
cooperatives in seed business. Similarly, improvements in the physical
facilities in the 40 PSEs do not appear to have had the full impact
because adequate budgets for their operations are not being made available
by the GOI.
6.03. Clearly, while the physical targets for infrastructure development
have been achieved, the sustainability of the operation is open to
question. Without substantial increases in the price of seeds (which is
currently subsidized), and/or reduction in operating costs (which are
substantially higher than selling prices for seeds) or writing-off of the
capital investments, the highly capital-intensive and heavy overhead
oriented public sector SPCs are likely to be non-profitable operations.
Some of the SPCs, particularly those outside Java, also face limited
demand for certified seeds and hence can not utilize the facilities to
their full rated capacities. This perhaps shows that farmers' dependance
on certified seeds of self-pollinated crops is not as strong as it in
thought to be.
6.04. Economic Rate of Return. The economic rate of return estimated at
project completior is 20.3% (Scenario 1), and 24.6% (Scenario 2) compared
to the appraisal estimate of 39%. The underlying assumptions were: (i)
80% capacity utilisation at the SPCs, beginning 1995; (ii) 5% annual
increase in NSC/PT. Pertani seed production cost (Scenario I); and



(iii) no increases in production costs of NSC/PT Pertani beginning 1990
(Scenario II). Details in Annex 2. The rate of return is loder than
original estimates mainly because of: (i) smaller quantity of total seeds
produced by the project; and (ii) major shortfalls in the production of
the seeds of higher value palawija crops.
7. Project Sustainability
7.01. Public Sector Production and Marketing. The project has built up a
public sector seed production and distribution system that is grossly
underutilized, heavily dependant on budget subsidy and is not as cost-
efficient as the private se-tor entities. During 1988 total subsidies to
NSC alone was Rp.8.4 billion, compared with Rp.3.0 billion in 1984.
Currently only about 50%-60% of the total costs of processing and
distriburing seeds is recovered by NSC from seed sales. Given the
political difficulties of raising seed prices, it is unlikely that full
costs of public sector operation could be recovered by price escalation.
The financial and economic sustainability of the public sector operations
will, therefore, depend largely on how successfully measures to achieve
more cost-effective production systems are instituted, and an optimum mix
of public and private sector participation in the various components of
the seeds production and distribution system is achieved.
7.02. Sustainabilitv of SCCS. The value of seed certification and seed
control services are now broadly recognized and well institutionalized.
However, SCCS operates under chronic budgetary constraints and transport
shortages. The role of the SCCS will grow in importance, especially in
respect of seed control because of the large number of small private
producers and growers. C7.early, its sustainability as an effective
instrument for regulatory/quality control functions will require that SCCS
becomes a largely self-financing autonomous institution in the longer-
term. Introduction of a level of fees that will cover at least the
operating costs and depreciation of vehicles and equipment would be the
first step in that direction. The recently introduced fees
(Rp 1,500 per ha of certification, Rp '/kg for laboratory tests) are
inadequate.
7.03. Sustainability of the private sector operations. The small private
sector seed industry that is thriving in competition with the public
se2tor has the potential for becoming the core of a progressive seed
industry provided the government would, inter alia: (a) focus public
sector operations on the service (policy formulation, advisory services,
varietal develoDment) and regulatory functions (seed certification and
control) and reduce its involvement in the business functions (production,
processing and marketing of ES and SS); (b) quickly phase-out subsidies
on seeds (also see para 9.01); (c) ensure easier access to short-term
working capital by private seed growers; and (d) make legislations
granting breeders' rights.



-8-
8. Bank Performance
8.01. Bank's performance has been mixed. It was correct in supporting a
follow-on phase for its First Seeds project, but in determining the scope
and content of the second project (Seeds II) the Bank was guided by a
conceptual framework that appear to have been inappropriate for the long-
term development of an efficient seed industry in the country
(Paras 4.02-4.04). Bank appraisal did not appreciate the growing role of
the private sector seeds operations, particularly in East Java, and did
not analyse the implications of seed demand estimates based on the
theoretical replacement rates (see Annex 1). The thrust of the key
components was also inconsistent with an important GOI and project
objec2ive - providing incentives for a larger private sector role in seed
production and processing. The Bank did not appreciate that by building
up a large public sector seed industry through GOI equity support and
subsidies, an emerging private sector was being disadvantaged. Removal of
government subsidies on seeds was designed to be a key project
intervention for encouraging private sector participation. But it was
unrealistic on the part of the Bank to have assumed that the government
would have removed subsidies on seeds in isolation from its overall input
subsidy policies. Finally, given GOI's budgetary constraints and the
centralized procurement administration, the Bank was overoptimistic in
assuming that GOI would provide the large number of vehicles required for
the project in a timely fashion.
8.02. A total of 109 staff weeks were devoted to supervision which was
not in excess of what is required to supervise a project of this nature.
In addition to Bank's own staff, short-term consultants were also retained
for analyzing the operational, institutional and financial issues relevant
to public sector operations. Bank supervision, both in quality and
frequency, was satisfactory. Key implementation issues were pointed out
and followed-up at the appropriate levels of the GOI. The Bank was
appropriately tough in dealing with implementation delays and its
interventions prevented irregularities and costly delays in respect of
some key procurements. But the most important aspect of the Bank's
supervision in the later years of the project was its explicit focus on
the questionable development impact of the project, and on the key
policy/sub-sector development issues. Although the Bank was unable to
reach agreement with GOI on what were largely policy issues, these
discussions nonetheless helped raise GOI's awareness of the key sub-sector
development issues. The Bank's decision not to support further operations
in the seeds sub-sector in the absence of agreement with GOI on these key
issues was an appropriate one.
8.03. The main lessons learnt from the implementation of the project are
as follows: (a) in planning seed industry development, the importance of
on-farm production, retention and farmer-to-farmer exchange of seeds,
particularly for self-pollinated crops, should be appropriately
recognized; (b) agronomic rationale and the operational implications for



replacing farmers' seeds with certified seeds at periodic intervals need
careful continuous evaluation; (c) a vigorous varietal breeding programme
resulting in releases of superior genetic quality is fundamental to the
sustainability of the seed industry; (d) overly sophisticated seed
processing technology is not necessary for producing seeds of the required
quality; nor should seeds be processed to a higher standard than is
demanded by farmers; and (e) strong national institutions for policy
setting and quality control, and clear definition of the respective roles
of the public and private sectors in a national seed production and
distribution system are necessary for promoting efficient growth of the
seed industry as a whole.
9. Borrower's Performance and Proiect RelationshiDs
9.01. The implementing agencies have to be credited for completing the
project as appraised without any extension of the loan closing date.
This was achieved despite slow start-up and negligible progress during the
first two years. GOI's timely action in changing two key project
personnels (Project Director and Project Secretary) in the Directorate of
Food Crops Production Development during mid-1983 appear to have been a
key factor in improving project implementation. The Project Secretariate
provided good leadership, coordination and support to the implementing
agencies. Monitoring of project implementation, and progress reporting
were adequate.
9.02. The borrower's performance in a number of areas, however, fell
short of expectations. First, it was not able to fulfill its commitments
for providing the requisite number of vehicles to the project; second, it
was not able to take the required action to ensure timely commissioning
and proper operation of SPCs constructed for the KUDs and PUSKUD; third,
GOI was not pragmatic in agreeing to a removal of subsidies on seeds
produced in Java in the time stipulated at negotiations (article 4.08 a of
Loan Agreement)j/; fourth, it did not provide adequate resources to the
PSFs, and bring about the required improvement in their management, which
reduced the impact of project assistance for their upgrading; and fifth,
there were unusual delays in processing of contract documents and
procurement decisions, particularly with respect to the procurement of SPC
equipment.
/  Although GOI did not fully comply with the dated covenant for removal of
subsidies on seeds, it is following a policy for its gradual reduction.
For example 1985, sales price recovered only 50% of the NSC costs of seeds
production, in 1988/89 recovery was 65% and for 1994 nearly 80% cost
recovery has been proposed.



10 -
9.03. Bank's relationship with the implementing agencies and other
government agencies at all levels has been good and effective.
Supervision missions were supported very diligently, and all required
information were provided in a satisfactory matner.
10. Consulting Services
10.01. The Project Secretariat was supported by 166, and the IPB by 37
man-months ot expatriate consultants. Identification of T.A. requirements
were appropriate and performances of most the consultants were
satisfactory. However, it would appear that consultants' recommendations
were not always followed up with due diligence, seriousness, and
timeliness.
11. Project Documentation and Data
11.01 The SAR adequately described the project objectives, the
institutional arrangements for project implementation and the project
risks. However, it should have paid more attention to describing the
important operational linkages between this project and its cohorts
(Para 5.05), analyzing the implications of a high annual replacement of
farmers' seeds with certified seeds (Annex 1), highlighting the importance
of the growing private sector in seeds business and the impact of expanded
public sector on its development. No working papers were produced and the
SAR at times delved into unnecessary details on minor matters (e.g.
equipments will be connected by conveyor belts, sedan will be provided for
consultants, rice would be threshed and maize husked before precleaning,
storage facilities would be ventilated and seed lots stacked, etc). The
number of covenants (20) also appear to have been far too many.
11.02. The Project Secretariat and the implementing agencies have been
very cooperative in providing the data for the PCR and making arrangements
for the necessary field missions.



- 11 -
Part II. Project Review From The Borrower's Perspective
1. The Role of Seed Project on the Indonesian Agricultural
Pro-ram,
Agricultural development is considered as an integral
part of the National development in Indonesia . Within the
frame  work  of   the national  development,   t.ie  ultimate
objective of the agriculture development is to continously
increase   the income and  welfare of   the farmers, who are
.the rural people, through the increase of agricultural
production.
The Government initiated the Five Year Development Plan
where  the  development of the  agricultural sector received
a very  high  priority  within  the economic  developuent of
the country. The attainment of sufficient increases in food
was one of the main targets.
Since the agriculture sector was given the first priority,
the government policy has concentrated to increase the rice
production to sustain   the self sufficiency and to increase
the  palawija crops production to diversify *the  food  stuff
and to supply as raw materials to the industry .
In order to do above serious efforts in rehabilitation of
infrastructure agricultural extension, and in the distribution
of fertilizer, seeds, pesticides and credit extension were
initiated.
Numerous   factors  affect  the  succes  of  that   strategy
including the availability of good quality seed of improved
variety
Seed is considered as one of key factor to increase the
production and it is also a dynamic instrument for change and
it can  be used to achieve specific agricultural   production
objective.



- 12 -
The seed should be prepared to ensure that seed is delivered
to  the farmer at the right variety ,right time, in   enough
quantity with good quality level .
Therefore the Seed Programme should be established and
developed based upon the consideration of present situation
of Seed Industry .
In the 1960s, the Government of Indonesia started to work to
strengthen its seed program through the use of government
seed farms, in the provinces with the encouragement of groups
of seed growers mainly on rice seed production.
Steps were taken in the 1970s, and 1980s to further improve
ment of the seed programme among other thing through Seed I
and Seed II Project which under World Bank financial supported.
Seed Industry is a huge and complicated and entire complex
work of organization, institutions, individuals associated
with the seed programme.
The Seed Programme covered some aspects which linked and
depending  each  other,  interalia  variety  development   &
evaluation, seed multiplication, seed processing & storage,
seed distribution & marketing and seed quality control &
legislation.
Although the seed programme has been made in order to
to increase the production of seed,   significant  impact
largely has been limited to exellent, however there are
still  constraints and limitations to be solved
Seed II Project is considered  and initiated to strengthen
the existing Indonesia Seed Programme however GOI still
need more aid from the Bank to develop and improve Seed
Industry in Indonesia
2. Project Design and Organization
2.01. The Project was designed to extent the geographic and
crop coverage as well to consolidate the activities under
Seed I, covered some aspect of seed in the up to down-stream
under 3 (three) Ministries interalia Agriculture, Education
& Culture and Cooperative .



- 13 -
In general, the Indonesian Seed Project was basically modelled
after the Bank supported Seed I Project. with the main thrust
on the expansion of public sector capacities together with
the cooperatives activities for :
(i)   rapid multiplication of already released varieties
(ii)  large-scale  processing  of  seed  produced   through
contract grower schemes and
(iii) stricter quality control
Investment proposal based on :
(i)   the teoritical estimates of demand for certified seed
by area, season and variety ;
(ii)  perceived need for periodic replacement of farmers'
seed with certified seeds in order to maintain genetic
purety ; and
(iii) the reasonable capital and seed processing technology
2.02. The weaknesses in the conceptual frame work and
project design were as follows :
a. project mainly focussed to strengthen the infrastructure
on production and processing of seed, however there was
little attention paid on   the  seed  distribution   and
marketing aspect.
b. the allocation of budget is too great on emphasis on the
seed production side while other aspect as seed sources
security and seed campaign are not enough .
c. seed business is huge and very complex works and the
succes of the program is influenced by many factor as
technically and non-technically aspect that some of them
can be controlled or un-co-trolled .         These aspects
were not enough to be considered or studied during the
preparation of SAR, interalia :
i. too optimistic to decide the target of secondary crop
seed production .
ii. too optimistic on the role of private sector on seed
business.



- 14 -
iii.SPCs   located  in the transmigration areas  such  as
Riau , which are up-land farming area still have some
problem due to not enough demand of seed because
of the lack of rarming condition and transmigration
problem.
iv. There is still gap between the cost of production of
seed and reasonable seed price to be decided .
d.the budget share between loan and counter budget was not
balanced wich the share of rupiah as counter budget is to
big,   therefore   there   are   difficulties   during   the
implementation.
2.04. It is agreed, that Seed Project Design and it is
conceptual foundation as innovative rather than replicative,
however the replicative project is still having the possibi
lity done in the same area, where the seed demand is still
increases .
In order to develop the satisfactory of seed industry, some
aspect that should be considered interalia
a. the project should handle the whole aspect on seed
industry integratedly.
b. strengthening  and  developing  a  comprehensive   Seed
Campaign Programme mainly in the area where the infra
structure of seed production already established .
c. creating the right enviroment for increased private
sector participation in seed business in future by
strengthening  GOI's   capability   for   technical    and
financial   assitance to   private   sector   enterprises,
such as quality control services, varietal development
(particularly for secondary crop) and the production &
distribution of newly varieties and other seed planting
material, which farmer cannot produced themselves easily
e. the share of budget between loan and counter budget
should be set more reasonable so that the implementation
can be run smoothly.
f. using foreign and local consultants who should know the
local condition on the food crop seed and could give the
right  clear suggestion or recomendation   how  to  solve
the existing problem.



- 15 -
2.05. Project Organization.
(1).The  Project has been  implemented  under   the   overall
supervision, coordination and monitoring of Director of
Food Crop Production Development in the Directorate General
of Food Crop Agriculture (DGFCA) and daily activities
run by a Project Secretariat headed by full time Project
Secretary.
(2) Implementation of the individual components/activities
were by NSC, PT Pertani, Department of Cooperatives,
Bogor Agricultural Institut (IPB) and Agency for Food
Crops Research and Development.
In order in line with the directive   in  the  SAR & Loan
Agreement and Government Policy, a Steering Committee
is established, headed by Director General of Food Crops
Agriculture and the member are   each Director of Project
Component.
(3) Daily monitoring the progress of project implementation
is  coordinated  by  Project Secretariate ,  assisted  by
liasson officers of project component .
(4) The Project Organization is aimed to achieve target and
working schedule, however, time to time there are some
difficulties beyond their power .
(5) In general, the Project Organization is considered to work
succesfully to complete the physical target and disbursement-
of loan before ending of the project.
(6) The Project Director and Project Secretariate were
mainly work as service function (coordinator) and not
enough  power  to  control  of  the  implementation   of
project in  each  component under 3 (three) ministries
(7) During the implementation of project, many factors non-
technically beyond of power of project secretariate which
some time difficult to overcome interalia in the speeding
up   the  procurement  process,  phasing  out   of   seed
subsidies, setting seed prices etc .



- 16 -
3. Project ImDlementation
3.01.   The   Project   had   a   slow   start-up,   and
implementation   during   the   first   two   years   was
substantially   behind  the  schedule  due  to  of   some
constraint interalia the weaknesses on managerial    lack
of   logistical   supporting,   shortage   on   financial
supporting and technical matters.
Based on L/A and SAR Project will be initiated on Second
Semester 1982 but in fact just to be started in second
semester 1983 and completed by the end of December 1989 .
Following years project start to consolidate and run
progressively and the implementation was able to make up
for most of the lost time .
At loan closing time, all of physical target for the
various component had been achieved eventhough some of
them have slight change from the schedule .
Final project cost were US $ 38 million, some 24 %
lower   than  appraisal  estimates  due   primarily   to
depreciation of Indonesia Rupiah and shortfall in GOI
commitment for vehicle procurement .
3.02. Project was implemented based on the guide lines
of SAR and L/A, however world economic resession gave
influence . In order to effective usage of the loan the
project changed some- of concept two time during the
implementation such as categories and ration of loan as
the unders. The first change, in 1985 is to add funding
for new civil works for Provincial Seed Farms and IPB
classrooms,and to cover the substantial increases in the
import price of the SPC equiptments, and for a second to
reduce share of local cost financing in view of general
resources.
3.03. The up-land rice and palawija seeds production has
not been yet achieved to the target due to of some
reason interalia :



- Ii..
i.  these  crops  have specific charateristics like need
of special treatment to storage, low multiplication
ratio, uncertainty in of planting time, and not
enough amount of parent stock.
ii. the actual demand of palawija seeds were not high
because the farmers as user of seeds have not enough
knowledge on seed .
3.04. Concerning with interdependancy between this project
and  four  other  Bank  financed  projects  to    assist
agricultural   research  development  for  breeding   and
testing   new  varieties,  and  two  others   to   assist
agricultural extension had not clearly linkages due to
that each project was run individually and in the SAR was
not mentioned the specific linkages clearly
4. Proiect Results
4.01. The Project already completed due in time and can
strengthen the foundation of Indonesian Seed Industry .
The Project has achieved the physical targets for
infrastructure developme-.t, training, and project/sector
related studies except for rehabilitation of some SPCs of
DPD
It  has created a modern  seed processing  infrastructure
in  the public and semipublic sectors that has  potential
for producing some 40.000 ton of processed seed annually.
It  has  provided training to a large  number  of  public
sector officials involved in the various levels of
activities  in the seed industri,  including   in-service
training to field staff (1450), diploma training to mid-
level staff (72) and post-graduate training (4) and
short courses(12) to senior professionals.
It   has  created  the  nucleus  of  nation  wide   seed
certification    and   control   service,   a    training
infrastructure  in  Seed Technology,   strengthened   the
financial   management  of the PT. Pertani and  the  NSC,



- 18 -
and improved the project planning, implementation and
monitoring capability of the Directorate General of Food
Crops.
4.02.  At  project  completion  time,   total  output  of
certified  seed  from project financed  SPCs  were  about
18.281 tons below the estimated target. NSC's production
of  16.414 tons represented some  71.37 % of   the  plant
capacities (23.000 tons),  PT. Pertani's  production   of
1.815   ton  represented  some  12.95  X  of  the   plant
capacities   installed  (14.000  tons),    whereas    for
Cooperatives   just 66 ton  or 2 % of  total   capacities
(3.200 ton).
Seed have been produced mainly on rice seed while
palawija seed was still low enough around 1.213 tons
The improvements in the physical facilities in the 38
PSFs have already overcame the problem on requirement of
the  room  space  for  installment  of   seed  processing
equiptment   which supply from Japan as Grant Aid and  it
may agreed that it do not appear  to have had  the   full
impact because adequate budget for their operations are
not being made available by the GOI.
However PSFs is still operated with the limited budget
and it is still can prepare the Seed Sources (FS & SS)
mainly to keep pace the local requirement .
In some provinces beside from the Central Government the
operational cost is still assisted from local government
in order to PSF to operate effectively .
4.03. Eventhough the infrastructure for the SPCs has
already completed for the sustainability of the operation
it   is   needed   some  improvement   on   some   aspect
(tecchnically or non-technically) in order the program can
be funcitioned as planined and it need some time to reach
the target



- 19 -
5.   Project Sustainability
5.01 Public Sector Production and Marketing.
The SPC's has been operted, 7 of SPCs by 1985, 3 of SPCs by
1987, 7 of SPCs by 1988, 4 of SPCs by 1989 and 5 of SPCs by
1990, therefore the operations were not fully active, yet
the subsidy for production oost per kg reduced year by year
though total subsidy has increased because increasing of of
the seed to be marketed .
Some of public SPCs located at under-developing area, hardly
work at full capacity because :
(1) not enough seed sources by varieties
(2) actual demand of seed is not reached to the SPCs
capacities.
During 1985, total subsidies to NSC alone was Pp. 8,4
billion, compared with Rp. 3,0 billion 1984 due to amount of
seed marketed raised sharply, but subsidies per kg of seed
has been already reduced. Effort to reduce the subsidies is
still continously being taken by :
1.   Reducing cost of production through.
a. Increasing the quality of uncleaned seed procured to
get the high rendement of seed by providing contract
seed grower some post harvest equipments as thresher
b. Using sun drying as much as possible for drying of
seed.
c. Raising drying capacities by-modifying bag drier to
box drier.
d. Using public electric ( PLN ) to process small quan-
tity uncleaned seed.
2.   Raising the production capacity of SPC.
3.   Maximize the amount of uncleaned seed to be procured at
the peak harvest time where the price of seed in the
lowest level.
4.   Increasing the volume of seed to be marketed.
Subsidies for seed need to pay for a certain years, however
public SPCs should reduce the cost of production and
increase the amount of production up to its maximum



- 20 -
The lnvel of farmer's perception discrepancies among t e
area and it is necessary to convince them and take the time
and   special  seed  campaign  which  operates   through   a
comprehensive set of interlingking activities.
A viable seed campaign requires time to develop and needs
the blending of a efforts by public and private sector
enterprises.
There is the way to reduce the subsidy by raising the
selling price of seed and to increase actual demand of seed,
however goverment duties is to campaign to get farmers
understand on the price of seeds
5.02 Sustainability of SCCS.
The Goverment believe the fee of SCCS (Rp. 1500 per ha of
certification, Rp 2 per kg for labor&tory tests) are
adequate  at this time but not enough to c,8vew all  of  cost
for SCCS operation, however we need time t!. let user of SCCS
to understanding the importance of their a_ti.vities, then we
will   increase  the  fee  according  to  t..hexr  degree   of
understanding in the futtre . According to the regulation
there  is no possibility tt, use the budget a, ectly for  the
SCCS operational.
5.03 Sustainability of the private sector opet',ion.
The Goverment has the policy that seed industry in Indonesia
should be handed over gradually from govermert or semi-
goverment organization to private sector in the futuTe,
however Goverment should create the situation ancG conditions
that the private sector seed industry can operate without
any problem.
To do so the step to be taken are
(1).  phase-out subsidies gradually by means of increase  ES
price and reduction of seeding amount per unit area.
(2).  securing seed sources .
(3).  improvement of activities of SCCS
(4).  campaign to the interested parties including  farmers
as seed user to understand the facts on seed



- 21 -
6.   Findings and Lessons Learned
6.01 We already confirms that our seed programme is consist
of (1). variety development & evaluation, (2). seed multi
plication,(3). seed processing & storage, (4). seed distri
bution & marketing and (5).seed quality control &
legislation, though those are depending upon and linked each
other .
In Seed II Project, since main concept in to established SPCs
to increase the capacities of seed porduction, so we realized
that the areas for seed sources security and improvement of
seed distribution -and  marketing  were   not   given   enough
consideration.
The farmer should be educated and motivate particularly for
subsistence farmers. Therefore as key factor to solve   this
problem Seed Campaign would be initiated.and developed.
The merits of good quality seed should be recognized, not
only by the farmers but also by local government officials and
extension workers.
6.02 Project also a little to pay attention in handling on
variety evaluation and release of palawija crops, so that
the availability Seed sources as Breeder, Foundation Seed is
still limited which influenced the seed flow and it is not
attained as the planned.
We should care much more than before on the Crop research
especially related to improve the quality of seed.
6.03 Seed is a live embodiement and as a dynamic instrument
for change and it can be used to achieve specific
agricultural production objectives. Therefore it should be
handled by special treatment.
So that, seed producers should have the knowledge, skilled,
good management & organization and supporting working
capital in handling on seed production and distribution.
There is some example  that the  SPC   under  Cooperative
management could not run smoothly because the above SPCs had
no reliable seed producers .



- 22 -
6.04. Due to seed can improve the agricultural productivity,
there fore to succed the programme, it is necessary
that the quality of the seed are in the highest possible
standard and also to ensure that is delivered to the farmers
at the right time quantity and quality.
Therefore the quality of seed is necessary to be monitored
and controlled whether it is in the right or true variety &
genetic, good physical, good physiology during production,
distribution and marketing handling and it can be controlled
by giving them labelled on each package of seed.
Seed is also a dynamic instrument for change and it can be
used to achieve specific agricultural production objectives,
ie to increase and sustaining of food crops production. So
as much as posibble seed should be certified and produced in
a good controlled and exchange of seed among farmers as much
as possible to be reduced particularly for rice crop in
order to combat and control of pest a-nd diseases a attack.
However in a way we accept the Interfield distribution
system (Jalinan Benih Antar Lapang) because seed of secondary
crop especially legume crop has short life .
6.05. The palawija ksecondary crop) having a specific
characteristic and rather difficult to handle, therefore it
should be needed more attention and supporting from the
government particularly on variety development, production
and distribution of newly released varieties.
6.06. Though the operation of SPCs have the important role -
to the agricultural development in the area, it needs some
time to operate in full capacities because there are
certain conditions to be fulfill such as the training of
seed growers nearby, securing seed sources (with proper
varieties, right amount ) and buyers
6.07   Monitoring and  controlling  the  progress  of   seed
production and distribution in Indonesia should be fully
under responsibility of Directorate General of Food Crop
Agriculture.
However Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture had
some difficulty to obtain the progress report from SPCs
constructed under the Seed II scheme and operated by the
Cooperatives, due to the administrative jurisdiction



- 23 -
7. Bank Performance
7.01.   The  Bank  worked  based  on  the  directive  and
guideline in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and Loan
Agreement (L/A) during monitoring of implementation of
project .
7.02.   The Bank always conducting regularly supervision  to
monitor the progress of project implementation and provided
guidance directly in field or written guidance to the
project in order the project can run in line with directive
in the SAR and L/A .
The Bank was quite aware on the constraint and problem which
project faced during the implementation and provided ways
out and if necessary it was also submitted to the high
relevant authorities to clear the problem where it was
beyond of power of project
7.03. The Bank was appropriately touch in dealing with the
implelemtation   delays  and  its   intervention   preverted
irregularities and costly delays in respect of some key
procurements.
7.04.   The  Bank  was  also very  active  conducting  field
visiting and made field finding reports during supervision
and its very useful for the project as tool to manage in the
implementation of project.
7.05.    The  Bank was also aware on the  sustainability  of
operation the project by sent some consultants to the field
conducting  some  study  and  survey  concerning  with   the
operation,    organization,    management,    institutional,
financial aspect of whole project either on public or
private, sector view .
7.06.     The Bank was enough flexible to fulfil on some  of
GOI's request for running of project among other thing were
the reallocation of categories and budgetting sharing but
rather stiff on the achievement of some convenants and
project's target, where they were having difficulties to
attain due to the technical and non-technical condition
which was not enough considered during the SAR made



- 24 -
8. Borrower's performance
8.01.  In   the  implementation   of  the  project,  Project
Organization   always follow the L/A, SAR and  the  existing
the Bank's and GOI regulation.   In running the project ,GOI
effort to improve the project management from time to time,
by providing project secretariate and component's office the
high qualification staffing. GOI was very satisfied by
completing the project in time and appreciated to all of the
project   staff  who  already  work  hard  and  give   their
assistance during the implemetation of this project.
8.02. However GOI was not able to fulfill some commitments
with the Bank which already mentioned in the SAR i.e:
a.  despite  of the  borrower  estimations  of  number  of
veh!cles needed to its project the borrower could
pr fide the vehicles only to the most important field
b.  operaticnal  budget  for PSF's are not  being available
however in certain PSF's still can operated with
limited   budget   and   some  of  them  still  getting
supporting from local government.
Due to seed bussines were developed rapidly, so that the
funds were always not enough -
c.  Delaying in the procurement of SPC's equipment, raise up
because  there was of %orld economic  resession,   which
the succesfull bidder did not accept the price of
contract in US dollar, due to the exchange rate of
international  currency were not stable,  therefore  the
tender sould be re-evaluated and its process took time
and a long according to the existing Indonesian's
regulation,   however  the establishment  of  the  SPC's
could be set up before the closing date of the project.
d. GOI  can not able to operate the cooperative  SPC's  in
full    capacity at the proper time, as mention the  SAR
In  fact the Directorate General of   Cooperative    did
not pay full attention to handle       this  project   and
KUD    as    processor   were    still           lack    of
managerial,      skilled,  staffing  and  fail   to   get
credit  from  BRI  . However,  they  will  improve  the
situation  by conducting of on the Job training  in  the
SPC of NSC or other producers.



- 25 -
e. Currently the GOI is still can not remove the seed
subsidies drastically . However, the subsidies is still
provided to maintain the self sufficiency in rice but
the goverment is still aware that subsidies in future
time should be phase-out
9. Consulting Services
9.01. DGFCA as the executing agency has been assisted by
various expert to make the Project implementation smooth in
technical, financial, management aspect and specially in
operational of SPC's and other facilieties .
9.02. In general the consultant posses good qualification
in line with the guideline in the SAR, and in generally the
consultant provided satisfied performance services to the
Project  interalia :  in  the  preparation  of   technical
specification of SPC's equipment, improvement of accounting
system for NSC and PT. Pertani, technical guideline on the
operational  of  SPC's, improvement Project  management   and
training program.
9.03.   They   also  provided   many   recomendations   and
suggestions to the Project, however some of them were not
suitable and could not be implemented, due to the under-
mentioned reasons;
(1).  some  of  them were so principal  that  it  could  not
applicable.
(2).  some of the were not suitable to apply  because  they
came  from mis-understanding and not enough  knowledge
on the situation.
(3).  some of them were given but not in right time , data
not  complete,  cohtradictive  with  the  policy   and
regulation, the time was not appropriate
9.04.  The  Consultant  could  not  provided  tne   perfect
guidelines on seed marketing which produce by SPC's and also
how to reach the target in the SAR.
9.05.  The  Consultant  for seed production gave  us  poor
information and guidance because he was not expert for his
line but in the  seed quality control



- 26 -
9.06. The Consultant who appointed by the World Bank (for
financial  analysis,  management  and   organisation   ) on
Indonesian Seed Industry gave us some the recommendation
which were not reliable because their periods to stay in
Indonesia for study the situation were not long enough
9.07. Some of consultant provided useless recommendation and
suggestions because of the lack of knowledge on the current
seed situation in Indonesia.



- 27 -
PART m
Table 1: Relaled Bank Loan
Low Nd           Puypo                 Year of                 Sta"                    CAMsAts
Projec Tide                              Apprval
1. Cr 246-IND    Creaing a                  1971                  Coinpleted
Sads - I       modern seeds
industry in
hndonesia
Table 2: Project Timetable
Dat                   DatA                   Dae
Dacriptio             m _ RiveddAc
kmtficAtion
(Projec Brief)         May 1978                                     May 1978
Preparation               Mar 1979                                      Mar 1979
Appaisal Mission          Mar 1980                                     Mar 1980
LAnn Negotiations         Jul 1981                                     Jul 1981
Board Approval            Dec 1981                                      Dec 1981
Loan Signature            Jan 1982                                     Jan 1982
Loan Effectiveness        Mar 1982                                      Mar 1982
Loan Closing              Jun 1989                                     Jun 1989
Project Completion        Dec 198                                      Dec 19U8
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
Cumnatn  EsEtimed       Acbal Disburs
USS'OOO
Docrtion            FY82       FY83        FY84      FY85         FY86        FY87       FYU8         FY89    FY90
Appraisl Es;imate        200.0    2,000.0    4,200.0    6,700.0       9,200.0   11,700.0   14,000.0  15,000.0  15,000.0
Actual                     0.0      155.2       705.5    4,572.2      5,978.1    8,522.8   12,949.2  14,459.2  14,965.2
Acal as %age,
of ESimate                 0.0        7.8        16.8       68.2         65.0        72.8       92.5       96.4      99.8
Date of Finl Disburmaent: January 3, 1990



- 28 -
Table 4: Project Implementation
Key Indicat               Unit        Appraial       Revision            Actual
Estimbte   IJuly 1987         At Comption
A. Civil WO1}
Sees Procesing Centers
Medium Size            No              18            18                 18
Small Size             No               6             6                  6
Rehabilitation         No              10             2                  2
Rehabilitation of BBI/BBU    No           40            38                 38
IPB Clsroom               No               1              1                 1
B.      Ui
Seeds Processing Centers
Medium size            No              18            18                 18
Small size             No               6             6                  6
Rehabilitation         No               2              2                 2
Goneral usage          No              65            27                 27
Additional             No              44            44                 44
Teaching equipment        No               1              1                 1
Laboratory equipment      No              11             11                11
Breeder seed storage      No               5              5                 5
n-service training        Person         860          1450               1450
Diploma course            Person           3            72                 72
Overseas training/study tours  Person     16             16                16
Stuies                    No              10             10                10
Pilot activities          No               4              2                 2
Technical assistance      Man-month    250             198                198
Vehicles                  No             530           197                197



- 29 -
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Ptolot CgOs
Appraisl Estimate                                 Actual
Local  Foreign   Total                         Loal  Foroein Total
Description          Coms   Exchang                                 Comb  Exchage
Cost                                          Cost
Investment
Breeder seed storage              0.1    0.1                            0.02    0.17   0.19
Provincial seed farms     1.6     0.6    2.2                            1.71    0.19   1.91
Seed processing centers  7.3      7.3   14.6                            8.16    7.90  16.06
Vehicles                  1.0     1.6   2.6                             0.18    0.43   0.61
Laboratory equipment              0.2    0.2                            0.03    0.1i   0.21
Training                  0.9     0.4    1.3                            0.95    0.37   1.31
Technical assistance      0.7     1.3    2.0                            1.87    0.10   1.96
Studies/pilot activities  0.7     0.6    1.3                            0.28    0.01   0.30
Sub--a!            12.2    12.1   24.3                           13.20    9.34  22.54
Inc. Operating Costs     0.9             0.9                            8.90    0.06   8.96
Inc. Worcing Capital      6.4            6.4                            6.59           6.59
Totall base costs        19.5    12.1   31.6                           28.69    9.40  38.09
Physical contingencies    1.2     1.2   2.4
Physical contingencies   12.0     4.0   16.0
Total projet costs       32.7    17.3  50.0                            28.69    9.40  38.09
B. Prolect Financing
(USS 00
Source                   Plnped   %                      Final     X
IBRD                     15,000    30                    14,965    39
DOMESTIC                 35,000    70                    23,124    61
of which: GOI          29,300     59                    NA       NA
BRI           5,700     11                    NA       NA
TOTAL                  50,000    100                   38,089    100



- 30 -
C. Allocati  of Bank Ln
Category                 Orginl        Ravisim I       Rision U       At Closing
November 84     July 87          (Fia)
1. CivL Wogb             2,S00          2,619            3,745          3,243
PSF                                    300             233             205
SPC                                   2,019           3,261          3,013
EPB                                    300             251              25
2.  _5,300                               8,6S0           3,158          8,048
3. TA & Sbvi5bs           ,300           3,450           3,097          3,670
4. Unallcatod             1,400           270
T 0 T A L              15,000          15,000          15,000         14,965



- 31 -
Table 6: Project Results
A. Direct Benefits /a
Estimated
Appraisal            Estimated at           at full
Indicator            Estimate             Closing Date         Development
Incremental Outputs
- Rice                   63,200 tons          65,831 tons          132,451 tons
- Maize                  24,300 tons              NE                    NE
- Soybean                 7,200 tons              NE                    NE
- Groundnut               5,300 tons              NE                    NE
- Mungbean                  900 tons              NE                    NE
Incremental Employment
- Agencies concerned    450 permanent jobs        NE                    NE
- Construction labor    6,000 man-years           NE                    NE
- Crop harvesting        4,000 full-time jobs    NE                     NE
Incremental Seed Production
- Paddy                  13,400 tons          16,700 tons          33,600 tons
- Palavija               14,000 tons             700 tons               NE
La See Annex 2 for assumptions.
NE - Not Estimated
B. Economic Rate of Return
Appraisal     Reestimated at Project Completion /a
Description              Estimate          Scenario 1        Scenario Z
Economic Rate of Return       39Z               20.3Z             24.6Z
/a See Annex 2 for assumptions.



- 32 -
C. Seed Production by NSC &  PT Pertani  1/
Desoription           1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992    1993    1994  1995-2905
Seed Pfoducio & Sales
- Productk
NSC                 2,840  6,44s  7,384 13,915 15,000 16,80   18,816  21,074  23,603  26,435    30,180
PT Portani            780  1,222    977  1,543  1,700  1,904   2,132   2,388   2,675   2,996       3,420
Total               3,620  7,667  8,361 15,458 16,700 18,704  20,948  23,462  26,278  29,431    33,600
- Sales                  3,258  6,900  7,525 13,912 15,030 16,334  18,854  21,116  23,650  26,488    30,240
Incremental Paddr Prodyctod
- Wetland                13,293 28,153 30,702 56,762 61,322 68,681  76,923  86,154  96,492 106,071   123,379
- Dryland                  977  2,070  2,257  4,174  4,509  5,050   5,656   6,33s   7,095   7,946       9,072
Total               14,270 30,223 32,9s9 60,93s 6S,31 73,731  82,79  92,488  103,587 116,017  132,451
1/ -  own 2 for aosuntions
D. Skidies
Purpose u definod                     Status             Impwt of Study
at appraisal
Seed Marketing and
Distribution                     Completed                    1/
Private & Cooperative
Sector Processing                Completed                    1/
Benefits from Seed
Quality                          Completed                    1/
Seed Treatment                      Completed                   1/
Site Selection                      Completed            Used for Location of SPCs
Pilot Activities                    Completed                   1/
Coammt: I  ao_w,nmfreviwing mdinuand r           eoms bdio 6w  no imaam   yt



- 33 -
Table 7: Record of CmpincWith Miaor Cogenant
AIL MB     A2                     ""own                         pu*  im ss
NWA P av4d bNW 4                         bo.omis
t~~~~wn D_~bdC D_
AIL S      CT                                                            WI u
LaSSOS  C.?  ~~~~~~~bepibd                      huu~FfPlWbesow
AIL SM  A.1.2  swItbbuma W _,__
Li                                             bebe  o d
uf dus          toas 
Li. S.U  LID    hUhpo mvuinama                 MySI U     h Mals
AL. &SM    1.3          qui2b AM"'s                     IssI  bes eampiula
A f 3      h      . d S                             hbmplo
b an yew Ish_
A&L 3.07  A.1.3  A   asul evm mod dsI                     h asupumso
!.,be i gops m  mpPsui   wt,
AIL 3.06  &I     UMOd0  t WVuk    f&AMW.,                 masqusac
bsh E pmvi                               qu3a  la
AuL S.0    &  P3.3NApajshmss.JSO                                 oampms"
tod busyo k  M
"a-of  -wsm ame
lobs                                      _ _i~
AILS                           : 3.  112_                           _k vw"bOMLO
ALaS 3.07   3.        MCb "O e "MM aea mi DIPDpm
- aduom PUP h admehi
MA iobsq ."                                   _
ALt SOS    3.3        Ums gos mh adavos Nodin emoplioss
Li. 3.0    3.3  ~~Pavds hjsst dfor  lal                   Pa*i oe.pSi
AML 4AD  CA     uo5sb om bsf.0inb eabobAe
Ait. 2.11  3   ~~Nod pksbqa,ft noin                               ita i
AL. 4.10   a          N  t imob"~ lo BUC Ia we                   ealomommes
s~~~~~I P..i __M ~- s.lush_ 
Li. 4.01  1.5  NEC bg qpabed     1111111                 h CompIulsin
_ 6bo      - _    v
MN bXi       bus                           _   d M
at.  an b1   , ush 
*- sox  al   ad_ser"                 4|.3-  moMX_"
bbs ...'  ae  _u  .
dpssjss   I  bs
_w   las. mii be
^lo ~~~~ld ad    l_        . PT P
^=212 ~    ~     ulsm   bs Mmmi



- 34 -
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of
Project Cycle                               Planned      Revised         Actual/a
Through appraisal                             N/A           N/A          196.4
Appraisal through Board                       N/A           N/A             6.8
Board through Effect.                         N/A           N/A           N/A
Supervision                                   N/A           N/A /b        95.7
/a  Project is supervised from RSI field office on a continuing basis.
/b This data is only available from FY88 onwards.
B. Missions
Performance
Stage of                 Month/   No. of   Days in   Special.   Rating    Type of
Project Cycle               Year    Persons   Field    Repres./a  Status/b  Problem/c
Through appraisal                03/80       4       N/A         N/A       N/A        N/A
Appraisal through Board          07/81      N/A      N/A         N/A       N/A        N/A
Board through Effective.         03/82     N/A       N/A         N/A       N/A        N/A
Supervisions
1st                            10/82       2        6        A,A         2/2        M,T,F
2nd                            07/83       2        5        A,A         2/3        M,T,F
3rd                            07/84       2        6        A,A         2/3        F,M,T
4th                            04/85       4       10        A,A,FA,A   2/2        M,O
5th                            10/85       2        3        A,A         2          N/A
6th                            07/86       2        8        A,A         2          N/A
7th                            09/87      2         6        E,A         2          N/A
8th                            07/88       2       N/A       FA          3          N/A
9th                            01/89       2        6        FA,A        2          N/A
NA = Data not available/applicable.
/a   Key to Specialization:  A=Agriculturalist; E-Economist; FA=Fin.ncial Analyst.
/b   Key to Status: l=No problem; 2-Minor problem; 3-Hajor problem.
/c   Key to Problems:  F-Financial; M-Kanagerial; T=Technical; O=Other.



- 35 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND SEEDS PROJECT (LOAN 2066-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. FINANCIAL and OPERATIONAL IMPLICATIONS OF THE PRESENT GOI
SEED REPLACEMENT POLICY
1.       Present GOI policy is to use certified seeds every year for Supra
Insus and Insus Packet D areas, and replace every third year in non-
intensification areas. Areas under the Supra-Insus and Insus D have been
projected to reach about 5.2 m ha in 1993, with another 5.9 m ha comprising
areas of under other intensification programmes (5.2 m ha), and non-
intensification areas (.7 m ha). Estimated Seed requirements per annum, as
per present GOI seeds policy, would be as follows:
a. Supra Insus/Insus Packet D             -     130,000 tons/year
(5.2 m ha x 25 kg) 100% replacement
b. Other areas                            -      50,000 tons/year
5.9 m ha (30% replacement)
2/3 Wetland @ 25/kg
1/3 Dryland @ 40/kg
180,000 tons/year
2.       Production of 180,000 tons of certified seeds will require at least
90,000 ha of seed growing areas, in addition to another 1500 ha for the
production of stock seeds. Public sector resources required for supervision,
certification and control of seed production on such a large area would be
enormous and expensive. The total cost of producing this quantity of seed
would be about Rp. 120-125 billion, and would involve Rp. 20-25 billion in
government subsidies to the public sector SPCs.
3.       Maintenance of genetic purity is believed to be the main basis on
which the 30% certified seed sales targets are based, on the contention that
after 3 years stock purity would sufficiently have deteriorated to warrant
replacement. This is presented to farmers as extension advise. For self-
pollinated crops, of which rice may be taken as the example since it is the
crop of overriding importance, it seems that too great a value is being placed
on certified seed. Apart from generation requirement, certification does not



- 36 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
do anything as such but merely acts as a guarantee of standards, which may
readily be exceeded in non-certified seeds with proper care including heavy
roguing, proper drying, dressing and storing. Consequently, the use of good
quality seeds could be substantially increased by having the extension service
concentrate on improving the quality of farmer kept seed, which would in any
event remain the major source of seeds for self-pollinated crops.
4.       One technique the extension service might consider would be the seed
plot technique, as it is towards this that the farmers tend to move if seed
prices increase. This would involve developing a programme whereby farmers
will buy a small quantity of certified seeds, the output from which would be
sufficient to cover his entire rice area in the following season. This seed
would then be grown in a separate plot, appropriately isolated to prevent
cross-pollination, severely rogued, and separately harvested, dried and stored
for use during t*he following season. Such a programme to be effective will
obviously need strong advisory and materials (improved storage bins, seed
cleaners/winnowers, chemicals for treatment etc) support by the extension
staff, but a successful seed plot technique can lead to vast cost savings
through reducing the requirements for BS, FS and SS, and yet provide an
adequate coverage by good quality seeds.
II. Improvements in the Accounting System and Audits of PT. Pertani.
5.       Audits.  The overdue audits noted during appraisal have been
completed. As of May 31, 1990, there are two overdue audit reports for the
years ended December 31, 1987 and 1988. The state auditor (BPKP) has
completed the drafts of the audit reports and it is estimated that the final
audit reports will be submitted to the Bank by the end of July 1990, for the
1987, 1988 audit reports whereas the 1989 audit report is scheduled to be
submitted to the Bank in September 1990.
6.       Reporting Procedure.  The reporting procedure (including the
preparation of financial statements) of PT. Pertani has been simplified, and
will be effective January 1, 1990, following a proposed reorganization of the
company. Under the old system, all branch offices (up to Kabupaten level)
throughout Indonesia (25) had to prepare their own financial statements which
then would be consolidated at the Headquarters. Consequently, the
consolidated financial statements could not be completed if there was a delay
in completion of financial statements of even a sinall branch office. Under
the new system, these branch offices are grouped into 7 geographical areas
(wilayah) and therefore there will be 7 separate financial statements which in
turn would be consolidated at the Headquarters.
7.       Training and Computerization.  To ensure that the new system will
work effectively the company is now conducting staff trainings in Jakarta. In
addition, the staff preparing financial statements will be equipped with
personal computer's as a first step of the company's long term computerization
program.



- 37 -
Annex 2
INDONES7'
Second Seeds Project (Loan 2066-IND)
Project Completion Report
AssumDtions Underlying Economic Analysis
1.    The primary economic benefit of the project is the value of incremental
paddy production arising from the use of seeds produced by the Seed Processing
Centers. The economic lifetime of the project was estimated to be 20 years
beginning 1986, the mid year of the project implementation period.
2.    As assumed in the SAR, most of the demand for project induced certified
seeds would be from the government's crop intensification programmes (BIMAS,
INMAS, INSUS, Supra-Insus etc). However, based on current trends in the
production and utilization of certified seeds for Paddy - the main project
output - it was assumed that at full development the aggregate utilization of
plant capacities at the Seed Processing Centers will average about 80%, and
that 90% of the produced seeds will actually be sold to farmers.
3.    Due to higher returns to paddy cultivation in the wetlands, inadequacies
in the technical packages for paddy cultivation under rainfed conditions, and
the government's continued emphasis on expansion of irrigated lands, it was
assumed that nearly 85% of the certified seeds would be used under irrigated
conditions, the remaining under rainfed conditions.
4.    At appraisal an average yield increase of about 4% due to use of
certified seeds had been assumed. Data on this continues to be
unsatisfactory. The study undertaken by the project has produced widely
varying estimates - from negative to 0.6 tons/ha - of incremental yields due
to the use of certified seeds. Most seed projects, however, use 3%-5% higher
yields due to varietal purity, vigorous growth and higher germination
resulting from the use of certified seeds. In reestimating ERR, it has been
assumed that use of certified seeds will increasi yields by about 3%
(i.e 120 kg/ha) under irrigated conditions and .6 (i.e. 100 kg/ha) under
rainfed conditions. Incremental output from each ton of certified seeds would
be 4.8 tons on irrigated lands (at a seeding rate of 25 kg/ha) and 2.0 tons on
rainfed lands (at a seeding rate of 50 kg/ha).
5.    Economic value of rice was estimated based on import parity price (1989
constant values) derived from World Bank commodity price projections.
Conversion factor of .85 was used for estimating the economic value of project
costs; average of quarterly actual exchange rates during project
implementation were used for currency conversion.
6.    All investment costs, including equipment and civil works, and operating
costs have been included. Two assumptions were used in estimating operating
costs during post-project phase - a 5% annual increasu (scenario 1), and zero
increase (scenario 2) reflecting improvements in plant operation and
management.



Indonesia                                                                                                                                                                        Table I of Amex 2
Project Completion Report
Seeds- 11 (Ln 2066- IND)
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Rp Million (Constant 1989)                                                                                                                                                              .scmio I
Description                   1982    1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005
Seed Production & Sales 1/
- Production
NSC                                                 240   6"45   7354  13915  15000  16100  15316  21074  23603  26435  30130 30130  30130 30130  30130  3010D 30130  30130  30130  30130  3013D
PT Pertasni                                          70   im       977   1543   1700   1904   2132   23u   2675   296   3420   342D  3420   342D  3430   3420  3420   3420   3420   342D  3420
Toaul                                             3630   7667  U361  15453  16700  1I74  3094  23462  26273  29431  33600  33600 33600  33600 33600  3360  3360  3360  33600  33600  33600
-Sales                                                 3258   6900   7525  1912  15030  16834  I3U4  21116  23650  2643  30240 302    30240  3024   30240  3020  3040  30240  30240  30240 30240
Incraentl Paddy Production  2/
- Wetnd                                                13293  28153  30703  56762  61322  63651  76923  56154  96492 10071 123376 123379 123376  123379 323376  123379 123370 123379 123376  123376  123379
- Drylynd                                               n97   2070   2257   4174   4509   50s0   5656   6335   7095   7946   9072   9072   907s   9072  O9           n 2 9       9072   9072   w72   9072
Totl                                              14270  30223  329s9  60935  6531  73731 2579  92    103537 116017 132451 33245I 132451  332I 133I245  3345  334   345  132451  132433 332453   0'
Economic Value   3/                                       2709   5609   SM    19759  22647  19941 22074  24434  27047  2993   33779 33684  33592 33497 33405  33312 33312 33312 33312 33312  33312
Economic Costs
- Civil Works                      592  1524  2123   1650  570   2766 2367   1954   472    236              0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0
- Equipent                           0      0 2536   1637    413   4569   1900    771    I9         9       0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0
- TA &  Others                      33    111    139    260    221    177      99     70    U3    41        0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0
- Opeusing Cost   4/               646   I33   4874   6229   5766   5194   92D5  12754  13392  14062  14765  15503  16276  17092  176  144  I176  20775  21314  22905  24050 25252 26515  27841
Total                     1270   3519   9773   9776   7040  12707  13571  15549  14144  14433  14765  15503  16273  17092  17946  1344  19736  2075  21614  22905  24050  2252  26515  27641
Not Befits                         -1270  -3519  -9773  -7067  -1432  -4323   613   7093   5797   7636   9669  11544  13660  16637  15733  14743  13711  12329  11496  1o047   9262   3059  6797   5471
Assumptions  : I/ ae  par  2&3  of annex 2
2/ see pra 4 of annx 2
3/ se  pus  5 & 3 of annex 2
4/ se pars 6 of annex 2
Ec. Rate of Retun = 20.39%



Indonesia                                                                                                                                                                        Table 2 of Azwx 2
Project Completion Report
Seeds - Il (Ln 2066 - IND)
Economic Rate of Retum Calculation
Rp Million (Constant 1989)                                                                                                                                                              Scmo 2
Ducuipi IoM                           1993  1914  15  19816  1917  1911  1919  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1991  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  20S
Seed Production & S.1     1/
- Production
NSC                                                 234    6445   738  13933  15000  16300  3816  21076  23603 26435 30140  30160 30130  30140  30110 3010  30160  30130 0160  30130  30160
PT Pitan                                             730   1222    977   1543   1700   1904   2132   23      2675   2996   3420   3420   3420   3420  3420   342D   342D  342D   342D   342D   3420
Toul                                              3620   7667   8361  15458  16700  174  2         23462 2627t  29431 3360D  33600 3360   33600  33600 33600  336    3300                336W   33600
- Sales                                                32      69D0   7525  13912  35030  16334  1354  21116 23650  26483 30240             3024   3020  2       30240  302    3M             300 
Inrmnal Paddy Productio   2/
- Watland                                              132M3  2315   30W    762  61322  "61   76923  66154  9649  3073  123379 123379 123379  23379 3            12337   1379 123279 123379 12337  12337
- Dryad                                                  977   2070   2257   4174   4509    00   M6    63    7095   74    9U   92    07    92   97    97                   07    92    M22   972   9072
Totl                                              14270  3U3  t329  603   63m  73731  30279  92    3O6  336037  33t45              13 24 U53  334  13451 t332453 f33453 3t3  332453 M3453 332453 
Econonc Volvo   3/                                        2709   50      37   19739  22647  19941 22074  24434  27047  299    33779  33634  332  33497  334    33312  33312  33312   312  33312  33312
Economic Coat
- Civil Woks                       592   1524   2123   1650    57    2766   2367   I934    472    236
- Equiplme                           0      0   2536  1637   4*3   4569   190D    771    19         94
- TA &Othrs                         33     1I    139    260    221    177      9g     70     43     41
- Opeaing Cost                     646   I33   4374   6229   5746  53194   9205  12754  12D13  11404  I1           10947  107O9   10795  105  10735  3075  WM   37          5  1075   075  33 3MWM
Totl                      1270   3319   973   9776  7040  12707  13571  15549  12765  11760  I099  10947  1075  107935   10795 175  3M5    M5  30735 I            n5  35     3075  10735  10795
Not Benefit.                       -1270  -3519  -9773  -7067  -1432  -4323   613   7093   7176  10294  13335  16100  19143  22934  2230  22797  22703  22610  22517  22517  22517 22517  22517 22517
A_suptiow    : 1/ ee pam   2   3 of ammx 2
2/use pa  4 of a_nex 2
3/ we pa  5 & 3 of smix 2
4/ sa pan 6 of samex 2
Ec. Rate of Return = 24.6%



