Document of                 FECOPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 - 0 ,-j      -.
Report No. 312la-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND SEEDS PROJECT
November 9, 1981
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00        =  Rp 625 (since November 1978)
Rp 100         =  US$0.16
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)   =  1,000 grams = 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton       =  1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)    =  10,000 square meters (sq m) = 2.47 acres
1 meter (m)        =  39.37 inches
ABBREVIATIONS
AARD           -  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BAPPENAS       -  National Development Planning Agency
BIMAS          -  Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs
(short-term farm-input credit program)
BPH           -  Brown Plant Hopper
BRI            -  Indonesian Peoples' Bank (Bank Rakyat Indonesia)
BULOG          -  National Logistics Agency (Badan Umum Logistik)
DGC            -  Directorate General of Cooperatives
DGFCA          -  Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
DPD            -  Provincial Agricultural Service (Dinas Pertanian Daerah)
FCRI           -  Food Crops Research Institute
GOI            -  Government of Indonesia
HYV            -  High Yielding Variety (of rice)
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
INMAS         -  Mass Intensification for Self-sufficiency in Foodstuffs
(farm-input program without credit)
IPB           -  Bogor Agricultural Institute (Institut Pertanian Bogor)
KUD            -  Village Cooperative (Kooperasi Unit Desa)
m.c.           -  moisture content
MOA            -  Ministry of Agriculture
NSC            -  National Seeds Corporation
p.a.          -  per annum
PPAR          -  Project Performance Audit Report (of Seeds I)
PSF            -  Provincial Seed Farm
PUSKUD         -  Central Cooperative (Pusat Kooperasi Unit Desa)
Repelita III  -  Indonesia-s Third Five-Year Plan, April 1979 - March 1984
SCCS          -  Seed Control and Certification Service
SSP           -  Subdirectorate for Seed Production
TOR            -  Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Breeder seed      - seed of high genetic purity, produced by a plant breeder
Foundation seed   - progeny of breeder seed, multiplied under a plant
breeder's technical supervision, which meets
certification standards
Stock seed        - progeny of foundation seed, which meets certification
standards
Extension seed    - progeny of stock seed for commercial sale to farmers,
which meets certification standards
Certified seed    - seed conforming to purity and quality standards;
includes foundation, stock and extension seed
Regulated seed    - seed failing to meet one or more standards for certifi-
cation, but meeting standards for regulated seed
Nonregulated seed - seed failing to meet or be tested for the standards for
extension or regulated seed
Commercial seed   - seed for sale to farmers for production of a commercial
crop - includes extension, regulated and nonregulated
seed
Variety           - a subdivision of a plant kind which is distinct, uniform
and stable when reproduced
Palawija          - secondary foodcrop grown in rotation with wetland rice;
also refers to those crops when grown in upland areas
Roguing           - weeding out of off-types and other varieties
Grain legumes     - soybeans, groundnuts and mungbeans (in context of
project)
Cereal grains     - rice and maize (in context of project)
SUMMARY OF SEED CATEGORIES
Breeder seed             }
Foundation seed          } Certified seed
Stock seed               }
Extension seed        }  }
Regulated seed        }     Commercial seed
Nonregulated seed    }
FISCAL YEARS
Government                           -  April 1 - March 31
NSC, P.T. Pertani and Cooperatives - January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



INDONESIA
SECOND SEEDS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.   PROJECT  AND  AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  BACKGROUND  .  . . . . . .  . . .                            1
Project  Background  .1..  .              .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   . .
Agricultural Sector Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Role  and  Performance  .I..  .              .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   . .
Food Crops.. .......  2
Perennial Crops    ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  3
Area Development and Transmigration .  . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Role  of Government  ...  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  4
Bank Lending  Strategy    ...  .                 .  .   .  .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .     .  5
2.   FOODCROP  SEED  PRODUCTION  IN  INDONESIA   . . . . . . . . . . . .                              6
Overview  ....         .      .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .    .  6
Varietal Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 6
Breeder,  Foundation  and  Stock  Seed  .  . . . .  . . .  . . . . .                          7
Commercial  Seed  (Extension,  Regulated,  and Nonregulated  Seed)                            7
Marketing  and  Prices  ...  .               .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .     .  8
Seed  for Transmigrants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               9
Shortcomings  of  the  Seed  Industry   .  . . . . . .  . . . . . .                          9
3.   THE  SEEDS  I PROJECT    . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  . . . . . .    10
General Description    ...  .                .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .    .  10
Seed Production  by NSC  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Seed Control  and  Certification  Service  (SCCS)    .  . . . . . .    11
Food  Crops  Research  Institute  (FCRI),  Sukamandi    .  . . . . .    11
PPAR  Conclusions  and  Recommendations  .  . . . . . . . . . . .    11
4. THE PROJECT .13
Formulation    .  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Objectives  ....          .      .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .      .                  14
General Description    ...  .                .  .   .  .  .   .          .                  14
Scope   ....  .             .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .     .    15
Detailed  Features    ...  .              .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .     .  16
Phasing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Cost  Estimates          ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .      ..    ....          .    22
Financing   ....          .       .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .     .  22
Procurement    .  . . . . . . .  . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Disbursement  ....           .       .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .     .    24
Accounts  and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                24



- ii -
Page No.
5.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES  . . . . . . . .  25
Seeds Policy Formulation ... .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   .   25
Overall Seeds II Project Management  . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture (DGFCA)  . . .  25
National Seeds Corporation (NSC) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
P.T.   Pertani   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
Cooperatives ....  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   28
Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs) . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Technical Assistance ...  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
Contract Growers ....  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   31
Evaluation, Monitoring and Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Start-up Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
6.  PRODUCTION AND TECHNOLOGY  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   33
Seed Yields and Production   ...  .  .  .   ...  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  33
Seasonal Cropping Patterns ... .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .   .  34
Seed Handling and Processing ...  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .   .  35
Seed Storage ....  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   35
7.  MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY  . . . .  36
Market for Project Seed   ..36
Seed Prices   ..38
Cost Recovery   ..39
Marketing and Prices of Crops  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
Farm Incomes of Contract Seed Growers  . . . . . . . . . . .  40
NSC's Financial Status and Projections . . . . . . . . . . .  41
8. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .41
Project Benefits and Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
Rate of Return Calculation    ..43
Sensitivity Analysis   ..44
Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  45
Environmental Effects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
9.  RECOMMENDATIONS  .......................   46



- iii -
Page No.
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
4.1  Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 23
6.1  Expected Seed Yields . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 33
6.2  Seed Area and Production Targets for Twelve Province . . . .  34
7.1  Estimated Annual BIMAS/INMAS Demand for Project Seed . . . .  36
7.2  Estimated Annual Transmigration Demand for Project Seed  . .  37
7.3  Estimated Annual Total Demand for Project Seed . . . . . . .  38
7.4  Seed Production Costs  . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . ...   39
8.1  Annual Incremental Project Benefits at Full Development  . .  43
8.2  Sensitivity Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
ANNEXES
1 - Project Cost
Table  1:  Breeder Seed Storage Costs
Table  2:  Seed Production Supervision Costs
Table  3:  Investment Costs in Provincial Seed Farms
Table 4a:  Investment Costs in New Seed Processing Centers
Table 4b:  Investment Costs in Existing NSC Seed Processing Centers
Table  5:  Cost of Vehicles
Table  6:  Incremental Working Capital Requirements
Table  7:  Investment Costs for SCCS Laboratories
Table  8:  Incremental Operating Cost for SCCS
Table 9a:  Training Costs - IPB Diploma Course
Table 9b:  Training Costs - In-Service
Table 10:  Technical Assistance Costs
Table 11:  Cost of Studies
2 - Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
3 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4 - Foodcrop Area and Production in Project Provinces, 1979
5 - Seed Certification and Regulation Standards
Table  1:  Existing Field Standards for Certification
Table  2:  Recommended Field Standards for Certification
Table  3:  Existing Laboratory Standards for Certification or
Regulation
Table  4:  Recommended Laboratory Standards for Certification or
Regulation
6 - Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants to DGFCA
7 - Draft Rerms of Reference for Studies
8 - Statements of Expenditure
9  -  Contract Growers' Farm Budgets
Table  1:  Farmgate Prices for Inputs and Outputs
Table  2:  Contract Grower:  1 ha Wetland Rice
Table  3:  Contract Grower:  I ha Dryland Rice
Table  4:  Contract Grower:  1 ha Maize
Table  5:  Contract Grower:  1 ha Soybean
Table  6:  Contract Grower:  1 ha Groundnut
Table  7:  Contract Grower:  1 ha Mungbean



- iv -
ANNEXES (continued)
10 - Economic Analysis
Table  1:  Economic Prices for Crops
Table  2:  Economic Costs
Table  3:  Economic Benefits
11 - Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
CHARTS
21989 Primary GOI Agencies with Main Project Responsibilities
MAP
15173R Project Locations
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Mr. S. Ettinger, Mr. H. Matheson, Ms. V. Elliott (Bank) and Mr. E. Koller
(consultant) which visited Indonesia in March/April 1980, and a following
visit by Mr. Ettinger in February/March 1981.



INDONESIA
SECOND SEEDS PROJECT
1. PROJECT AND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR BACKGROUND
Project Background
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance
for a project to expand the supply and improve the quality of seed of rice
and some of the main secondary foodcrops (palawija) - maize, soybeans,
groundnuts and mungbeans - to increase food availability and help approach
food self-sufficiency. The project would operate nationwide, with emphasis
on the major food-producing and key transmigrant-receiving provinces.
It would grow and process some 27,000 tons of seed annually by 1987/88,
enough to plant about 450,000 ha of rice and 325,000 ha of palawija. The
project would also strengthen the National Seeds Corporation (NSC), P.T.
Pertani, cooperatives and other agencies, build up domestic training
capability in the seeds subsector, and pave the way for larger cooperative
and private sector roles in seed processing.
1.02      The project was prepared by the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program in
March 1979, and reflects needs and priorities outlined in GOI's Third
Five-Year Plan (Repelita III), April 1979-March 1984. It would be a follow-
up to Seeds I (Cr. 246-IND, signed May 19, 1971, for $7.5 million), which
was limited to rice seed production on Java (see Chapter 3).
Agricultural Sector Objectives
1.03      The Government's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder
tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land,
water and other natural resources.
Role and Performance
1.04      Nearly 16 million smallholder families grow subsistence and cash
crops on 16 million ha, while 1,800 estates occupying 2.2 million ha produce
mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil, and tobacco. Despite a 4% p.a.
average growth of production, agriculture-s share of GDP has declined from
40% to 30% since 1968, while its share of exports dropped from 45% to 37%
due to the increased value of oil exports. Nevertheless, agriculture
provides 80% of non-oil exports, and remains of overwhelming importance to
the great majority of Indonesians:  nearly 80% of the population is rural,
and agriculture is the major source of income for about two-thirds of rural
households and one-tenth of urban households.



-2-
1.05      Employment.  Agriculture's share of total employment decreased
from 69% in 1961 to 64% in September 1971, while in 1976 it ranged between
66% in March (the main rice harvest) and 60% in October./I Nevertheless,
agriculture remained by far the largest single source (with 42%) of new
employment during 1971-78. Outside Java, employment prospects in agricul-
ture are quite promising, given the sustained increases in the smallholder
area due to land and irrigation development, including that under publicly
sponsored and spontaneous transmigration. In Java, rehabilitation of
irrigation systems, which generated significant employment in the 1970s,
should continue to provide additional construction and farm work.
Food Crops
1.06      Rice Production.  Given its limited manpower and financial
resources, GOI has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the
preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production
increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) over 1968-74, chiefly due to irrigation
rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and
high-yielding variety (HYV) seed, financed largely through the BIMAS credit
program. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. over 1974-77, in the
wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on private
sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and
unprecedented attacks by pests and diseases, principally the brown plant
hopper (BPH) and associated viruses. Over 1977-80, rice production increased
by about 7% p.a., with better weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer
distribution, and nationwide Government distribution of recently-introduced
BPH-resistant varieties, reaching almost 20 million tons in 1980.
1.07      Palawija Production.  Over the past decade, output of secondary
food crops grew more slowly, at an average of only 1.6% p.a., composed of a
1.1% p.a. average decline in area (much of this land shifting to irrigated
rice) and a 2.7% p.a. increase in yield. Soybeans and groundnuts had fairly
steady production increases averaging 3.3% p.a. and 3.9% p.a. respectively,
while maize and cassava output fluctuated widely, with no clear trend.
1.08      Demand-Supply Balance.  These gains in food output did not keep
pace with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand due to rising population and
/1 In 1976, shares were 63% in March and 57% in October in Java, and 72%
and 66%, respectively, elsewhere. The total drop in agricultural
employment from March to October was 6.7 million. Precise estimation is
difficult due to the surveys' shifting definitions and seasonal timing.



- 3 -
incomes. Indonesia became the world's largest rice importer, with annual
imports averaging about 1.9 million tons in 1977-79. Simultaneously, wheat
imports rose to 1-1.2 million tons p.a., cassava exports nearly disappeared,
and soybean and maize imports began to grow. The "Indonesia Supply Prospects
for Major Food Crops" (Report No. 2374-IND of March 3, 1979) concluded that
even with expanded irrigation, and improved technology, extension, credit
and marketing, food production growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a
basic food deficit up to at least 1990, with an annual rice deficit alone of
2-3 million tons.
1.09       Future Strategy.  To keep rice imports at a reasonable fraction of
the world rice trade, and to prevent a widening food production-consumption
gap, productivity and area of both rice and palawija must be increased. In
Java, rice-cropping intensity and yields could be raised through water storage
and groundwater projects, construction of tertiary irrigation and drainage
systems, and improving support services. The Other Islands have potential for
new irrigation systems, including tidal and swamp land. Palawija yields could
be increased substantially by improved husbandry, including use of fertilizer
and pesticides. GOI is giving increasing attention to research, credit, seeds
and marketing for secondary crops.
Perennial Crops
1.10      Perennial crops occupy about a third of total cropped land (coconuts
and rubber account for 80% of this), and generate some 43% of total nonoil
export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber area and virtually
all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and oil palm are grown
primarily on estates. Despite recent higher world prices for Indonesia's
major tree crop products, only oil palm has shown sustained large increases in
production, due to investment by Government and private estates. With the
long immaturity of tree crops, static production levels are a symptom of past
low prices and neglect, especially inadequate research and extension, and
failure to replant with higher-yielding varieties.
1.11      Smallholder Development.  Efforts-to revitalize the smallholder tree
crop sector have commenced on several fronts. Under the four Bank-financed
Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) projects, Government estates plant and
maintain tree crops on previously undeveloped land for three years, using
farmers selected to be settlers (including local landless families and trans-
migrants) as employees, and thereafter provide the settlers with inputs,
extension services, and processing facilities. Tree crops are also starting
to play a major role in the transmigration program. In addition, GOI has
initiated national programs to assist geographically concentrated groups of
existing smallholders to plant rubber or coconuts themselves, with fairly
intensive support from project management units. This is the approach of the



-4-
Bank-financed Smallholder Rubber Development and Smallholder Coconut
Development Projects. Given the vast area of overaged and low-yielding
smallholder rubber and coconuts, the good market prospects and employment
potential for these crops, and the Other Islands land availability and
natural comparative advantage in them, rapid expansion of smallholder tree
crops, using all suitable approaches, is a high priority.
Area Development and Transmigration
1.12      Java.  About 88 million people live in Java, at a density of
665/sq km. The island, with 7% of Indonesia's land area, has 45% of the
cropped area and 63% of the population. Java generally has higher fertility
and better infrastructure than the Other Islands; however, its cultivable
land is almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds cultivation
already exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to increasing
erosion, downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation
canals. GOI is preparing watershed development and integrated development
projects to address this problem. In addition, rural development programs
designed to meet basic needs and to generate employment and production have
been developed for certain critically poor areas of Java.
1.13      Other Islands.  In the Other Islands, population density is
generally low, and undeveloped land is available. An organized transmigration
program is important for regional and natural resource development there, as
well as for production of food and export crops, and creation of employment
and improved living conditions for landless Javanese. Unfortunately, this
program has long been hampered by overly ambitious targets and by weak,
uncoordinated implementation. GOI reorganized the program in preparation
for Repelita III, by transferring most implementation responsibility from
the Directorate General of Transmigration to the line agencies normally
responsible for each sector. This measure needs to be complemented by
continued attention to technical and policy issues including the (a) suit-
ability of the land for food crops, (b) role of and organizational arrange-
ments for tree crops, (c) methods of timber disposal, (d) appropriate
target incomes and farm sizes, (e) extent of Government financial, market-
ing and other services to settlers, (f) role of spontaneous migration, and
(g) efficient means of resolving the claims of local inhabitants. The
Transmigration II Project (Loan 1707-IND and Credit 919-IND) is expected to
address some of these issues.
Role of Government
1.14      While the private sector should be encouraged to expand its role
in agricultural input supply, marketing, and processing, Government bears
the major responsibility for infrastructure, resource conservation, and
other services. Despite marked improvements over the past decade, overly
centralized procedures, weak regional planning, and technical and managerial



-5-
manpower constraints have impeded agricultural programs. GOI's concern for
area development has also increased the need to strengthen provincial and
local planning. Future programs responsive to GOI's stated objectives will
necessarily be complex, requiring closely coordinated programs of
agricultural research, extension, input supply, credit, land development,
transport, pricing policies and marketing. GOI must therefore continue to
strengthen its key rural development institutions, particularly through the
education, recruitment, training and retention of technical manpower.
Bank Lending Strategy
1.15      GOI and the Bank generally agree on overall objectives and strate-
gies for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative
emphasis to be given to different investments, and on the technical design of
some projects, such differences are not impeding Bank operations generally,
and are usually resolved by further analysis and dialogue.
1.16      Projects.  Since the first of 15 irrigation projects was approved
in 1968, the Bank Group's agricultural lending has rapidly expanded to
include estate and smallholder tree crops, fertilizer production and
distribution, sugar, livestock, fisheries, research, extension, training, rice
seeds, swamp development, transmigration, integrated rural development, and
resource survey and mapping. The Operations Evaluation Department's Sector
Operations Review of Bank Group agricultural lending in Indonesia (Report No.
2166, dated August 9, 1978) concluded that despite deficiencies in some
projects, the Bank's portfolio in Indonesian agriculture was "of overall good
quality and likely to contribute substantially to increased production."
Within the context of GOI's agricultural objectives and priorities, as
outlined in Repelita III, future Bank lending is expected to focus on:
(a)  a diversified irrigation, flood protection, drainage and swamp
reclamation program to intensify rice cropping on Java and
extend water management in the Other Islands;
(b)  watershed management to conserve soil and ensure long-term
productivity in the densely populated areas of Java;
(c)  smallholder tree crop planting programs; and
(d)  transmigration.
1.17      Sector Work.  These projects will continue to be complemented by
extensive sector work. Analyses of employment and income distribution,
irrigation, agricultural support services, food crop production, the rubber
subsector, the edible oils market in Indonesia and the transmigration program
have improved the Bank's understanding of the sector's needs and of GOI's
policies. Two reviews with particular long-term relevance to seed
production, on food crops and the supply and requirements of technical and
managerial manpower for agriculture, are underway.



- 6 -
2. FOODCROP SEED PRODUCTION IN INDONESIA
Overview
2.01      Interest in foodcrop seed development in Indonesia rose rapidly in
the late 1960s, when wetland rice HYVs were introduced. Later, the planting
of large areas to a few varieties, and the introduction of year-round
cropping, helped lead to large-scale BPH infestation in the mid-1970s. The
need for continuous breeding, selecting and multiplying of new HYVs, for
pest resistance and other qualities, led to the establishment of a rice seed
industry. As rice farmers have become variety conscious, they have also
increasingly sought improved quality seed. Palawija seed has received much
less attention, because of the crops' smaller role in Indonesia, and because
few suitable varieties with high yield potential have been available.
2.02      Multiplication of certified rice seed (i.e. seed which meets estab-
lished standards of varietal purity, germination, cleanliness and moisture
content) in Indonesia generally goes through four generations. Breeder seed,
produced by plant breeders at research stations, is multiplied successively
into foundation seed, stock seed and extension seed, with slightly lower
standards for each generation (see paras. 2.05-2.06 and Annex 5). Seed
which fails to qualify as extension seed /1 is called regulated seed if it
meets less rigorous standards. In addition, a great deal of untested,
nonregulated seed is sold or traded, and farmers often keep part of their
own grain for planting. There is as yet no certification of palawija seed,
as the varieties lack uniformity and distinctive plant characteristics which
could be identified by field inspection. After release by research
stations, palawija seed is multiplied to produce grades of regulated seed
comparable to foundation, stock and extension seed.
Varietal Development
2.03      Development of rice and palawija varieties emphasizes disease
and insect resistance, yield, eating quality., early maturity, and suit-
ability to Indonesia's various ecological conditions. The Food Crops
Research Institutes (FCRIs - para. 5.17) test new strains in yield trials
under varying climatic, soil, water and management conditions. Official
release of new varieties is by decree of the Minister of Agriculture on the
recommendation of the National Seeds Board's (para. 5.01) Varietal Release
Committee.
/1 Usually because (a) a different variety had been planted on the land the
previous season, or (b) extension instead of stock seed had been planted.



- 7 -
2.04      Indonesia has been giving high priority to wetland rice breeding.
HYVs cover about 65% of the wetland rice area, and BPH-resistant HYVs 85% of
the HYV area. Of the 20 wetland HYVs now grown in Indonesia, about half were
bred at the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines,
and the remainder at FCRIs, primarily Bogor and Sukamandi in West Java. Many
promising (unreleased) breeding lines exist, with varying resistance to BPH
biotypes I and II, tungro virus, gall midge and bacterial leaf blight, the
main wetland rice pest and disease problems in Indonesia. As the wetland rice
HYVs are not resistant to blast, the principal dryland rice disease problem,
special dryland varieties are being developed. Few improved palawija
varieties have been released (since 1975, four varieties of groundnut, three
of maize, two of cassava, and one each of soybean, mungbean, and sweet potato)
because of the relatively recent emphasis on such research, and the shortage
of qualified breeders.
Breeder, Foundation and Stock Seed
2.05      Breeder Seed.  The Subdirectorate of Seed Production (SSP -
para. 5.03) in the Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture (DGFCA)
arranges with the Central FCRI for breeder seed production. Due to lack of
airconditioned facilities for long-term seed storage, the FCRIs have had to
maintain stocks of breeder seed by planting them each season.
2.06      Foundation and Stock Seed of Rice.  Foundation and stock seed are
grown by a few Provincial Seed Farms (PSFs) of the Provincial Agricultural
Services (Dinas Pertanian Daerah - DPD), and by the National Seeds Corporation
(NSC) at Sukamandi.  Foundation seed production is under FCRIs' close tech-
nical supervision (until 1979, FCRIs also grew the foundation seed). Ten HYVs
are currently being multiplied in 13 provinces, with an annual planted area of
18 ha for foundation seed and 700 ha for stock seed. The SSP plans and
finances foundation and some stock seed production, based on the DPDs' demand
projections. Excess breeder, foundation and stock seed are grown to ensure
adequate supplies of varieties that may turn out to be in demand.
2.07      Palawija Seed Multiplication.  Some PSFs also multiply released and
other palawija varieties, but there is no centralized planning by the SSP, and
much less quality control than for rice.
Commercial Seed (Extension, Regulated and Nonregulated Seed)
2.08      The final multiplication into commercial seed (i.e. seed sold for
crop production, rather than for further multiplication) was initially done



-8-
primarily by PSFs. GOI policy now is to continue shifting commercial seed
production away from the PSFs (leaving them to concentrate on foundation and
stock seed, demonstration and training) to NSC, P.T. Pertani, cooperatives
and private growers. Private rice seed growers generally purchase stock seed
(if available) or extension seed from PSFs, and sell their output locally.
Many began through GOI's Demonstration of Improved Seed (Dembul) Program,
under which the DPDs distribute new rice HYVs to groups of selected farmers,
who plant demonstration plots, and can sell the output as seed. Most commer-
cial palawija seed, as well as non-HYV rice seed, is merely selected consump-
tion grain, although PSFs and private growers produce small amounts specially
for seed.
2.09      Indonesia's annual planted area of HYV rice is some five million ha.
Assuming farmers on average purchase seed every third planting (para. 7.01),
and plant 30 kg/ha of seed, total HYV seed demand is some 50,000 tons. In
1979/80, some 8,300 tons of rice extension seed were produced, of which about
6,150 tons was by NSC, 1,400 tons by PSFs and 750 tons by private growers.
Regulated rice seed output from PSFs and private growers (NSC may sell only
certified seed) is about 2,000 tons p.a., and from P.T. Pertani, the GOI-
owned agricultural trading company, now 5,800 tons. The remaining 65-70% of
the total HYV seed is nonregulated, obtained either through commercial
channels or direct from other farmers.
Marketing and Prices
2.10      Market Channels for Rice Seed.  NSC supplies seed to about 50 regis-
tered private dealers and village cooperatives (KUDs), some of whom distribute
it wholesale to small kiosks. P.T. Pertani also sells primarily via KUDs; at
GOI's request, it sometimes purchases seed in one province for sale in
another. PSFs and private growers sell directly to farmers or through
dealers and KUDs.
2.11      Rice Seed Prices.  The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) sets only one
seed price: that of extension seed from NSC, retail. This price, Rp 210/kg
since July, 1980,/1 has remained between 165% and 220% of the price for con-
sumption grain. MOA has kept the price well below NSC's cost of production
(Table 7.4) to stimulate demand. The retail price for NSC seed largely
determines the price for HYV seed of all qualities. Most provincial govern-
ments sell PSF seed at the NSC price, and dealers find they can often sell
lower quality seed from private growers at the same price. The private
sector has therefore lacked incentive to upgrade the quality of its seed, and
at these low prices usually cannot produce extension seed profitably.
2.12      Palawija Seed.  Palawija seed is also retailed by P.T. Pertani
(800 tons in 1980), private merchants, KUDs and PSFs. Prices vary widely,
depending on seed quality, palawija prices, and supply/demand conditions.
Crops purchased by small merchants at harvest time, when prices are low, are
/1 NSC has now proposed to increase it in Java to Rp 235/kg for common
varieties, and Rp 250/kg for new varieties.



hand winnowed and then transported for seed to the area with the next
planting season (generally between upland and lowland areas). Seed
prices average about 40% above consumption grain prices, and are currently Rp
100-170/kg for maize, Rp 250-400/kg for soybean and Rp 350-500/kg for
groundnut.
2.13      Credit.  Although BIMAS credit is available for rice and palawija
seed, it is not used extensively because of the declining importance of the
BIMAS program (only 23% of farmers purchasing inputs obtain BIMAS credit),
and because the loans are often not made in time for purchase of seed, the
first input needed.
Seed for Transmigrants
2.14      Transmigrants (see para. 7.03) have a special problem obtaining
seed, as they have little seed of their own to start with, and there are
few PSFs or other seed growers near transmigration areas. GOI policy calls
for the DPDs to (a) supply a free initial seed package, which the DPDs may
purchase locally if available, or have P.T. Pertani bring from another pro-
vince, (b) develop PSFs to produce stock seed in the transmigration provinces,
and (c) organize contract growers of commercial seed. Due to poor interagency
coordination, inadequate budget provisions, and the limited implementation
capacity of DPDs in the transmigration areas, seed, particularly of palawija,
has often been of inferior quality and delivered late, although the timeliness
of supply has been improving. Transmigration areas also lack seed laboratory
and seed storage facilities. The seed marketing and distribution study
(para. 4.24) would review the situation and make recommendations.
Shortcomings of the Seed Industry
2.15      Despite its success in developing, multiplying and distributing
BPH-resistant rice varieties, Indonesia's seed industry still has many
shortcomings:
(a) palawija, dryland rice and the Other Islands have been
largely neglected;
(b) there is inadequate processing and storage capacity;
(c) much seed marketing is inefficient, resulting in seed having to be
sold for consumption;
(d) low seed prices have discouraged the private and cooperative sectors
from upgrading seed quality; and
(e) there is a shortage of adequately trained and experienced personnel.
The Seeds II Project would attempt to address these problems.



- 10 -
3. THE SEEDS I PROJECT
General Description
3.01      Seeds I, implemented from 1971-78,/i initiated a modern HYV rice
seed industry in Java by establishing: (a) NSC, to own and operate a 2,450 ha
mechanized rice seed farm and a seed processing plant at Sukamandi (West
Java), and to manage seed districts where extension seed would be grown by
farmers, under contract to NSC, and processed and marketed by NSC; (b) the
Seed Control and Certification Service (SCCS), to administer seed purity and
quality standards; and (c) the Sukamandi FCRI, for research primarily on
wetland rice.
3.02      Attention had been given during project preparation to improving
the existing system of PSFs, or to basing the project primarily on contract
growing, but the more centralized Sukamandi farm approach was chosen instead,
to help ensure rapid development and high seed quality. An assurance was
even obtained that the existing seed streams (from the PSFs) would be phased
out as NSC seed became available. However, these streams have continued to
flourish, producing seed of somewhat lower quality, but at much lower cost.
3.03      Overall, the project had a mixed record.  It introduced high
quality seed, and created the institutions for production and certification
of the seed. NSC played a major role in the rapid multiplication and dis-
tribution of BPH-resistant varieties. Unfortunately, the difficulties
associated with development and operation of the Sukamandi farm detracted
significantly from the project's accomplishments.
Seed Production by NSC
3.04      Development of the Sukamandi farm has taken more than twice as long
as planned,/2 and seed yields have averaged only 1.6 tons/ha (2.0 tons/ha of
dry grain, before cleaning), half the appraisal estimate.  These difficulties
resulted from:  (a) a project design based on unproven and inappropriate tech-
nology; (b) poor implementation by NSC, whose top officials had background in
neither seed production, estate operation, nor enterprise management; (c) poor
land-development contractor performance; and (d) pest and disease problems,
especially BPH and rats. Mechanized rice farming had never been done success-
fully before on a large scale in Indonesia and should not have been undertaken
at Sukamandi without a pilot project.
/1  See the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of December 28, 1979.
/2  About 450 ha are still not fully developed.  The Jatiluhur Authority has
promised to provide irrigation there over the next few years, and NSC
is gradually levelling and bunding the land.



- 11 -
3.05       Because of project cost overruns, only one of the three planned
seed districts (at Klaten, Central Java) was developed under the project.
After some initial problems, it has proven much more successful than the
Sukamandi estate, with seed yields averaging 50% higher (2.4 tons/ha).
3.06       At project completion in 1978, total NSC seed production was only
4,000 tons/year, compared to the target of 22,000 tons/year. NSC, intended
to be self-financing by June, 1978, was losing about $2 million/year due to
high costs, low yields, and low sales prices (para. 2.11).
Seed Control and Certification Service (SCCS)
3.07       Prior to 1971, few provinces exercised any seed quality control.
Under Seeds I, a National Seeds Law was passed, under which procedures and
standards for rice seed certification and marketing were set, based on
international criteria, and SCCS was created within DGFCA to implement and
enforce them. Seeds I established SCCS only in Java, but it now operates in
13 provinces, and is becoming nationwide. For certified seed, SCCS inspects
sample areas within each block three times to ensure varietal purity standards
are met, and then undertakes laboratory tests for germination, moisture
content and cleanliness. In 1979, SCCS started laboratory testing of small
quantities of palawija, for regulated seed. SCCS, already a respected and
efficient institution, has helped educate farmers on the value of seed of
certified quality, and is solidly based to become a multi-crop service.
Food Crops Research Institute (FCRI), Sukamandi
3.08       FCRI Sukamandi, with 250 ha, was to become the center of rice
research, to ensure a supply of HYVs to support the seed multipli-
cation program. Problems in land development, drainage, and recruiting
research specialists caused delays, but since 1975 FCRI Sukamandi has bred
four new HYVs with BPH resistance, and helped test other varieties.
Research on palawija is just starting. Improvement of drainage and
expansion of laboratory facilities are being financed under the Irrigation
XII (Loan 1645-IND) and Research I (Loan 1179-IND) Projects.
PPAR Conclusions and Recommendations
3.09       The Seeds I PPAR, written with Seeds II in mind, had three main
conclusions with important implications for NSC and Seeds II: that (a)
contract growing is more efficient than mechanized rice estate production;
(b) NSC needs considerable strengthening before being given additional
responsibilities; and (c) tender documents should be prepared and marketing
studies carried out before appraisal.
3.10       NSC has acted already on item (a).  It has expanded its contract
growing system rapidly over the past two years at Klaten, eight sites in East



- 12 -
Java (using processing facilities owned and operated by the DPD),/l and
near Sukamandi, so that contract growing now accounts for over half of NSC's
output. About 400 ha of the Sukamandi estate is rented out to contract
growers because NSC has only enough harvesting machinery for 1,200 ha of the
2,000 ha developed (on average, 400 ha are fallow). This shift in emphasis
away from mechanized farming would continue under Seeds II. On the Sukamandi
farm, seed grown by NSC has cost about Rp 60/kg more than comparable seed from
contract growers. Eight of NSC's twelve combine harvesters will be uneconomic
to maintain by 1982, and the rest by 1985. The combine-harvesters have high
maintenance and depreciation costs, frequently break down under the wet,
clayey soil conditions, can be used only after the soil has dried out somewhat
(often resulting in late harvesting), and spill more grain than human harves-
ters. Agreement was therefore reached at negotiations that NSC would replace
no more than two combines. NSC would manage most of this 1,200 ha itself,
contracting out the main operations (land preparation, transplanting, har-
vest), and would compare the performance with contract growing, before decid-
ing which system to expand at Sukamandi.
3.11      NSC's performance has improved since the PPAR.  Its output has more
than doubled over the past two years, and NSC has shown initiative in search-
ing out underutilized facilities of other agencies for drying, cleaning and
storing output of contract growers. The gradual reduction of mechanized
production at Sukamandi, and increases in the sales price of NSC seed (para.
7.05), should put NSC on a sounder financial footing, thereby mitigating its
management problems. In addition, two vacant NSC Directorships were filled in
January 1981, and Seeds II would finance consultancy and staff training for
NSC, as well as require appointment of key NSC staff. Although poor NSC
management remains a project risk (para. 8.12), these measures are considered
sufficient to enable NSC to carry out its responsibilities under Seeds II.
3.12      Seeds II was not well enough defined before appraisal for tender
documents to be prepared. The project sites had not yet been finally selec-
ted, and the proposed size, ownership and technology of the processing centers.
needed to be confirmed. Furthermore, the PPAR recommendations went well
beyond the normal Bank policy for relatively simple works such as those
proposed under the project. Design standards for the processing center
buildings and seed farms already exist, and preliminary specifications have
been made for the processing equipment. A short-term consultant to finalize
equipment specifications is expected to begin work in December and the initial
tender documents are expected to be issued by about February 1982. The
marketing studies done under Seeds I, as updated and amended by the Seeds II
preparation and appraisal missions and the site selection study, indicate
adequate demand for seed to justify the proposed project (paras. 7.02-7.04).
A more detailed seed marketing study would be carried out under the project
(para. 4.24).
/1 Eight processing centers were built by the East Java DPD, for use
primarily by KUDs. W4hen the latter proved unable to utilize the
,lcilities, the DPD turned to NSC.



- 13 -
4. THE PROJECT
Formulation
4.01       The Seeds II Project was conceived as a means of extending the
coverage of Seeds I to other crops and provinces, while correcting some of
the shortcomings and avoiding the mistakes of its predecessor.  In particu-
lar, it would utilize existing PSFs and private growers instead of trying to
replace them, and would build upon NSC's success with contract growing.
4.02       The main issue during project preparation concerned the roles of
NSC, P.T. Pertani, cooperatives and the private sector in the project. NSC's
weaknesses had been pointed out in the Seeds I PPAR. Furthermore, GOI and the
Bank agreed that a greater private sector role in seed processing should be
sought, and dependence on state enterprises reduced wherever possible.  Never-
theless, it was felt that no private firm (a) would be likely soon to take the
risks inherent in pioneering seed processing for new areas and new crops, or
(b) had the size and expertise to rapidly multiply and distribute large
quantities of seed of new varieties to meet pest/disease problems. Among
government agencies, only NSC had sufficient experience and expertise in the
seed industry, especially in organizing contract growers, processing seed and
supplying a far-flung marketing network, to be the main implementing agency.
4.03       After appraisal, significant components for P.T. Pertani and coop-
eratives were added to the project.  P.T. Pertani was brought in primarily to
improve the seed supply to transmigration areas, a role assigned it by GOI
(para. 5.12). Furthermore, in provinces where the seed business alone is
insufficient to support branches of a specialized agency like NSC, P.T.
Pertani can process and distribute seed economically because the overhead
costs are shared by its other activities.  KUDs' involvement in the seed
industry have so far been limited primarily to marketing (para 5.15), as they
have lacked the management, size and incentives for efficient seed processing.
However, in accordance with present GOI policy for strengthening the
cooperatives and expanding their activities, the project would include six
small KUD processing centers on a pilot basis; more could be added if
the initial ones prosper. In addition, if they were found capable, central
cooperatives (PUSKUDs) in East and Central Java would own and operate up to
three of the larger processing centers.
4.04      A second set of issues were seed pricing and the financial arrange-
ments between GOI and the seed processors (NSC, P.T. Pertani, and coopera-
tives). The long-term goal would be for the latter to operate along
commercial lines, setting their own seed prices (high enough to cover all
costs), and not depending on GOI subsidies. However, some (but decreasing)
subsidization can be justified during the project period, to induce farmers to
use more high quality seed, as the seed market is not well developed (except
for wetland rice seed on Java), and most farmers are not fully aware of the
benefits of better quality seed. On the other hand, seed prices should be
high enough to make investments in seed processing profitable for the private



- 14 -
and cooperative sectors. Agreement was therefore reached on a phased increase
in seed prices (para. 7.05). To reduce the need for direct subsidies, GOI
would pass on project investment funds to NSC and P.T Pertani as equity, and
to cooperatives as subsidized loans. Although the private sector would need
to earn a return on its investments, it should be able to compete with the
state enterprises and cooperatives because it could select the most profitable
portions of the seed market, and would normally have lower overheads.
Objectives
4.05      The proposed project would increase the food supply and raise the
incomes of small farmers by (a) improving the quality, reliability and avail-
ability of rice and palawija seed, (b) strengthening NSC, P.T. Pertani, the
SCCS, and selected cooperatives and PSFs, and (c) providing incentives for a
larger private sector role in seed production and processing. The project is
highly interdependent with the two Bank-financed agricultural research
projects (Ln 1179-IND and Ln 1840-IND/Cr 1014-IND), as the research institutes
(FCRIs) would breed and test the new varieties. It also ties in with the two
agricultural extension projects (Ln 1267-IND and Cr 996-IND), because exten-
sion workers would educate the farmers about the benefits of improved seed,
and help the seed processors organize and supervise contract growers. By
improving provision of seed to transmigrants, the project would support GOI's
transmigration program, including the Transmigration I (Ln 1318) and II
Projects.
General Description
4.06      The project would have the following components:
(a) air-conditioned storage for breeder seed at five FCRIs (para. 4.10);
(b) incremental operating expenses of FCRIs for supervision of
foundation seed production and of DPDs for supervision of PSFs and
private growers (para. 4.11);
(c) irrigation/drainage improvements, storage, and other civil works
for about 40 PSFs, which would produce foundation and stock seed (or
their equivalent) of rice and palawija (paras. 4.12-4.14);
(d) about 18 new medium-sized seed processing centers (9 for NSC, 6 for
P.T. Pertani and 3 for either PUSKUDS or NSC), 6 new small centers
(for KUDs), and equipment and facilities for 10 existing centers
owned by NSC and the East Java DPD (paras. 4.15-4.16);
(e) vehicles for the various implementing agencies (para. 4.17);



- 15 -
(f) incremental working capital for the PSFs and seed processors
(para. 4.18);
(g) equipment and incremental operating expenses for SCCS (para. 4.19);
(h) facilities and operating expenses for a diploma course in seed
technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute (Institut Pertanian
Bogor - IPB), plus additional in-service training for staff of the
implementing agencies (paras. 4.20-4.21);
(i) technical assistance (para. 4.22); and
(j) studies of (i) seed marketing and distribution, (ii) the benefits
from using improved seed, (iii) seed treatment, (iv) project site
selection for years two-four, and (v) the potential private and
cooperative sector roles in seed processing, plus pilot activities
arising from this study (paras. 4.23-4.27).
Scope
4.07       Geographic Coverage.  The project would finance facilities for SCCS
and selected PSFs nationwide. Seed processing centers, however, would be only
in provinces where expected demand justified it. NSC-s nine new processing
centers would be in provinces where it is already producing seed (East, West
and Central Java, and Yogyakarta) or has newly built processing centers (South
Sulawesi, and North and West Sumatra)./l P.T. Pertani-s six new processing
centers under the project would be in provinces where it is now active in
seed marketing and simple processing (Bali and West Nusa Tenggara), or which
are major transmigration areas (Riau, Jambi, and South Kalimantan). The three
PUSKUD and six KUD centers would be in Java, where cooperative management is
strongest. These twelve provinces which would get seed processing centers
under the project supply close to 90% of Indonesia's rice and palawija (Annex
4). Where appropriate, they would also supply seed to neighboring provinces,
especially for transmigrants. About two-thirds of the project seed would be
produced in Java.
4.08       Crop Coverage.  The project would cover wetland and dryland rice,
maize, soybeans, groundnuts and mungbeans./2 These crops provide about 68% of
total calorie intake in Indonesia (rice 53%, palawija 15%), and 78% of total
protein (rice 50%, palawija 28%). Extension of improved seed production to
palawija will be more difficult than for rice, because (a) palawija breeding
/1 NSC has also built a seed processing center in Lampung, but no addi-
tional ones are expected to be needed there. There would probably be
one new center per province, except for about three in Central Java.
/2 Minor grains and pulses, like sorghum, cowpeas or longbeans, could be
handled by the project as well, if warranted.



- 16 -
is just starting to expand, (b) farmer willingness to invest in inputs for
palawija depends on the assurance of reasonable market prices (a major problem
for maize), and (c) as palawija seeds lose viability more quickly, efficient
distribution and marketing will be essential.  Thus, while the potential
benefits from improved palawija seed production are high (para. 8.04), so are
the risks, especially given the lack of experience with these seeds in
Indonesia.  The first objective would be to supply regulated seed of improved
varieties, especially with good germination rates.  Progression to certified
extension seed would be aimed for by the end of the project./l The main food
crops not included are those propagated vegetatively (cassava and sweet
potato), as these require special treatment to avoid transmission of diseases,
and immediate transport to prevent spoilage, and would complicate project
implementation considerably.
4.09       Seed Production Targets (paras. 7.01-7.05).  By 1988 (see para.
4.28) the supply of processed seed from NSC, P.T. Pertani and participating
cooperatives is targeted to reach 40% of the BIMAS/INMAS /2 market for
wetland rice seed and 20% for dryland rice and palawija in thirteen provinces.
The project would also supply about 60% of the initial seed packages for
transmigrants nationwide, and an equal amount of replacement seed for
transmigrants. Expected annual project output of 27,000 tons of extension
seed and regulated seed would be approximately one-half rice (including
dryland rice) and one half palawija. In the remaining provinces, improved and
expanded foundation and stock seed output would total some 150 tons, but
further multiplication into commercial seed would be left to PSFs and private
growers, without processing centers.
Detailed Features
4.10       Breeder Seed Storage ($0.1 million /3 - Annex 1, Table 1).  The
project would finance installation of temperature- and humidity-controlled
storage at FCRIs Bogor, Malang (East Java), Banjarmasin (South Kalimantan),
Maros (South Sulawesi) and Sukarami (West Sumatra), for some 15 tons of
breeder seed apiece./4 Prefabricated storage units would be imported. At
70C and 50% humidity, seed would retain its viability for over five years.
/1 To maintain international standards, certification would only be done
once it is possible to field test for varietal purity. Regulation can
be done by confirming the parentage of the seed and the field conditions.
There is too much variation within existing palawija varieties in
Indonesia for varietal purity to be easily measured.
/2 Farmers who purchase fertilizer and other agrochemicals, either on credit
(BIMAS) or for cash (INMAS); they are the only likely purchasers of exten-
sion or regulated seed.
/3 Base cost, excluding physical and price contingencies.
/4 The production cost of this breeder seed, once new varieties have been
developed, would be minimal, and is in the FCRIs regular research bud-
get. Any excess storage space would be used for foundation seed.



- 17 -
4.11      Supervision of Seed Production ($0.5 million - Annex 1, Table 2).
Teams from six FCRIs (the five listed in para. 4.10, plus Sukamandi) would
visit each PSF producing foundation seed two or three times each season, to
supervise field production and roguing (removal of other varieties), to ensure
that standards were met. The project would finance these teams' travel,
subsistence, and honoraria over five years. The project would also finance
DPD staff salaries and travel for supervising PSFs and private seed growers.
4.12      Investment in PSFs ($2.2 million - Annex 1, Table 3).  GOI policy
calls for one Central PSF each for rice and palawija crops, in every province,
to produce foundation seed. As the area required for foundation seed is very
small, they would produce stock seed as well, although this could also be
grown, as necessary, by one or two Main PSFs in each province. DGFCA has
established reasonable standards for developing, equipping and staffing
Central and Main PSFs. Site selection consultants examined Central and
Main PSFs proposed for the initial year of the project, and on the basis of
their report, 25 PSFs were agreed at negotiations. At negotiations, an
assurance was obtained that DGFCA would send to the Bank for comment by
August 31 of each year, the list of PSFs proposed to be upgraded the follow-
ing year, supported by site selection studies and investment plans. About 15
PSFs are expected to be selected for upgrading in 1983, and few, if any,
thereafter.
4.13      The project would finance only civil works for the PSFs - irri-
gation/drainage improvements, drying floors, storage, workshops, staff hous-
ing and other buildings. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that
DGFCA would ensure the timely completion of its ongoing program of providing
seed production and processing equipment (to meet its own standards) for all
PSFs being upgraded under the project. Most of the imported equipment is
being provided under bilateral Japanese (OECF) aid; the third grant for this
was signed in January 1981. GOI itself is financing the local costs of the
imports, as well as equipment being procured locally or from third
countries. About seven of the PSFs would handle significant amounts of
groundnut and soybean foundation seed, and would be provided with air
conditioning units to keep the storage temperature down to 18-200C and the
humidity around 50%, so that this seed could be kept up to 12-18 months.
4.14      To meet the extension seed targets in the 12 provinces, about
130 ha would be needed for foundation seed production, and 1,230 ha for
stock seed (Table 6.2). Groundnuts would require most of the land because
of their low multiplication ratio. About half of the foundation and stock
seed for wetland rice would be grown by PSFs, and the remainder by NSC at
Sukamandi, as NSC has good facilities and experience for this. All the
foundation-seed for the other crops would be grown on PSFs (or by NSC at
Sukamandi). The same would be true for stock seed of dryland rice, maize
and mungbeans. However, as the Main PSFs would not have enough suitable
land to grow all the groundnut and soybean stock seed needed, this would be
done largely by private growers, on contract to NSC. The total PSF cropped
area needed for project extension seed would be some 300 ha. With full



- 18 -
technical irrigation, the cropping intensity would be close to 200% and
and about 170 ha would be adequate. An additional 100 ha would be upgraded
for other crops, field trials, stock seed to be sold to private growers, etc.
4.15      Processing Centers ($14.6 million - Annex 1, Tables 4a and 4b).
The 18 medium-size processing centers to be built by NSC, P.T. Pertani and
PUSKUDs would have capacities of 1-2,000 tons/year of seed each (compared to
10,000 tons/year capacity at Sukamandi). Each would contain 2-3,000 sq m
for processing and storage, plus two staff houses. Bag driers with 40 tons/
day capacity would be supplemented by an outdoor drying floor. There would
be seed cleaning machines (para. 6.09), threshers, seed treaters and bagging
machines. The processing machinery would be connected by conveyors and
elevators, to ensure smooth seed flow. The six small KUD processing centers
would have very simple equipment with capacity of 100-200 tons/year. Sites
for three NSC processing centers (two in Central Java and one in Yogyakarta)
and one P.T. Pertani center (in West Nusa Tenggara) to be constructed in
1982 /1 were agreed at negotiations based on site selection studies. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that DGFCA would, by August 31 each
year, send to the Bank for approval proposals for the processing centers to
be developed the following year, supported by site selection studies and
investment plans.
4.16      Additional facilities would also be provided for existing centers.
At Sukamandi, 4,000 sq m of fertilizer storage would be ugpraded for seed
storage, a 4,000 sq m drying floor would be added to reduce fuel consumption
and help cope with peak loads, and processing equipment would be procured to
deal with small quantities of rice seed (so that several varieties/grades
could be processed simultaneously) and with palawija seed.  At Klaten, 1,000
sq m of seed storage would be added, along with a drying floor and minor
equipment.  Additional equipment for palawija seed and storage space would
be added to processing centers owned by the East Java DPD.  At negotiations,
an assurance was obtained that NSC would be allowed to operate these centers
for at least ten years, to help ensure that project investment in them is
utilized adequately.
4.17      Vehicles ($2.6 million - Annex 1, Table 5).  NSC would require
trucks to carry the crops from its contract growers and the seed to its
dealers, four-wheel drive vehicles for its provincial production and market-
ing managers, and motorcycles for its marketing staff and processing center
field staff.  P.T. Pertani and the cooperatives would also need vehicles for
their processing centers. The SCCS and DPDs would need motorcycles for
their field and seed inspectors, and four-wheel drive vehicles for
provincial supervisors. Sedans would be supplied for the consultants.
4.18      Incremental Working Capital ($6.4 million - Annex 1, Table 6).
NSC, P.T. Pertani and the cooperatives would need working capital to finance
their grain purchases (from contract growers) and operating expenses, until
they sell the seed. NSC and the PSFs would also need small amounts of work-
ing capital for foundation and stock seed. Project costs include the
/1 A second P.T. Pertani center would be built in Bali in 1982 if a
suitable site were found.



- 19 -
average working capital needed at full development. This was based on seven
months between purchase from contract growers and income from sale for rice
and maize, and four months for the other crops (para. 6.05), including an
average of one month's credit from the processors to their dealers. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that adequate working capital would be
provided to NSC, P.T. Pertani and the cooperatives. NSC and P.T. Pertani
would be given equity for their average needs, and would borrow from Bank
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)/1 on a normal commercial basis for peak requirements.
Cooperatives would get GOI-guaranteed loans from BRI, at subsidized ates, for
working capital. A major task of NSC, P.T. Pertani and cooperative management
would be to schedule seed production and arrange marketing so as to keep down
working capital requirements.
4.19      Equipment and Incremental Operating Expenses for SCCS
($0.6 million - Annex 1, Tables 7 and 8). The proposed project would more
than double the area and seed quantity SCCS would have to inspect, and would
diversify its work into palawija. Existing SCCS laboratories (generally one
per province) would need more staff and equipment, and small laboratories
would be established in other provinces. Additional staff would be provided
for field and market inspection as well. Project costs include these
incremental operating expenses over five years.
4.20      Training ($1.3 million - Annex 1, Tables 9a and 9b).  Emphasis would
be on building up seed technology training capacity, including but not limited
to project requirements. The project would finance a 2-year diploma course at
IPB in seed technology /2 for about 25 students per year to help meet the need
for senior seed production and certification staff in the project implementing
agencies, the Directorates General of Forestry and Estates, and the private
sector. Shorter programs (6-12 months) would also be arranged for staff who
could not be made available for the full two years. Students would include
recent agricultural high school graduates, as well as existing employees being
trained for more responsible positions (such as managers of processing
centers, PSFs, and SCCS provincial offices). IPB, in consultation with DGFCA,
would select the students. Finance would be provided for buildings and
utilities, teaching laboratories, processing equipment, storage, and operating
costs, at a new IPB complex near Bogor, as well as for about seven man-years
of graduate training overseas for the IPB teaching staff involved.
4.21      NSC, P.T. Pertani and the cooperatives would also need expanded
training for junior staff and specialized personnel. An NSC training manager
would determine training needs, set up in-service courses at processing
/1  A GOI-owned commercial bank specializing in the agricultural sector,
and involved in many Bank-financed projects. Working capital for the PSFs
would come from GOI; revenue from sale of stock and foundation seed would
all go to the provincial governments. GOI would guarantee the loans to
NSC and P.T. Pertani, while the Cooperative Guarantee Fund (LJKK) would
guarantee the cooperatives' loans.
/2 Which is now taught only as part of the degree program in agronomy.



- 20 -
centers (during slack periods), and help select staff to be trained.
Training on the operation and maintenance of seed processing equipment would
be conducted through contract by the equipment suppliers. SCCS would also
expand its on-the-job training program for seed inspectors and laboratory
technicians, especially for palawija. Training of PSF and DPD staff would be
planned and undertaken by the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension in MOA. Brief study tours might be made, especially to Thailand, to
look at progress in palawija seed development. Project costs include all of
these training programs. The project training consultant (para. 4.22) would
help review the training requirements and programs for all agencies concerned.
4.22      Technical Assistance ($2.0 million - Annex 1, Table 10).  About
200 man-months of technical assistance would be provided to DGFCA and 50 man-
months to IPB. The average man-month cost for consultants supplied by an
international firm, including salary, costs, fees, international travel,
housing and subsistence, is expected to be about $7,300. Total cost of
$8,000/man-month also includes local travel and other expenses. The DGFCA
consultancy (para. 5.18), which would include overall strengthening of project
implementing agencies, would be in (a) project management, (b) finance and
management information, (c) training, (d) seed marketing, (e) seed
processing, and (f) seed production. The assistance to IPB would be to
start the diploma-level seeds course before the regular IPB staff returned
from overseas training (para. 4.20). At negotiations, an assurance was
obtained that consultants with qualifications and experience and on terms
acceptable to the Bank, would be appointed by May 31, 1982, for DGFCA,
and qualified instructors by June 30, 1983, for IPB.
4.23      Studies and Pilot Activities ($1.3 million - Annex 1, Table 11).
The project would finance and DGFCA would supervise studies of (a) seed
marketing and distribution, (b) the benefits from using improved seed, (c)
seed treatment, (d) project site selection for the latter years of implemen-
tation, and (e) the potential private and cooperative sector roles in seed
processing. Draft terms of reference are in Annex 7. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that consultants to design and carry out or supervise
studies (b), (c) and (e) would be selected by DGFCA, with qualifications and
experience and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, by December 31,
1982, and that results of the five studies would be reviewed with the Bank.
Study (a) would be designed and supervised by the marketing consultant, while
study (d) would be required for annual Bank approval of the following year s
investment program (para. 4.15).
4.24      The seed marketing and distribution study would aim to determine
the existing patterns of seed supply, demand and movement, and farmers'
willingness to pay more for better seed. It would help determine the pace
at which GOI introduces economic pricing (para. 7.05), and the seed
processors marketing strategy. In addition, it would examine the quality
and timeliness of seed packages supplied to transmigrants, and recommend any
improvements necessary in the seed supply system to these areas.



- 21 -
4.25      It is difficult to measure increased output due to better seed
quality (as opposed to improved variety), because the impact of this factor is
small compared to that of other variables (weather, pest and disease attacks,
fertilizer usage, varietal change). Controlled experiments are therefore
needed, whereby random samples of certified, regulated and nonregulated seed
are planted in adjacent plots and managed identically. Such research, which
would be new in Indonesia, might also give farmers evidence of the benefits of
improved seed. DPDs would carry out such experiments with FCRI technical
support, supplemented by laboratory analysis of the samples by SCCS to help
understand the reasons for any yield differences.
4.26      Seed treatment (coating with insecticides, fungicides or other chem-
icals) can be effective against a variety of problems. While the FCRIs keep
track of international research on seed treatment, and do some experiments of
their own, Indonesia's seed industry is reaching the stage where commercial
seed treatment may be feasible. The project would finance field trials of a
number of seed treatments at PSFs, with FCRI assistance.
4.27      Although private and cooperative sector seed processing have been
minimal to date, the introduction of economic seed pricing is expected to make
this more attractive. The study would interview a sample of both existing and
potential processors (seed dealers, grain millers, and large seed growers) to
determine their capabilities, interests and needs for producing certified or
regulated seed. It would also examine the technical, managerial and financial
capability of the PUSKUDs in East and Central Java, and recommend whether and
when they would be able to operate seed processing centers, and what organiza-
tion arrangements would be desirable (e.g., role for KUDs, support from NSC).
Funds would also be provided for pilot activities (e.g., credit, technical
assistance, training, marketing support) arising from the study's findings, to
be agreed between DGFCA and the Bank.
Phasing
4.28      Investments in PSFs would be primarily in years one and two, because
of the lead time needed to multiply foundation and stock seed. The seed
processing centers would be phased over four years. The main constraints
on the pace of implementation are (a) recruitment and training of qualified
staff, and (b) development of marketing networks and of farmers' willingness
to purchase improved seed. Three centers for NSC and two for P.T. Pertani
are expected to be constructed in each of the first two years (1982 and 1983).
The PUSKUD centers would be built in years three and four, and the six small
KUD centers in years two, three and four. Each center would reach full
capacity around its third year of operation, so working capital requirements
would increase until project year seven. Project costs include incremental
operating expenses for FCRI, DPDs, SCCS and training courses over five years
to allow for a full year after the scheduled completion of investments.



- 22 -
Cost Estimates
4.29      Total project cost (Table 4.1) is estimated at $50.0 million
(Rp 31.3 billion), of which $17.3 million (35%) is foreign exchange. Unit
costs are in July 1981 prices, and were derived from data gathered during
appraisal in May 1980, updated for estimated inflation (18% p.a. local and
9% p.a. foreign) until July 1981. Physical contingencies of 10% have been
added for all investment items. Expected price increases amount to 47% of
total base costs plus physical contingencies, assuming inflation rates of
18% p.a. for local costs in calendar 1981, 14% p.a. in 1982 and 10% p.a.
thereafter, and 9% p.a. for foreign exchange costs in 1981, 8.5% p.a. in
1982, 7.5% p.a. in 1983-85 and 6% p.a. thereafter, and assuming the
disbursement schedule of Annex 3 (para. 4.34).
Financing
4.30      The proposed Bank loan of $15.0 million would be for the full
foreign exchange cost of the project, excluding vehicles (para. 4.32). Of
the remaining $35.0 million, the investment and working capital for
cooperatives, $5.7 million, would be GOI-guaranteed credit from BRI at
subsidized rates (now 6% p.a.), and $29.3 million would be financed by GOI.
At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that Bank and GOI investment
funds for NSC and P.T. Pertani would be passed on by GOI as equity
contributions, to reestablish NSC's and P.T. Pertani's equity bases and
reduce the need for further subsidies, and for the cooperatives as credits
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement
4.31      Seed processing, storage and laboratory equipment (8.4 million),/l
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost
or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufac-
turers in the evaluation of bids. To promote standardization of equipment,
obtain more competitive bids, and reduce the procurement burden and risk of
delays, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that to the extent
feasible, all equipment for NSC, P.T. Pertani and PUSKUD processing centers
for the first two years would be in one contract,/2 and for the remaining two
years in another.
4.32      Local procurement procedures would be used for:  (a) buildings and
other civil works ($17.3 million), which are not suitable for ICB because they
are scattered and involve relatively small amounts of financing spread over
four years, and for which local contractor capacity is adequate; (b) equipment
/1 Including price and physical contingencies.
/2 Contracts for certain items, such as mobile threshers or locally-made
driers, could be awarded separately, but the main processing/packaging
line would need to be in a single contract.



Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
% of
Local   Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign  Total    % Foreign    Base
(Rp billion)              ---- (US$ million)-----        exchange    cost
Investment
a.  Breeder Seed Storage                             -         0.1      0.1       -         0.1    0.1          90            -
b.  Provincial Seed Farms                            1.0       0.4      1.4       1.6       0.6    2.2          25             7
c.  Seed Processing Centers                          4.6       4.6      9.2       7.3       7.3   14.6          50           46
d.  Vehicles                                         0.6       1.0      1.6       1.0       1.6    2.6          60             8
e.  Laboratory Equipment (SCCS)                      -         0.1      0.1       -         0.2    0.2          90             1
f.  Training                                         0.6       0.2     0.8       0.9        0.4    1.3          30             4
g.  Technical Assistance                             0.4       0.8      1.2       0.7       1.3    2.0          65             6        1
h.  Studies and Pilot Activities                     0.4       0.4      0.8       0.7       0.6    1.3          45             4       s
Subtotal                                 7.6       7.6    15.2       12.2      12.1   24.3          50           77
Incremental Operating Costs
(over 5 years)
a.  Supervision of Seed Production                   0.3       -        0.3      0.5        -       0.5          -             2
b.  Seed Certification                               0.3       -        0.3       0.4       -       0.4          -             1
Subtotal                                 0.6       -       0.6       0.9       -       0.9           -             3
Incremental Working Capital                          4.0       -        4.0      6.4        -       6.4          -            20
Total Base Cost                                     12.2       7.6    19.8       19.5      12.1   31.6          38           100
Physical Contingencies                               0.8       0.7      1.5       1.2       1.2    2.4          54             8
Expected Price Increases                             7.5       2.5    10.0       12.0       4.0   16.0          25            50
Total Expected Project Cost                         20.5      10.8    31.3      32.7       17.3   50.0          35           158



- 24 -
and supplies contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, up to an
aggregate of $500,000; and (c) vehicles ($4.3 million), which are regarded as
"reserved procurement," not eligible for financing or disbursement under the
loan. Because of the scattered locations, a civil works contract would be
awarded separately for each site, based on standard designs. At negotiations
an assurance was obtained that, to the extent feasible, civil works for each
site would be grouped and procured under a single contract. The remaining
costs ($19.5 million) are for working capital, operating expenses, training,
studies, and consultants.
4.33      Bidding documents for equipment contracts under ICB, and for civil
works for the first NSC, P.T. Pertani and PUSKUD processing centers, would be
reviewed by the Bank before issuance.
Disbursement
4.34      Disbursements would be made at:  (a) 20% for civil works contracts
for processing centers; (b) for equipment, 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly
imported items, 95% of the ex-factory price of locally-manufactured items, and
65% of expenditure on imported but locallyprocured items; and (c) 100% for
technical assistance, training and studies. Disbursements would be made
against full documentation, except that statements of expenditure (Annex 8)
would be used for operating expenses of training courses and for studies
(excluding consultancy). No disbursements would be made for other operating
costs, or working capital. The project allocation of loan proceeds is in
Annex 2. The estimated schedule of disbursements in Annex 3 is based on the
disbursement profiles of previous agricultural projects in the region.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.
Accounts and Audit
4.35      An assurance was obtained during negotiations that (a) separate
accounts would be maintained to record all project transactions, (b) NSC's,
P.T. Pertani's and participating cooperatives' overall financial statements
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and (c) these
audited accounts and the audit report would be submitted to the Bank within
nine months after the end of each fiscal year. The State Auditor, who was
used under Seeds I, is expected to do the auditing of NSC and P.T. Pertani.
Audit arrangements for participating cooperatives would be reviewed by the
Bank and GOI.
4.36      The last year for which P.T. Pertani has audited accounts is 1975,
although some progress has been made by the State Auditor on the 1976-78
accounts. At negotiations an assurance was obtained that the audits of
P.T. Pertani's 1976-80 accounts would be completed by September 30, 1982. As
a condition of disbursement for the four P.T. Pertani processing centers to
be constructed in 1983 and thereafter, the Bank would have to be satisfied,
on the basis of those audits, that P.T. Pertani could carry out its role in
the project satisfactorily.



- 25 -
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
Seeds Policy Formulation
5.01      In 1971, the National Seeds Board /1 was created to advise the
Minister of Agriculture on seeds policy, coordinate the agencies concerned,
evaluate new varieties for release, and propose seed certification standards.
The policy making and coordination roles have in practice been left primarily
to DGFCA, and the full Board has seldom met. However, it has two well-func-
tioning committees, on varietal release and seed certification, upon whose
advice the Minister of Agriculture acts in those matters.
Overall Seeds II Project Management
5.02      DGFCA, NSC, P.T. Pertani, the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD, for the FCRIs), the Directorate General of Cooperatives
(DGC) and IPB would implement the project, with overall responsibility with
the Director General for Food Crops Agriculture. The Director of Production
in DGFCA has been named part-time Seeds II Project Manager. A small Project
Secretariat in his office would plan, coordinate and supervise Seeds II
implementation, including procurement, disbursement, monitoring, evaluation
and reporting, and would liaise with representatives from the various imple-
menting agencies. This Secretariat has been established, and a full-time
Project Secretary appointed to head it.
Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture (DGFCA)
5.03      Subdirectorate of Seed Production.  Within DGFCA's Directorate of
Production, two subdirectorates deal with seeds: Seed Production (SSP) and
the SCCS (see Chart 21989). The former has so far concentrated primarily on
coordinating the production and distribution of rice foundation seed and, more
recently, stock seed, and would supervise and coordinate the PSFs role in the
proposed project. Under the project, the SSP would determine the varieties
and quantities of foundation and stock seed to be produced, in close
coordination with the DPDs and other agencies concerned.
5.04      SCCS.  SCCS's four sections deal with varietal evaluation,
laboratory analysis, seed certification, and marketing control; the latter two
operate down to the district (kabupaten) level.  SCCS also assists the
Directorates General of Forestry and Estates with laboratory inspection of
/1 Originally representing DGFCA, NSC, the FCRIs, Bank Indonesia, BAPPENAS,
and the Ministries of Finance, Trade, Home Affairs and Cooperatives.
The Directorates General of Estates and Forestry have since been added.



- 26 -
seeds, such as tree species and cover crops.  Under the project, overall
SCCS technical staff would expand from about 100 to 220. SCCS is developing
seed regulation/certification procedures and standards for palawija crops,
assisted by USAID-financed consultancy from Mississippi State University.
5.05      Provincial Seed Farms, which come under the DPDs, vary widely in
facilities, finance and management. Most investment costs of PSFs, as well as
operating costs for foundation and stock seed production, are funded by the
central government, while the provinces finance salaries and commercial seed
production, and receive all revenue from seed sale. At negotiations, an
assurance was obtained that a duly qualified and experienced manager would
be employed at each participating PSF. This would mean at least a Level III
civil servant to manage each Central PSF, and an upper Level II civil servant
for each Main PSF.
National Seeds Corporation (NSC)
5.06      Management.  NSC is a Perum, a Government corporation operating
under the commercial code. It is responsible to the Minister of Agriculture,
through the DGFCA on technical matters, through an Assistant to the Minister
on financial questions, and through both regarding management. NSC is run
by a full-time Board of Directors, appointed by the President of Indonesia
for five-year terms, comprising a President-Director and Directors of Finance
and Administration, Production and Processing, and Marketing. The latter two
Directors were just appointed in January 1981, whereas the terms of the other
two expire in August 1981. The Directors would relocate from Sukamandi to
Jakarta, because of NSC's wider coverage under Seeds II. The production,
marketing and financial aspects of the project would be handled by the
respective Directors, while the President-Director would remain responsible
for NSC's overall operation.
5.07      Provincial Organization.  Although NSC wishes ultimately to give
considerable autonomy to Provincial Managers, continued central direction
would be required during Seeds II. At present, Provincial Marketing Managers
report to the Marketing Director, and Seed Center Managers to the Production
Director. Under Seeds II, Regional Production Managers would be appointed to
supervise the Seed Center Managers. As now, the latter would have deputies
for plant operation and for supervision of contract growers.
5.08      Staffing.  NSC is overstaffed at the lower levels, and the conver-
sion of most of the Sukamandi mechanized farm to contract growing would
release about 175 staff, while only some 15 new positions would be required at
Sukamandi to supervise the new contract growers. About 200 people would be
needed for the nine project processing centers plus the four newly-built
ones. Other additions would include, at full development, about 60 staff for



- 27 -
marketing and 20 for the Regional Production Managers offices./l Because
existing NSC staff would be redeployed, the project would increase total NSC
strength from 700 to only about 800. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that an internal auditor (as recommended in the PPAR), a training
manager, and a marketing planning officer would be hired by December 31, 1982.
5.09       Salaries.  NSC staff salaries and benefits have been deteriorating
in real terms since 1976, and are now below those of other state enterprises.
GOI has been unwilling to raise NSC salaries because NSC is losing money;
however, the resultant difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified
staff ultimately harm NSC-s profitability. The situation in P.T. Pertani is
similar. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that necessary steps,
including salary adjustments, would be taken to enable NSC, P.T. Pertani and
participating cooperatives to attract, recruit and retain suitably qualified
and experienced staff.
5.10      Financial Position and Reimbursement for Losses.  NSC has had heavy
losses ($1.3 million in 1979) primarily because of low yields and high costs
on the Sukamandi farm, overstaffing, and the low seed price set by GOI.
Measures to be taken during the project (seed price increases, conversion of
Sukamandi farm to contract operations, and lower administrative costs per kg
seed) are expected to correct this situation. GOI has been meeting NSC's
losses by an annual subsidy, fixed in advance on the basis of NSC's financial
projections. As the seed price has been below direct operating expenses, even
for seed from contract growers, NSC has had a financial disincentive for
expanding output beyond its initial target. As seed yields exceeded
projections in the March/April 1980 wet season harvest, NSC cut back its
contract growing area for the following season, to stay within its budget. To
prevent recurrence of such a situation, agreement were reached during
negotiations that during the interim until NSC's seed prices were raised to
cover full costs (para. 7.06), NSC would, for each crop, receive a fixed
subsidy per kg of seed sold whenever GOI set a seed price below NSC's costs.
This unit subsidy would be set at the beginning of each year, and only
adjusted later for changes outside of NSC-s control, so that NSC would have
incentive to keep its costs down and increase output in response to demand.
The same system would apply to P.T. Pertani.
P.T. Pertani
5.11      Activities.  P.T. Pertani is a GOI agricultural-input supply com-
pany (Persero), headed by a three-man Board of Directors (President Director,
Finance Director and Marketing Director). Its main income (now 58% of its
revenue) is from fertilizer distribution. During the early 1970s, for a
variety of reasons including its own managerial weaknesses, P.T. Pertani
failed to distribute in time much of its fertilizer stock. This led GOI to
/1 As the salaries of all these staff would be costed into the seed price
(para. 7.06), the only provision for it in project costs is as part of
working capital, to cover salary costs before seed sale.



- 28 -
gradually reduce P.T. Pertani-s role in this activity, so that now it is only
one of a number of distributors between P.T. PUSRI-s (the GOI-owned manu-
facturer) depots and cooperative or private retailers. It also caused
P.T. Pertani significant losses, and left it with underutilized storages. As
its second major activity (providing 29% of revenue), P.T Pertani is the
nationwide distributor of pesticides for BIMAS/INMAS and other GOI programs.
P.T. Pertani-s other significant activities are rice milling (8% of revenue),
general trade (2.2%), seed marketing (1.6%) and sale of agricultural machinery
(1.4%).
5.12      Seed Production and Distribution.  Starting in 1977, P.T. Pertani
has often been asked by DGFCA and DPDs to procure, transport and deliver
needed seed not available locally, generally in conjunction with GOI develop-
ment programs, especially transmigration. (P.T. Pertani has been used because
of its network of staff and facilities already existing for fertilizer and
pesticide distribution.) The experience of these P.T. Pertani efforts has
been mixed, as many were crash programs without adequate lead time, and P.T.
Pertani has lacked specialized staff and facilities for seed handling. More
recently, P.T. Pertani has begun pursuing the seed business on its own,
especially in Bali and neighboring West Nusa Tenggara provinces, as part of
its diversification program, using a less developed version of the contract
grower system, and sun-drying and partially cleaning the seed, for sale as
regulated seed.
5.13      Financial Position.  P.T. Pertani has continued to face serious
financial problems since its heavy losses in the early 1970s, and has been
unable to pay off old debts to BRI. A 1979 GOI review team agreed that GOI
would pay off most of this debt, leaving P.T. Pertani to gradually pay off the
rest from profits. Profits, however, have remained quite low. P.T. Pertani-s
financial situation has been complicated by a confusing accounting system, the
absence of audits (para. 4.36), and the shortage of qualified financial staff.
The project financial consultant would help restructure P.T. Pertani's
accounting system and provide on-the-job training to its financial staff.
Cooperatives
5.14      Cooperatives in Indonesia have had a long and checkered history.
In the past few years, however, GOI has undertaken a concerted effort to
strengthen the cooperative system, including the appointment of a Junior
Minister for Cooperatives, construction of cooperative warehouses, establish-
ment of province-level cooperative service centers to assist KUDs, and
training of cooperative staff.
5.15      KUDs.  KUDs currently market about 50% of NSC seed, and almost all
of P.T. Pertani's seed, except that for transmigration areas. Their
performance has been mixed; on average, they have been less likely to pay NSC
on time than have private dealers. GOI policy calls for cooperatives to play
an increasing role supplying agricultural inputs and processing outputs. The
project therefore includes a pilot program to give about six of the best KUDs
in Java, selected by DGC with the agreement of DGFCA, small seed processing
units. Selection criteria would include management, seed marketing
experience, membership, financial status, and availability of technical



- 29 -
support.  Should their performance be satisfactory, more KUDs might be
added during the latter project years.
5.16       PUSKUDs.  To support and assist KUDs, DGC is establishing a
Central Cooperative (PUSKUD) in each province, with the individual KUDs
members of the PUSKUD. So far, the PUSKUDs main role has been as bulk
suppliers of fertilizer to KUDs and of rice (from KUDs) to the National
Logistics Agency (BULOG), but they are starting to undertake agro-processing
as well. The PUSKUDs in East and Central Java are the most developed, and
would be the ones to participate in the project if they were technically
managerially and financially capable, after receiving technical assistance
and training under the project, as well as further assistance from DGC.
At negotiations, an assurance were obtained that GOI would, by August 31,
1983, complete that portion of the study on private and cooperative sector
roles in seed processing (para. 4.27) relating to PUSKUDs, and based on the
results, send to the Bank, for approval, proposals for the ownership,
management and operation of the three seed processing centers for which
qualified PUSKUDs would have priority.
Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs)
5.17       The 1980 MOA reorganization created a Central FCRI in Bogor within
AARD, to supervise and coordinate the eight FCRIs. FCRIs would handle two
project components: air-conditioned breeder seed storage, and technical
supervision of foundation seed production. They would also assist in the
studies of yield increases due to seed quality and seed treatment. The
Central FCRI would coordinate these activities, and channel funds from DGFCA
to the FCRIs involved.
Technical Assistance
5.18       The project would place heavy demands on the implementing agencies,
a number of which still suffer from financial and managerial weaknesses. To
supply efficiently the necessary technical assistance, a team of seven
consultants would be placed for two to three years in DGFCA, attached to the
Project Secretariat, and would be seconded successively to the various
implementing agencies. The consultants would be for:
(a) project management, especially:
(i)  in DGFCA, to advise the Project Secretariat;
(ii)  in NSC, to advise on planning, organizing and staffing for
the project, as well as overall NSC organization and
personnel administration;
(iii)  in DGC, to advise on the selection of cooperatives and on
measures to strengthen their management; and



- 30 -
(iv) in P.T. Pertani, to advise on organization for the project;
(b) finance and management information (two people), especially:
(i) in NSC, to help improve the accounting, management
information, internal control, and financial planning
systems, and to set up a means for determining the average
cost of NSC seed (para. 7.05);
(ii) in P.T. Pertani, to help revise the accounting system,
strengthen overall financial management, prepare accounts to
be audited, and calculate seed production costs;
(iii) in DGFCA's SSP, to establish a nationwide seed production and
distribution data system; an
(iv) in DGC, to help set up project accounts for participating
cooperatives;
(c)  training, to review the project-related training needs of all
the agencies concerned, and help design and select training
programs to meet them;
(d)  marketing, especially:
(i) in NSC to assist in expanding the network of sales represen-
tatives and developing the marketing strategy;
(ii) in DGC, to help review the overall performance and problems
of cooperatives in seed marketing; and
(iii) in DGFCA, to design and supervise the marketing study;
(e)  seed processing, to help set up the new processing centers and
establish quality control measures, in (i) NSC, (ii) P.T.
Pertani, (iii) PUSKUDs, (iv) KUDs, and (iv) Central and Main PSFs;
and
(f)  seed production, especially:
(i) in DGFCA, to advise Central and Main PSFs on technical aspects
of seed production, with particular attention to harvest and
post-harvest handling of palawija and;
(ii) in NSC, to examine the problems in shifting at Sukamandi from
central mechanized production to contract operations or
contract growing.



- 31 -
Draft TORs are in Annex 6. The project would also include two man-years of
short-term, more specialized assistance (e.g. on particular crops), to be
hired with the agreement of the Bank. The consultants should be from a single
firm, for ease of management by DGFCA and to reduce the chance of conflict
among them, provided this can be done without sacrificing quality.
Contract Growers
5.19      Under the project, NSC's existing system of contract growers would
be extended to dryland rice, palawija crops, and other provinces, and would
be adopted by P.T. Pertani and the participating cooperatives as well.
Contract growers would be selected, in groups, and their seed production
scheduled by the seed processors in consultation with the DPDs. Contract
growers would:
(a) be within about 20-25 km of the processing centers, and in large
enough blocks for certification /1 and efficient supervision, with
leader of the group selected as a "contact farmer" to help guide
and organize the others, and serve when needed for communications
between the farmers and seed processor;
(b) be progressive farmers with good crop yields, indicating suitable
land, sound cultivation practices and the absence of serious pest
disease problems; and
(c) have harvest times such that output would be available when needed
for planting with not more than a few months' storage; this might
involve selecting contract growers with differing planting seasons
or transporting seed between districts/provinces.
Evaluation, Monitoring and Reporting
5.20      Monitoring and reporting would be the responsibility of the Project
Secretariat, and would cover: (a) project physical implementation and cost;
(b) seed prices and total sales; (c) seed quality from all sources, as
measured by seed certification results; (d) the processors' overall
production and financial performance; (e) the availability of adequate
breeder, foundation and stock seed; and (f) development of private sector
seed processing. These data would be used by DGFCA and the other agencies,
and summarized in semi-annual reports to the Bank.
5.21      An evaluation officer in the Project Secretariat would coordinate
the study on benefits from seed quality, survey samples of project seed
buyers to learn if they have used less seed (para. 8.02), and try to deter-
mine the extent to which the project is accelerating the distribution of new
varieties.
/1 SCCS requires at least 5 ha in some provinces, and 10 ha in others.



- 32 -
Start-up Implementation Schedule
5.22       DGFCA has now employed a short-term consultant to help prepare
technical specifications for seed processing center equipment. Tender
documents are expected to be sent for Bank approval by January 1982, and
issued the following month. Civil works construction would then take place
during June-December, 1982, with the equipment installed towards the end of
that period. Seed processing would start with the wet season harvest of
February-April, 1983.  Tendering and construction of civil works for the PSFs
to be upgraded in the first year should be able to proceed on a slightly
faster schedule, as standard designs would be used, and no expatriate
consultancy required. In early August, 1981, a short list of six firms was
invited to submit proposals for the long-term project consultancy.
Negotiations with the winning firm or firms is expected to commence by
December, 1981, so that the May 31, 1982, deadline for appointment of the
consultants (para. 4.22) would be met.
5.23       GOI's FY82 budget includes provision for (a) the site selection
study ($140,000), short-term consultancy to prepare tender specifications
($100,000), and start-up of the long-term consultancy ($250,000), all of
which would be reimbursed by the Bank; (b) transport and installation of the
Japanese-supplied equipment for PSFs (Rp 300 million - para. 4.13); and
(c) travel costs for Seeds II preparation (Rp 14 million). No further funds
would be needed in FY82.



- 33 -
6. PRODUCTION AND TECHNOLOGY
Seed Yields and Production
6.01      Inputs.  To maximize seed yields, PSFs and contract growers would
need adequate fertilization, good water management, careful weeding, and
pest and disease control. Minimal fertilizer rates would be the general
BIMAS recommendations: 200 kg/ha urea and 100 kg/ha triple-superphosphate
(TSP) for rice and maize, and 50 kg/ha urea /1 and 100 kg/ha TSP for
soybeans, groundnuts, and mungbeans. Assistance from the Soil Research
Institute would be sought to determine whether higher levels were advisable
in some localities. One-two liter/ha of pesticide would also be required.
Labor inputs would be the same as for regular crop production, plus about
10 man-days/ha for field roguing to meet varietal purity standards.
6.02      Yields.  Yields of foundation, stock and extension seed would vary
by season and location; Table 6.1 shows the averages expected.
Table 6.1: EXPECTED SEED YIELDS
Seed rate              Seed yield (tons/ha)
(kg/ha)       Dry grain (13% m.c.)   Clean seed /a
Wetland rice                    25                   3.4                 2.4
Dryland rice                    40                   2.0                 1.4
Maize                           25                   1.8                 1.3
Soybean                         35                   1.2                 0.8
Groundnut (in shell)           120                   1.6                 1.1
Mungbean                        20                   0.7                 0.5
/a Assuming 10% of area rejected for seed, 10% weight loss due to further
drying and removal of inert matter, and 10% consumption grain separated
out by seed cleaner.
The estimated wetland rice yield is the present national average. Expected
yields for other crops are about 30% above present averages, because good
areas would be chosen, adequate inputs would be used (except for wetland
rice, most farmers use little fertilizer or agrochemicals), and higher
yielding varieties would be grown. Foundation and stock seed would be of
released varieties, except for restricted pre-release planting in preparation
for rapid multiplication after official release.
/1 This might be reduced if further research in Indonesia develops suitable
rhizobia (bacteria) inoculants to enhance these crops' nitrogen-fixing.



- 34 -
6.03      Area and Production.  At full development, the total seed areas and
production for the twelve provinces would be as shown in Table 6.2.
Table 6.2: SEED AREA AND PRODUCTION TARGETS FOR TWELVE PROVINCES
Foundation seed /a   Stock seed /b    Extension seed /c
ha    ton          ha   ton           ha      ton
Wetland rice        1.2    2.7           53    130       3,420   8,200
Dryland rice        4.3    6.1          118    165       3,390   4,750
Maize               1.7    2.3           70     90       3,080   4,000
Soybean            11.8    9.7          206    165       3,940   3,150
Groundnut (in
shell)           108.2  119.0         762    840        5,820   6,400
Mungbean            1.1    0.6           22     22         880      440
Total        128.3  140.4       1,231  1,412       20,530  26,940
/a  Assumes 100% excess production for wetland rice, and 40% for
other crops, as not all varieties may be in demand.
/b  Assumes 60% excess production for wetland rice, and 30% for
other crops, including allowance for seed for private growers.
Ic  Based on projected demand (paras. 7.01-7.04).
Seasonal Cropping Patterns
6.04      Optimal seasonal timing of seed production is important to
(a) minimize the period needed for multiplication from breeder to extension
seed, (b) make maximal use of the PSFs' land, (c) minimize working capital
costs and (d) ensure that the seed is planted while its viability is high.
The Subdirectorate for Seed Production would be responsible for planning this.
6.05      Most wetland rice is planted in November/December, for the wet
season crop, with harvest in March/April. The dry season rice crop is usually
planted a month afterwards, and harvested in August/September. Seed from the
latter harvest can be planted the following wet season, and in the subsequent
dry season as well if properly stored for seven to eight months. Longer
storage is necessary with seed harvested in March/April, as this normally
cannot be ready for planting the following month. Dryland rice is planted
mostly in October and harvested February/March. Maize is grown mainly as a



- 35 -
single crop in upland areas, with the peak harvest December/January. Seed
storage for both crops of seven to nine months is required. For soybeans and
groundnuts, three peak harvesting seasons in Java (April, July and November
for soybeans; April, September and December for groundnuts) reflect different
planting periods in dryland areas and in paddies, and lead to transfer of seed
between dryland and wetland areas and among provinces. Soybeans and ground-
nuts take three to four months until harvest. Mungbeans mature in two months,
so they fit readily into dryland or wetland cropping systems.
Seed Handling and Processing
6.06      Proper crop handling in the field during and after harvest is essen-
tial for good seed quality, especially for soybeans and groundnuts. Crop
handling for seed may be different than for consumption, and must be adjusted
to local circumstances (varieties, weather, distance from processing center).
6.07      The general steps at the processing centers would be threshing
(unless done in the field), precleaning (to remove leaves, stems, dirt, etc.),
drying, cleaning (to remove empty, broken or smaller seeds, as well as foreign
matter) and packing. Rice would be threshed and maize husked before being
precleaned and dried. Soybeans and mungbeans would be removed from the pod
before cleaning, but groundnuts would be kept in the shell until ready to
plant, to prevent seed damage during processing.
6.08      Drying is critical for seed production in the wet tropics.  After
harvest, the moisture content must be reduced rapidly, but without causing
thermal injury, to 12-13% for cereal grains and about 10% for grain legumes,
to avoid spoilage and loss of viability. The seed would be batch-dried in
sacks, to prevent mixing of varieties. Palawija seed would generally be par-
tially dried, cleaned and then dried further, to minimize damage in cleaning.
6.09      The basic seed cleaning would be by an air-screen machine which
separates materials of different size and density by aspiration, sieving and
grading. This would be followed by an indented cylinder for rice and by a
gravity separator for the other crops, for more accurate grading by size or
specific gravity. SCCS would inspect the processing centers periodically for
strict control of seed lot identity and cleanliness of equipment.
Seed Storage
6.10      The high humidity and temperature of the tropics can lead to rapid
seed deterioration through loss of viability and vigor, and infestation by
molds and insects. Rice has relatively good storability, maize intermediate,
and grain legumes poor. Storage facilities at the processing centers and
PSFs would be well ventilated, with seed lots stacked to permit aeration,
and designed to help keep out rodents and birds. Storage pests, such as
weevils, would be fumigated against as required. Packing in sealed plastic
bags would slow down moisture absorption. These measures would permit safe
storage for up to nine months, in temperatures of 20-300C and relative
humidity of 50-60%, for rice or maize, and for three to four months for
grain legumes.



- 36 -
7. MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY
Market for Project Seed
7.01      Farmers may retain seed from their own crop, barter for or purchase
seed from neighbors, or buy it commercially. Farmers generally purchase
seed because:  (a) they wish to change varieties, especially to higher
yielding or pest-resistant strains; (b) they have sold their entire standing
crop; (c) the time between harvest and planting is too long for successful
seed storage; or (d) it is easier than preparing and storing the seed
themselves. In addition, the DPDs advise farmers not to replant progeny of
the same seed for more than three plantings, because varietal purity may
decline due to admixture during planting, harvesting, drying or storing.
7.02      BIMAS/INMAS.  The main regular market for seed produced under
the project would be BIMAS/INMAS farmers, as they purchase inputs. NSC now
supplies 20% of the BIMAS/INMAS market on Java for wetland rice. By 1988,
NSC, P.T. Pertani and project cooperatives would aim to supply 40% of the
BIMAS/INMAS market for wetland rice and 20% for the other crops in the
twelve provinces. Table 7.1 summarizes the projections:
Table 7.1: ESTIMATED ANNUAL BIMAS/INMAS DEMAND FOR PROJECT SEED
Wetland Dryland                   Ground- Mung-
rice    rice    Maize  Soybean   nut   bean   Total
BIMAS/INMAS area in 1980
(12 provinces) (ha -000)   5,580    210  1,175    430    210            60    7,665
BIMAS/INMAS area in
1988 /a (ha  000)            7,060    265  1,485    540       270       80    9,700
Percent buying any seed
(see para. 8.05) (%)              35      35     40      75      80       75         -
Area buying seed (ha  000)   2,470        95    600    405       215      60    3,845
Seed rate (kg/ha)                 25      40     25      35     120       20         -
Total seed demand (ton)       61,800  3,750 15,000 14,200  25,900   1,200  121,850
Demand for NSC,    }
P.T. Pertani and   } (%)          40      20     20      20       20      20         -
cooperatives  seed } (ton)  24,700    750  3,000  2,850   5,200          240   36,740
/a  Assuming 3% p.a. growth, due entirely to INMAS expansion.



- 37 -
7.03       Transmigrants.  Transmigrant families receive up to one ha of food
crop land apiece, on which dryland rice is planted each year, followed by a
mixture of palawija crops. Although P.T. Pertani would be the main supplier
of transmigration seed packages, DPDs would be free to invite any potential
suppliers to tender for the contracts, provided they could meet the seed
quantity, quality and timeliness requirements. After the initial seed
package, the area is supposed to produce its own seed; however, there is
likely to be continued need for seed from outside, because of local failures
in production or storage, or the introduction of new varieties. A rough
estimate is that this would double the demand for seed from outside.  Based
on the Transmigration II farm model, and assuming that 80-85,000 families
per year transmigrated by 1988 (in 1980, 62,000 families were moved), and
that Seeds II supplied 60% of this market (DPDs obtaining unprocessed seed
locally for the remainder), the annual need for project seed by 1988 would
be as follows (Table 7.2):
Table 7.2: ESTIMATED ANNUAL TRANSMIGRATION DEMAND FOR PROJECT SEED
Dryland
rice    Maize   Soybean  Groundnut  Mungbean   Total
Area/family (ha)           1.0      0.4       0.1        0.1         0.1        1.7
Area supplied by
project
(ha  000) /a             100       40        10         10          10        170
Seed rate (kg/ha)           40       25        30        120          20          _
Quantity supplied
(ton)                  4,000   1,000        300      1,200         200      6,750
/a  50,000 seed packages for new transmigrants; 50,000 replacement packages.
7.04       Total.  The combined demand for Seeds II output, at full develop-
ment, is estimated as follows in Table 7.3.



- 38 -
Table 7.3: ESTIMATED ANNUAL TOTAL DEMAND FOR PROJECT SEED
(tons)
Wetland   Dryland                    Ground-  Mung-
rice       rice   Maize  Soybean   nut    bean   Total
BIMAS/INMAS         24,700         750   3,000   2,850   5,200    240   36,740
Transmigrants             -      4,000   1,000       300   1,200    200    6,750
Less NSC output
without
Seeds II         (16,500)/a        -        -        -       -       -  (16,500)
Total demand for
project seed       8,200       4,750   4,000   3,150   6,400    440   26,940
/a NSC's annual production is now about 10,000 tons. The shift to contract
operations at Sukamandi and the development of a further 400 ha there
for seed production would increase NSC's output by about 3,500
tons/annum. The new processing centers in North and West Sumatra and
South Sulawesi would have a further 1,000 tons/year capacity each.
Seed Prices
7.05       GOI has kept the price of NSC rice seed (now Rp 210/kg retail) below
the cost of production /1 to encourage demand (para. 2.11), and covered NSC's
resulting financial losses by an annual equity contribution (para. 7.11). At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that (a) NSC rice seed prices on Java
would be increased annually in real terms so that as soon as feasible and not
later than 1986 their revenue would cover at least their costs, except for
return on investment, and by 1988 would provide at least a 10% return on pro-
ject investment as well, and (b) for rice seed outside Java and for palawija
seed, for which the markets are much less developed, NSC and P.T. Pertani seed
prices would be increased periodically so that as soon as feasible their
revenues would cover their costs, excluding return on investment./2 Table 7.4
shows the cost breakdown for seed production. The marketing study, along with
the demand response to initial price increases, would help determine how
quickly these prices could be achieved. NSC and P.T. Pertani, as commercial
enterprises, should also be allowed flexibility in their seed prices (e.g., to
respond to differences in grain prices or transport costs between provinces).
The cooperatives would set their own prices, but would normally follow NSCGs
lead.
/1 Rp 210/kg covers direct production and marketing costs for seed from
contract growers, but not depreciation, administration, or interest on
working capital; these items now total Rp 50/kg.
/2 A 10% return on investment would require an additional Rp 25/kg seed
price increase.



- 39 -
Table 7.4: SEED PRODUCTION COSTS /a
Rice    Maize   Soybean  Groundnut  Mungbean
--------- (Rp/kg, June 1981 prices) -------
Farmgate price of grain /b         120       100       275        400        330
Premium to growers (10%)            12        10        28         40         33
Cost per kg grain                  132       110       303        440        363
Cost per kg seed /c                165       138       378        550        454
Less:  Consumption grain sold   (12)         (10)      (28)       (40)       (33)
Direct processing cost              38        38        38         38         38
Direct marketing cost               20        30        40         40         40
Depreciation /d                     24        24        24         24         24
Management and admin. /e            12        12        12         12         12
Total cost - wholesale             245       230       465        625        535
Dealers' margin                     20        25        40         40         40
Total cost - retail                265       255       505        665        575
Total cost (retail) plus 10%
return on investment             290       280       530        690        600
/a  Based on NSC costs; P.T. Pertani costs are likely to be somewhat lower
because overheads could be shared by other activities.
/b Dry grain; maize, soybean and mungbean shelled, groundnut unshelled.
/c Assuming 10% weight loss due to further drying and removal of inert
matter, and 10% of grain separated out in cleaning, for consumption.
/d 20 years for buildings, 10 years for equipment, 5 years for vehicles.
/e Currently Rp 30/kg seed, but expected to drop as NSC output rises.
Cost Recovery
7.06       Sale of seed is expected to provide only 30-40% cost recovery.
Cost recovery is not important for the proposed project because: (a) most
beneficiaries would be near or below the critical income level; (b) project
benefits would be widely dispersed and quite small (average $20/ year) for
any single family; and (c) some subsidization may be justified to induce
more farmers to adopt the improved technology, and thus help achieve
national food self-sufficiency.



- 40 -
Marketing and Prices of Crops
7.07      Indonesia's rice imports are expected to remain about 2 million
tons annually for the next decade. Incremental production from project seed
would therefore easily be absorbed locally. The same is true of soybeans,
of which Indonesia now imports some 175,000 tons annually, primarily for
local processing into cake or curd. There is limited growth potential for
maize as a food grain, because it is generally considered inferior to rice,
and there are only some 70,000 tons p.a. of imports to be substituted for.
The poultry feed industry around Jakarta, and the corn meal, flour and oil
mills in East Java, together use at least 300,000 tons of maize per year.
The growth of these industries, which should continue as long as per capita
income keeps rising, would be the key to absorbing incremental maize produc-
tion, as production costs make Indonesia's maize uncompetitive for export.
Indonesia is self-sufficient in groundnuts and mungbeans. Incremental
output would be absorbed by the growth of local demand. Demand for palawija
crops as a group is expected to grow at about 3.5% p.a. over the 1980s./l
7.08      BULOG, the national food procurement agency, stabilizes producer
and consumer prices for rice. It procures 2-5% of rice output mostly via
cooperatives, and imports the equivalent of about 10%. BULOG now purchases
about 1% of the total production of the four project palawija crops, to
support prices and encourage production, and also imports soybeans and
maize. BULOG's support prices for these crops are somewhat below average
farmgate prices,/2 so it only buys when prices are depressed. Market prices
for the grain legumes have stayed within reasonable limits, but maize prices
fluctuate widely.
Farm Incomes of Contract Seed Growers
7.09      Contract growers would increase their incomes from the area used
for seed by 18-30% because they would get both a 10% price premium for the
crop, and higher yields from using stock seed. The additional labor for
roguing would be offset by the reduced labor for drying (which would be done
by the seed processors).  Other inputs and labor requirements would be the
same as for consumption grain production. Average holdings range from
0.5 ha in Java to 1.5 ha in Sumatra; a farmer could grow seeds on all or
part of his holding. Crop budgets are in Annex 9.
/1 "Indonesia: Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops," Report No. 2374-IND
March 3, 1979.
/2 The support and average farmgate prices as of November 1980 were as
follows (in Rp/kg): maize 95 and 100; soybean 240 and 275; groundnut
390 and 400; and mungbean 290 and 330.



- 41 -
8. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits and Beneficiaries
8.01       The project would improve the availability, quality and reliability
of seed of high yielding and pest/disease resistant varieties of rice, maize,
groundnut, soybean and mungbean. The 27,000 tons of extension seed produced
annually under the project at full development would be sufficient to plant
some 330,000 ha/year of wetland rice, 120,000 ha/year of dryland rice,
160,000 ha/year of maize, and 165,000 ha/year of grain legumes. Food crop
holdings in Indonesia average about 0.5 ha of wetland, or 1.0 ha of dryland.
Assuming that half the grain legume seed (but little of the maize) would be
planted in wetlands in rotation with project rice seed, about one million
families would purchase project seed in any given year. About 60% of the
families would be below the absolute poverty line. In addition, some
20,000 families would benefit from being contract growers (Annex 9).
8.02       Rice.  Farmers who plant certified or regulated rice seed produced
by the project would receive the following benefits:
(a)  higher germination percentage - due to more prompt drying (when
harvest is during a rainy or cloudy period), more thorough removal
of empty and broken grains, and proper storage. Guarantee of good
germination permits farmers to sow nurseries with only about
25 kg/ha of seed instead of the average 30 kg/ha, and obtain
sufficient seedlings for transplanting, without loss of yield;
(b)  higher varietal purity - because the contract growers used stock
seed, rogued their fields and did not plant on land where a
different variety had been grown the previous season. Varietal
purity assures more uniform growth and ripening of the grain, as
the maturation period may differ by variety. Furthermore, other
varieties may have undesirable characteristics (e.g. lower yields,
more susceptibility to BPH, or less suitability to the particular
environment). Certified seed averages about 98% varietal purity,
other seed probably 90-93%. Assuming that the other varieties
yield 20-25% less, the higher varietal purity means a 1-2% higher
overall yield; and
(c)  more vigorous growth - because the seed processing removes lighter
and smaller grains, which would germinate but have lower yields.
These generally account for about 10% of the grain before
cleaning; assuming their yield would be 10-20% less than the
full-size seed, the seed processing raises total yield by 1-2%.
The prompt drying and better storage would also increase the
plants' vigor, probably accounting for a further 1% yield
increase.



- 42 -
8.03      The estimated 3-5% higher yield due to varietal purity and more
vigorous growth is based mainly on the theoretical arguments above, as there
is no reliable empirical evidence on this in Indonesia, and little
elsewhere. (The seed quality benefits study would attempt to fill this
gap.) However, similar or higher yield increases have been assumed in other
seeds projects, and virtually all seeds programs in both advanced and less
developed countries include both seed processing and measures to ensure
varietal purity.
8.04      Palawija.  Palawija farmers would also benefit from factors (a),
(b) /1 and (c) above. The percentage gains would generally be higher than
those from rice, because of the much lower quality of palawija seed now
available. Furthermore, as the palawija are sown directly (instead of being
transplanted like rice), high seed rates are now required to overcome low
germination rates. Finally, the project would significantly increase the
overall availability of seed of suitable varieties of palawija (a reasonable
seed multiplication system is already in place for rice).  However, this
last benefit for palawija is difficult to quantify because it depends upon
the rate of development of new varieties, those varieties  yield benefits,
and the degree to which the project would accelerate their distribution to
farmers.
8.05      The rice and maize farmers would on average keep part of their
harvest as seed for two more crops. They would continue to benefit from
higher varietal purity, but not from higher germination rates or more
vigorous growth (which depend upon seed processing). Few of the soybean,
groundnut or mungbean growers would keep their own seed, as the seed would
lose viability between crops.
8.06      Incremental Output, Foreign Exchange Effects and Impact on Food
Availability. Annual incremental food production at full development,
assuming yield increases of 4% for rice (the middle of the 3-5% range
estimated above) and 8% for palawija the first year, and 20% and 15% of
these benefits from rice and maize the following two years (para. 8.05),
would be as shown in Table 8.1. Indonesia is a net rice, maize and soybean
importer, and self-sufficient in groundnuts and mungbeans. Most of the
incremental project output would therefore save foreign exchange, although
some would increase food consumption instead, with nutritional benefits
especially from the protein-rich grain legumes.
/1 In the initial years, some of the seed processed would be from selected
grain rather than pure lines, until enough of the latter was available.



- 43 -
Table 8.1: ANNUAL INCREMENTAL PROJECT BENEFITS AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
Gross value of
Incremental            Economic             incremental
output           farmgate price /a           output
Crop                  (tons)           (Rp/1l:F)  i$itcn)         $ million)
Rice                   63,200            170       272               17.2
Maize                  24,300            127       203                4.9
Soybean                 7,200            232       371                2.7
Groundnut               5,300            232       371                2.0
Mungbean                  900            300       480                0.4
Total               100,900                                        27.2
/a  Average of 1980 and 1990, expressed in constant 1980 prices; see
Annex 11, Table 1.
8.07      Employment Effects.  Approximately 450 permanent jobs would be
directly created by the project in the agencies concerned, and about
6,000 man-years of construction labor would be employed during
implementation. Incremental employment in crop harvesting, due to the
higher yields, would be equivalent to some 4,000 full-time jobs.
8.08      Long-Run Benefits from Seed Industry Development.  By building up
the seed industry, the project would permit other advances in agricultural
technology in Indonesia. For example, hybrid maize varieties can achieve
much higher yield than the open-pollinated maize grown in Indonesia. But as
hybrid maize growers must purchase seed each season, these varieties cannot
be introduced until an efficient maize seed multiplication and distribution
system exists. Similarly, introduction of seed treatment (para. 6.10)
requires a marketing system that assures that the treated seed will be sold
for seed. A strengthened seed industry is also an important support for
the transmigration program, and would provide a base for expanding into
other types of seeds, such as vegetables for home gardens. Finally,
development of institutions and facilities for seed multiplication provides
insurance against pest and disease attacks, as it helps accelerate the
distribution of resistant varieties.
Rate of Return Calculation
8.09      Benefits.  The economic benefit of the project is incremental food
output over the 20-year expected lifetime of the processing centers (the
main project investment). Rice, maize, groundnut and soybean prices used in



- 44 -
the rate of return calculation are based on 1990 world market price projec-
tions (Annex 10, Table 1).  For rice, maize, and soybeans, the import-parity
price was used; for groundnuts, the export-parity price. As mungbeans are not
a major traded commodity, the price is based on projected soybean prices.
Although initial production is expected to come about 18 months after the
main investments in processing centers, a 24-month gap was used to allow for
possible delays.
8.10      Costs.  All project costs for the 12 provinces have been included
in the calculation. The value of equipment being supplied to project PSFs
(para. 4.13) has also been costed, as have been incremental operating costs
(the difference between the costs of producing project seed and nonregulated
seed) and costs of harvesting and drying the incremental output./l Financial
prices for these are adequate approximations to economic prices. A standard
conversion factor of 1.0 has been used, as the official exchange rate of
US$1.00 = Rp 625 is estimated to reflect the value to the economy of foreign
exchange. The estimated economic rate of return is 39%. The economic cost
and benefit streams are in Annex 10.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.11      Cross-over values for yield increases, investment cost, and the
percentage of output that was purchased for seed (instead of for consumption),
based on a 10% opportunity cost of capital, would be as follows:
Table 8.2: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Appraisal   Cross-over  Percentage
Variable                                       value        value       change /a
Combined yield increase rice/palawija (%)   4%/8%         1.7%/3.5%      -58%
Investment cost (Rp billion)                   16.0          68.8       +330%
Proportion of output sold as seed (%)            100%           37%      -63%
/a The percentage change which reduces the net present value to zero.
Increases in investment cost or drops in seed sales of the magnitudes in
this table are very unlikely. Although the yield increases of 4% for rice
and 8% for palawija are only rough estimates, the actual increases are
unlikely to be so low as to endanger project viability. A delay of one year
in project benefits would reduce the rate of return from 39% to 30%.
/1 The value of land used for seed growing is included in the processors'
purchase price of stock and extension seed.



- 45 -
Risks
8.12      NSC Management.  The NSC management's inexperience contributed to
the problems of Seeds I, and Seeds II would extend NSC's responsibility
considerably. To help strengthen NSC, the project provides training,
consultancy, additional staff and any necxssary increases in NSC's salary
structure. Furthermore, two new NSC Directors have recently been
apppointed. Finally, sharply curtailing NSC's mechanized farming at
Sukamandi, and putting NSC on a commercial footing, would reduce some of the
biggest problems it has faced, and provide more incentive for efficient
management. In view of these measures, it is expected that NSC management
could handle its role in the proposed project.
8.13      New Palawija Varieties.  The second project risk is that the FCRIs
would fail to develop adequate new palawija varieties to induce farmer
interest in purchasing better seed, or to achieve the full benefits of the
palawija portion of the project. The considerable investment in the FCRIs
under the two agricultural research projects, including the training of a
number of palawija breeders, reduces this risk to an acceptable level.
Furthermore most project facilities would be flexible enough that they could
be used for whichever crops were in greatest demand.
8.14      Demand for Project Seed.  A third risk is that NSC, P.T. Pertani,
cooperatives and the DPDs would fail to convince enough farmers of the
benefits of paying for certified or regulated seed if it is priced to recover
full costs (para. 7.06). NSC's own marketing has recently been strengthened
by the appointment of a Marketing Director. And the DPDs, which are being
strengthened under the two agricultural extension projects, are expected to
continue to demonstrate and promote better seed, especially as they are being
involved in Seeds II. As certified seed half pays for itself through a lower
seed rate, before even considering the higher yields, and seed is a relatively
minor cost for farmers (comprising only about 10% of the BIMAS package),
effective extension work should minimize the risk of price resistance. As a
final protection against over-investment, the processing center would be
phased over four years. If experience over the next two years, including the
results of the marketing study, raises serious doubts about seed demand, the
last one or two years- investments could be curtailed or re-directed.
Environmental Effects
8.15      The project would have no adverse environmental effects.  In fact,
the multiplication of crop varieties resistant to various pests and diseases
would tend to reduce the need for applying agrochemicals to the crops.
Chemicals used in seed treatment would be relatively non-toxic to animal life,
and at the small quantities applied would have no adverse effects. Treated
seed would be colored to ensure it is not eaten, and any unsold for seed
purposes would be destroyed by the processor.



- 46 -
9. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) NSC would replace no more than two combine harvesters at Sukamandi
(para. 3.10);
(b) DGFCA would, by August 31, of each year, send to the Bank for
comment the list of PSFs proposed to be upgraded the following
year, supported by site selection studies and investment plans
(para. 4.12);
(c) DGFCA would ensure the timely completion of its ongoing program
of providing seed production and processing equipment to all PSFs
being upgraded under the project (para. 4.13);
(d) DGFCA would send to the Bank by August 31 of each year, for
approval, proposals for the seed processing centers to be
developed the following year, supported by site selection studies
and investment plans (para. 4.15);
(e) NSC would be allowed to operate the processing centers owned by
the East Java DPD for at least ten years (para. 4.16);
(f) adequate working capital for the project would be provided to NSC,
P.T. Pertani and participating cooperatives (para. 4.18);
(g)  consultants for DGFCA on (i) project management, (ii) finance and
management information, (iii) training, (iv) seed marketing, (v)
seed processing and (vi) seed production, with qualifications and
experience and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
would be appointed by May 31, 1982 (para. 4.22);
(h) instructors for IPB, to teach seed technology courses, with quali-
fications and experience and on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank, would be appointed by June 30, 1983 (para. 4.22);
(i) consultants to design and carry out or supervise studies of (i)
the potential private and cooperative sector roles in seed
processing, (ii) the benefits from improved seed and (iii) seed
treatment, would be selected, with qualification and experience
and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, by December 31,
1982; results of the five studies (these three plus seed marketing/
distribution and site selection) would be reviewed with the Bank
(para. 4.23);
(j)  Bank and GOI investment funds for NSC and P.T. Pertani would be
passed on by GOI as equity contributions, and for the cooperatives
as credits under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(para. 4.30);



- 47 -
(k) to the extent feasible, all equipment for NSC, P.T. Pertani and
PUSKUD processing centers for the first two years would be in one
contract, and for the remaining two years in another (para. 4.31);
(1) to the extent feasible, civil works for each site would be
grouped and procured under a single contract (para. 4.33);
(m)  (i) separate accounts would be maintained to record all project
transactions, (ii) NSC's, P.T. Pertani-s and participating cooper-
atives overall financial statements would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and (iii) these audited accounts and
the audit report would be submitted to the Bank within nine months
after the end of each financial year (para. 4.35);
(n) audits of P.T. Pertani's 1976-80 accounts would be completed by
September 30, 1982 (para. 4.36);
(o) a duly qualified and experienced manager would be employed at each
participating PSF (para. 5.05);
(p) NSC would hire an internal auditor, a training manager and a
marketing planning officer, by December 31, 1982 (para. 5.08);
(q) necessary steps, including salary adjustments, would be taken to
enable NSC, P.T. Pertani and participating cooperatives to
attract, recruit and retain suitably qualified and experienced
staff (para. 5.09);
(r) in the interim before the full price increases in (t) below, NSC
and P.T. Pertani would, for each crop, receive a fixed subsidy per
kg whenever GOI set a seed price below their production cost
(para. 5.10);
(s) GOI would, by August 31, 1983, complete that portion of the study
on private and cooperative sector roles in seed processing relat-
ing to PUSKUDs, and, based on the results, send to the Bank, for
approval, proposals for the ownership, management and operation
of the three seed processing centers for which qualified PUSKUDs
would have priority (para. 5.16); and
(t) (i) NSC rice seed prices on Java would be increased annually in
real terms so that as soon as feasible and not later than 1986
their revenue would cover at least their costs, except for return
on investment, and by 1988 would provide at least a 10% return on
investment as well; and (ii) for rice outside Java and for
palawija, NSC and P.T. Pertani seed prices would be increased
periodically so that as soon as feasible their revenues would
cover their costs, excluding return on investment (para. 7.05).



- 48 -
9.02       The Bank being satisfied, on the basis of the audits of P.T.
Pertani's 1976-80 accounts, that P.T. Pertani could carry out its role in
the project satisfactorily, would be a condition of disbursement for the P.T.
Pertani processing centers to be constructed in 1983 and thereafter (para.
4.36).
9.03      With the above assurances, documentation and conditions, the
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of $15.0 million. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Indonesia.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
- 49 -
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Breeder Seed Storage /a Costs (FCRIs)
(Rp'000)
Unit cost              Total cost
Cold storeroom /b                   9,375                  46,875
Dehumidifier /c                     1,575                    7,875
Spare parts /d                      1,095                   5,475
Freight /e                          5,420                   27,100
Total                         17,465                  87,325
/a  Installation at 5 FCRIs, all in FY83.
/b  Prebuilt low temperature storeroom with refrigeration system,
capacity 15 tons of seed.
/c  Desiccant-type dehumidifier.
/d  10% of equipment costs.
/e  45% of equipment costs for export crating, shipping and local
transportation.



- 50 -                                     ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Seed Production Supervision Costs
(Rp '000)
FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87      Total
FOUNDATION SEED (FCRIs)
Staff Allowances
Honoraria /a               4,500    4,500    4,500    4,500    4,500    22,500
Subsistence /b             1,000    2,200    2,200    4,500    4,500    14,400
Travel Expenses
Air /c                       500       500    1,000    1,000    1,000         4,000
Road 7d                    3,600    3,600    7,500    7,500    7,500    29,700
Subtotal                9,600   10,800   15,200   17,500   17,500    70,600
STOCK AND EXTENSION SEED (DPDs)
Staff salaries /e           15,000   21,000   27,000   33,300   33,300   129,600
Travel expenses              3,000    4,200    5,400    6,700    6,700    26,000
Subtotal               18,000   25,200   32,400   40,000   40,000   155,600
Total                  27,600   36,000   47,600   57,500   57,500   226,200
/a  15 senior FCRI specialists at Rp 25,000/month.
/b Based on 25 sites at full development; 12 man-days/site/year, Rp 15,000
per diem allowance.
/c Padang/North Sumatera and Jakarta/Lampung, each 6 visits/year at Rp 50,000
from Year 3; also includes provision for senior staff air travel.
/d Average Rp 15,000/day for 25 sites at full development.
/e 40 staff to supervise PSFs (1 apiece), 24 staff to supervise seed growers
(1 per processing center), at Rp 520,000 apiece.



-51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Investment Costs in Provincial Seed Farms
(Rp'000,000)
Arable   Land
area  improve-  Drying   Seed       Other    Staff   Offi-  Work   Miscel-
Seed farm                (ha)    ment    floor   storage  storage  housing   ces   sheds  laneous   Total
Central Java
Kalinyamat             14.9      10.5     4.5      24.0       2.4     13.5    3.0    12.0       4.0      73.9
Winong I                5.4       3.2     2.4      12.0       9.0     14.5    -        -        -        41.1
Winong II               6.5       4.9     3.0      18.0       8.0     12.0    2.2      -        2.0      50.1
Tegalgondo              6.5       -       3.2      12.5      -         -      -       16.0      5.2      36.9
Banyodono /a            9.5       3.0     3.0      21.0      2.4       8.0    4.0      9.0     -         50.4
Humo /a                 7.3       5.0     3.0      15.0      3.6       8.0    6.0    12.0      -         52.6
Yogyakarta
Wonocatur               7.1       6.1     -        13.5      0.9       6.0    8.6      -        1.9      37.0
Wijilan                 9.5      18.9     1.3      21.0      -        10.8    3.4      -        -        55.4
East Java
Sejati                 10.2       0.6     1.7      12.0      -         2.5    3.0    16.0      -         35.8
Blawerejo              15.1      13.6     -        24.0      -        20.0    -       12.0      3.0      72.6
Mardirahardjo           6.5       -       2.0      50.0      -        20.0    -       24.0      -        96.0
Arjasa /a               4.8       -       -        10.0      -         -      -        9.6      -        19.6
Budimurni /a            6.0       5.0     -        10.0      -         -      -        9.6     -         24.6
Sukun /a               10.0      -        -         -        -         -      -       12.0     -         12.0
Mulyoagung /a           5.5       -       3.0       -        -         -       -       9.6      -        12.6
South Kalimantan
Binuang               103.5       8.0     2.5      12.0      -         8.0    -       12.0     2.0       44.5
South Sulawesi
Maros                  10.0      18.9     -         -        -         -      -        -        -        18.9
Batukaropa             51.6      14.8     3.6       7.5      -                -       16.0     2.0       43.9
North Sumatra
Murni                  18.1       9.5     -         -        -         -      -       12.0    10.0       31.5
Tanjung Selamat        16.0       5.0     -         -        -         8.0    6.0    12.0       1.5      32.5
West Sumatra
Sungai Dareh           17.2       -       -         -        -         -      -        -       -          -
Padang Lawas           12.0       -       -         -        -         -      -        -         -        -
Lampung
Tegineneng              8.2       -       1.5       -        -         -      -        8.0      1.5      11.0
Way Jepara              9.5       -       1.5       -        -         -      -        8.0      -         9.5
West Nusa Tenggara
Puyung                 10.3       3.4     3.2       9.0      -         -      -       12.0     -         27.6
Paninjauan             10.0       -       -         -        -         -      -        -       -          -
Total - 26 PSFs  366.2    130.4    39.4    271.5        26.3    131.3   36.2   221.8    33.1        890.0
Total - 40 PSFs            200.0    60.0    420.0       40.0    200.0   55.0   340.0    50.0   1,365.0
/a  Alternative sites proposed in site selection study but not yet finally chosen by GOI.



-52-
ANNEX I
Table 4a
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Investment Costs in New Seed Processing Centers
(Rp million)
Cost per
center        FY83           FY84            FY85           FY86            Total
Medium Size Centers (NSC, P.T. Pertani /a and
PUSKUDs)                                                         (5 centers)   (4 centers)   (5 centers)  (4 centers)   (18 centers)
Site (2 ha)
Land purchase                                         15.0                                                                       270.0
Development                                             5.0                                                                        90.0
Subtotal                                           20.0        100.0           80.0           100.0           80.0            360.0
Buildings and Facilities
Drying floor (1,000 sq m)                             10.0                                                                       180.0
Drying shed, threshing shed (1,000 sq m)              70.0                                                                     1,260.0
Processing building  (300 sq m)                       30.0                                                                       540.0
Seed storage warehouse (800 sq m)                     72.0                                                                     1,296.0
Office, workshop, lab, etc.                           38.0                                                                       684.0
Staff housing (2 people x 100 sq m)                   20.0                                                                       360.0
Subtotal                                         240.0      1,200.0           960.0        1,200.0           960.0         4,320.0
Crop Handling/Processing Equipment
Threshers (4 ton/hr)                                   6.3                                                                       113.4
Dryer units (made locally - 40 ton/day)                6.3                                                                       113.4
Air sieve cleaner (2.5-3 ton/hr)                      12.5                                                                       225.0
Gravity Separator (2-2.5 ton/hr)                       5.6                                                                       100.8
Seed treater (5-8 ton/hr)                              2.5                                                                        45.0
Packaging system - cloth bags                          4.4                                                                        79.2
Packaging system - small plastic bags                  7.5                                                                       135.0
Bag closer                                             0.7                                                                         12.6
Conveyors/elevators                                   12.2                                                                       219.6
Accessories /c                                          8.5                                                                      153.0
Surge bins, fuel tanks (made locally)                  2.9                                                                         52.2
Diesel generator (75 kVA; 10 centers)                 15.6                                                                       280.8
Workshop tools, lab equipment                           4.4                                                                        79.2
Miscellaneous                                           3.1                                                                       55.8
Spare parts (10% of equipment cost)                    8.0                                                                       144.0
Freight (45% of imported items)                       39.6                                                                       712.8
Installation  (15% of equipment cost)                 12.0                                                                       216.0
Subtotal                                          152.1     760.5           608.4          760.5           608.4           2,737.8
Additional Facilities - Maize (6 centers)                       (2 centers)  (2 centers)   (2 centers)
Drying shed and bins                                  30.4                                                         -             182.4
Sheller                                                2.5                                                         -              15.0
Conveyors                                               7.6                                                        -              45.6
Spare parts (10% of equipment cost)                     1.0                                                        -               6.0
Freight and installation                               5.5                                                         -              33.0
Subtotal                                           47.0         94.0           94.0            94.0            -             282.0
Additional Facilities - Groundnut (6 centers)                                  (2 centers)  (2 centers)  (2 centers)
Cleaner                                                4.4          -                                                             26.3
Conveyors                                              2.0          -                                                             12.0
Spare parts (10% of equipment cost)                    0.6          -                                                              3.8
Freight and installation                               3.1          -                                                             18.9
Subtotal                                           10.2          -             20.3            20.4           20.3             61.0
New Cooperative Processing Centers                          -            -        (2 centers)  (2 centers)  (2 centers)    (6 centers)
Building and Facilities
Site development                                       2.0          -                                                             12.0
Drying floor (150 sq m)                                 1.5         -                                                              9.0
Processing/drying  shed (100 sq m)                     6.0          -                                                             36.0
Storage (120 sq m)                                    12.0          -                                                             72.0
Subtotal                                           21.5          -             43.0            43.0           43.0            129.0
Processing Equipment
Mechanical dryer (2 tons/day)                          4.0          -                                                             24.0
Seed cleaner (0.5 tons/hr)                             8.0          -                                                             48.0
Accessories and spare parts                             3.0         -                                                              18.0
Generator (10-12 KVA)                                  6.0          -                                                             36.0
Thresher                                                1.0         -                                                              6.0
Freight and installation                               9.0          -                                                             54.0
Subtotal                                           31.0          -             62.0            62.0           62.0            186.0
Grand Total                                         -       2,154.5         1,867.7        2,279.9         1,773.7         8,075.8
/a P.T. Pertani centers in transmigration provinces and West Nusa Tenggara might be somewhat smaller and less-fully
equipped.



- 53 -                                   ANNEX 1
Table 4b
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Investment Costs in Existing NSC Seed Processing Centers
(Rp-000,000)
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   Total
Sukamandi (West Java)
Buildings and Facilities
Drying floor (4,000 sq m)                       40.0    -        -       -        40.0
Upgrading seed storage (4,000 sq m)            120.0    -        -       -       120.0
Subtotal                                     160.0    -         -      -        160.0
Equipment
Bag dryers (2 x 1 ton/hr)                       24.0    -        -       -        24.0
Air screen cleaners (2)                         25.0    -        -       -        25.0
Indented cylinders (2)                          16.0    -        -       -        16.0
Gravity separators (2)                          11.0    -        -                11.0
Threshers/shellers (4)                           8.0    -        -       -         8.0
Spiral separator for soybeans                    6.0    -        -       -         6.0
Packaging equipment                              4.0    -        -       -         4.0
Accessories                                     13.0    -        -       -        13.0
Forklift                                         6.0    -        -       -         6.0
Miscellaneous                                    5.0    -        -       -         5.0
Spare parts (10% of equipment cost)             11.0    -        -       -        11.0
Freight (45% of imported items)                 45.0    -        -       -        45.0
Installation (15% of equipment cost)            16.0    -        -       -        16.0
Subtotal                                     180.0    -         -       -       180.0
Klaten (Central Java)
Buildings and Facilities
Drying floor (1,000 sq m)                       10.0    -        -       -        10.0
New seed storage (1,000 sq m)                  100.0    -        -       _       100.0
Subtotal                                     110.0    -        -       -       110.0
Equipment
Processing equipment                            25.0    -        -       -        25.0
Freight and installation                        10.0    -        -       -        10.0
Subtotal                                      35.0    -        -       -         35.0
Eight DPD-Owned Centers (East Java)
Buildings and Facilities /a
Drying floors                                   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0         40.0
Seed storage, etc.                              70.0   70.0   70.0   70.0    280.0
Subtotal                                      80.0   80.0   80.0   80.0    320.0
Equipment
Processing equipment                            50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0    200.0
Freight and installation                        20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0         80.0
Subtotal                                      70.0   70.0   70.0   70.0    280.0
Total                                        635.0  150.0  150.0  150.0  1,085.0
/a Two centers in each year.



- 54 -                                ANNEX I
Table 5
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Cost of Vehicles
P.T.                 Consul-         Unit      Total
DPDs  NSC  Pertani  Coops  SCCS   tants  Total  cost         cost
------------------- (Number) -----------------  ---- (Rp'000) ---
Motorcycles
(100 cc)/a   178    48      12      12     102      -     352      600    211,200
Pickups
(1 ton)/b      -    24      12      12       -      -      48   5,900    283,200
Trucks
(3-5 ton)/c    -    50      24      12       -      -      86  10,000    860,000
Station wagons
(4-wheel
drive)/d        -    15      -       -       10     -      37   5,900    218,300
Sedans            -     -       -      -        -     7        7   8,000      56,000
Total                                                                1,628,700
/a Motorcyles - NSC marketing and sales promotion staff; staff supervising pur-
chases from seed growers for processing centers; PSF extension staff assist-
ing supervision of seed production by seed growers; SCCS field inspectors
(80) and seed inspectors (22); DPD Kabupaten staff.
/b  Pickups - two per medium processing center, one per small, plus six for
existing NSC center.
/c Trucks - 4 x 5-ton trucks for NSC interprovincial transport in Java; 4 x
3-ton trucks for each processing center for local transportation (seed col-
lection, delivery, supplies, etc.), and one each for 10 existing centers.
/d Station wagons - NSC provincial production and marketing supervisors; SCCS
provincial seed certification/quality control supervisors; DPD Provincial
staff.
Phasing of Costs
(Rp'000)
FY83        FY84         FY85         FY86      Total cost
Motorcycles             66,000       54,000       48,000       43,200       211,200
Pickups                 82,600       82,600       59,000       59,000      283,200
Trucks                 250,000      250,000      200,000      160,000      860,000
Station wagons           7,700      106,200       77,700       18,700      218,300
Sedans                  56,000            -            -            -        56,000
Total             472,300      492,800      382,700     279,900    1,628,700



ANNEX 1
55 -                                Table 6
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Incremental Working Capital Requirements
Working         Production         Period       Avg. working
capital          at full           working         capital
per kg          development        capital        required
(Rp)           (ton/year)         required      (Rp million)
Extension Seed
Rice                 205             12,950              7 mo.           1,550
Maize                180              4,000              7 mo.             420
Soybeans             410              3,150             4 mo.              430
Groundnuts           570              6,400              4 mo.           1,220
Mungbeans            470                440              4 mo.              70
Subtotal                          26,940                             3,690
Foundation and Stock Seed
Rice                 230                300              7 mo.              40
Maize                220                  90             7 mo.              10
Soybeans             450                175             4 mo.               25
Groundnuts           620                960             4 mo.              200
Mungbeans            520                  25             4 mo.               5
Subtotal                           1,550                               280
Total                             28,490                             3,970
Phasing of Cost (Rp million)
FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
Total                                 500   1,250   2,250   3,250   3,750   3,970
Incremental                           500      750   1,000   1,000       500     220



ANNEX 1
- 56 -                                  Table 7
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Investment Costs for SCCS Laboratories
(Rp'OOO)
FY83     FY84      FY85      FY86     Total
Instruments and analytical
equipment /a                      40,000   22,500          -         -    62,500
Heating/cooling equipment
and furnishings /b                15,000   15,000          -         -    30,000
Supplies /c                         12,500         -   10,000   10,000    32,500
Total                          67,500   37,500   10,000   10,000   125,000
/a Microscopes, moisture testers, balances, scales, germinators, blowers,
dividers, etc.
/b Ovens, refrigerators, air conditioners, cupboards, benches, etc.
/c Desiccators, calculators, seed driers, petri dishes, hand lenses, materials,
etc.



- 57 -                                    ANNEX 1
Table 8
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Incremental Operating Costs for SCCS
(Rp'000)
No.  Annual   ----------- Fiscal Years ------------
by   salary   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    Total
1987
Staff Salaries
Field inspectors           77    625      6,250  15,625  28,125  40,625  48,125
Seed analysts               9    625      1,875   3,750   5,625   5,625   5,625
Laboratory assistants       9    520      1,560   3,120   4,680   4,680   4,680
Seed inspectors            22    520      2,080   4,160   6,240   8,320  11,440
Subtotal                              11,765  26,655  44,670  59,250  69,870  212,210
Rate/
year
Travel
Provincial supervisors    9    300        2,700   2,700   2,700   2,700   2,700
Field inspectors           77    180      1,800   4,500   8,100  11,700  13,860
Seed inspectors            22    180        720   1,440   2,160   2,880   3,960
Subtotal                               5,220   8,640  12,960  17,280  20,520   64,620
Total                                 16,985  35,295  57,630  76,530  90,390  276,830



ANNEX 1
Table 9a
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Training Costs - IPB Diploma Course
(Rp'000)
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    Total
Civil Works
Main building                             65,000        -        -        _        -   65,000
Students' dormitories                     55,250        -        -        -       -   55,250
Processing unit                           27,800        -        -        -        -   27,800
Campus                                    40,000        -        -        -       -   40,000
Power, water installation                 10,000        -        -        -        -   10,000
Field production area                      2,400        -        -        -        -    2,400
Subtotal                            200,450        -        -        -        -  200,450
Machinery and Equipment
Crop handling and drying                       -   7,400         -        -       -    7,400
Processing                                     -  27,500         -        -        -   27,500
Air conditioned storage                        -      750        -        -        -      750
Lab seed testing                               -   9,000         -        -        -    9,000
Power installation                             -   5,000         -        -       -    5,000
Farm machinery                                 -   7,700         -        -       -    7,700
Subtotal                                  -  57,350         -        -        -   57,350
Overseas Fellowships for IPB Staff
postgraduate course                       22,500  22,500   7,500          -        -   52,500
Short courses                             10,000  10,000  10,000          -       -   30,000
Subtotal                             32,500  32,500  17,500          -        -   82,500
Operating Costs (25 students/course)
Teaching staff                                 -        -   3,820   6,920   6,920   17,660
Secretarial staff                              -        -   1,200   1,200   1,200    3,600
Practical courses                              -        -  10,400  26,200  26,200   62,800
Student expenses                               -        -  14,750  29,500  29,500   73,750
Seed production and processing                 -        -   3,525   3,525   3,525   10,575
Subtotal                                   -       -  33,695  67,345  67,345  168,385
Total                               232,950  89,850  51,195  67,345  67,345  508,685



ANNEX 1
- 59 -                                       Table 9b
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Training Costs - In-Service
(Rp'000)
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    Total
NSC
Managers/Asst. Managers (20 people)       3,450   3,450         -        -        -    6,900
Marketing staff (45)                           -   4,370   4,370   4,370          -   13,110
Technical staff (60)                      7,240   7,240   7,240   7,240           -   28,960
On-the-job training (60)                       -   2,100        -   2,100         -    4,200
Subtotal                             10,690  17,160  11,610  13,710          -   53,170
SCCS
Supervisors (20)                          3,450   3,450         -        -        -    6,900
Field inspectors (80)                     9,140   9,140   9,140   9,140           -   36,560
Seed analysis (10)                        5,440        -        -        -        -    5,440
Quality control inspectors,
lab. technicians (30)                   4,420   4,420         -        -        -    8,840
On-the-job training (20)                  9,000         -       -        -        -    9,000
-   Subtotal                             31,450  17,010   9,140   9,140           -   66,740
PSFs
Managers (30)                             4,650   4,650         -        -        -    9,300
Processing supervisors (30)               7,340   7,340         -        -        -   14,680
Field assistants technicians (60)         7,240  14,480   7,240          -        -   28,960
On-the-job training (60)                       -   4,200        -        -        -    4,200
Subtotal                             19,230  30,670   7,240          -       -   57,140
P.T. Pertani
Managers/Asst. Managers (10)                   -   3,450        -        -        -    3,450
Marketing staff (15)                           -   4,370        -        -        -    4,370
Technical staff (30)                      7,240         -   7,240        -        -   14,480
On-the-job training (30)                       -       -   2,100         -        -    2,100
Subtotal                              7,240   7,820   9,340          -       -   24,400
Cooperatives
Managers/Asst. Managers (10)                   -        -   3,450        -        -    3,450
Marketing staff (15)                           -        -   4,370        -        -    4,370
Technical staff (30)                           -   7,240        -   7,240         -   14,480
On-the-job training (30)                       -        -       -   2,100         -    2,100
Subtotal                                  -   7,240   7,820   9,340          -   24,400
DPDs
Provincial level (15)                          -   7,340        -        -        -    7,340
Kabupaten level (150)                     9,300   9,300   9,300   9,300   9,300   46,500
Subtotal                              9,300  16,640   9,300   9,300   9,300   53,840
Study Tours (10 people)
Travel                                         -   1,750        -   1,750         -         -
Subsistence                                    -   2,250        -   2,250         -         -
Subtotal                                   -   4,000         -   4,000        -         -
Training by Equipment Suppliers
Breeder seed storage                      4,570         -       -        -        -    4,570
Processing centers                       27,375        -        -        -        -   27,375
Subtotal                             31,945        -        -        -       -   31,945
Total                               109,855 100,540  54,450  45,490   9,300  319,635



- 60 -                           ANNEX 1
Table 10
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Technical Assistance Costs
($)
Cost per
man-month     Total cost
Consultants - 250 man-months /a
Foreign Exchange Costs
Basic salary                                          2,600          650,000
Social benefits                                         700          175,000
Overseas allowances                                     500          125,000
International travel                                    500          125,000
Mobilization and miscellaneous                          200           50,000
Firm's overheads                                      1,000          250,000
Subtotal                                          5,500        1,375,000
Local Costs
Housing and utilities                                 1,500          375,000
Car operation /b                                        300           75,000
Other internal travel /b                                300           75,000
Per diem                                                300           75,000
Miscellaneous /b                                        100           25,000
Subtotal                                          2,500          625,000
Total                                             8,000        2,000,000
Phasing of Expenditures
FY83      FY84       FY85      FY86        Total
-------------    -( $   O  000)  - ---- _-___
DGFCA                        480        560       320        240         1,600
IPB                          160        160        80          -           400
Total                   640        720       400        240        2,000
/a  200 man-months for DGFCA, 50 man-months for IPB.
/b Not included in calculation of $7,300 man-month cost.



-61 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 11
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Cost of Studies
Consultancy   Consultancy      Other      Total
man-months       cost /a        costs     cost
--------   $'  000
Seed marketing and distribution       10             70            130       200
Private and cooperative
sector processing                   10             70             80       150
Benefits from seed quality             6             42            108       150
Seed treatment                         6             42             78       120
Site selection (years 2-4)            30             90            110       200
Pilot activities                       -              -            500       500
Total            62            314         1,006      1,320
Phasing of Expenditures
FY83     FY84      FY85     FY86       Total
~~~~$ '000
Seed miarketing and distribution      100       100        -         -       200
Private and cooperative
sector processing                    75       75         -         -       150
Benefits from seed quality             45        35       35        35       150
Seed treatment                         35       25        25        35       120
Site selection                        100       50        50                 200
Pilot activities                        -         -      150       350       500
Total            355      285       260      420      1,320
/a  At $7,000/man-month, average of local and foreign consultants, except
$3,000/man-month (local) for site selection.



- 62 -                                   ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Loan
Cost /a      proceeds  Disbursement
---- ($ million) --          rate
(current prices)          (%)
I. Civil Works                                   15.7           2.5
Processsing centers                         12.6          2.5           20
IPB classrooms                               0.3          -             -
PSFs                                         2.8          -              -
II. Equipment                                      8.1           5.3
Processing Centers                           7.6          4.9           /b
IPB                                          0.1          0.1          7
SCCS                                         0.2          0.2           /b
FCRIs                                        0.2          0.1          7
III. Other                                         22.9           5.8
Training courses and fellowships             1.2          1.2          100
Technical Assistance                         2.7          2.7         100
Studies and pilot activities                 1.9          1.9         100
FCRI, DPD and SCCS operating costs           1.5          -              -
Working capital                             11.7
Vehicles                                     3.9          -
IV. Unallocated - Physical                         3.3           1.4
Contingencies
V. Total                                         50.0          15.0
/a Includes price contingencies.
/b 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported items, 95% of the ex-factory
price of locally manufactured items, and 65% of expenditure on imported
but locally-procured items.



- 63 -                                  ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative
Bank Fiscal Year                       disbursements
and Semester                         ($ million)
FY82
Second                                     0.2
FY83
First                                      1.0
Second                                     2.0
FY84
First                                      3.0
Second                                     4.2
FY85
First                                      5.5
Second                                     6.7
FY86
First                                      8.0
Second                                     9.2
FY87
First                                     10.5
Second                                    11.7
FY88
First                                     13.0
Second                                    14.0
FY89
First                                     14.5
Second                                    15.0



INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Foodcrop Area & Production in Project Provinces, 1979 /a
Wetland rice              Dryland rice                    Maize                    Soybean                   Groundnut                  Mungbean
Area    Production        Area    Production         Area    Production        Area      Production        Area    Production          Area    Production
('000 ha) ('000 tons)/b ('000 ha) ('000 tons)/b ('000 ha) ('000 tons)/c ('000 ha) ('000 tons)/c ('000 ha) ('000 tons)/c ('000 ha) ('000 tons)/c
West Java            1,708          5,712          98            149          70             97           25           18            69           63             12          10
Central Java         1,247         4,193           81            113         582           777           171         139            107           98             16           7
East Java            1,338          5,298          60             88       1,099         1,482           375         363            154          127             52          24
Yogyakarta              98            374          16             10          43             53           49          40             32           22              0.9         0.2
South Sulawesi         555          1,646          32             42         239           239            21           11            37           30            46           28
North Sumatra          434          1,369         110            179          39             51           10            9            12           13              4           3
West Sumatra           258            879          16             22           6              8            1            1             5            5              1            1
Riau                    87            197          46             49           6              6            -           -              I            1              2           1
Jambi                  135            347          26             31           2              2            -           -              1            1              0.2         0.1       e
Hali                   166            604          10             12          59             78           11           10            13           14              3           2
West Nusa Tenggara   184              522          15             19          20             22           47          42              6            6            22            7
S. Kalimantan          270            620          28             35           5              4            0.6          0.4           6            5             0.4          0.3
Total Project
Provinces       6,480         21,763          538           799       2,170          2,877          711          633           443          385            159           83
Other Provinces  1,182           3,056          648           732          405           438            53          41             46          33             33           17
Total Indonesia  7,663          24,819        1,186         ],531       2,575          3,305           764         674            489         418            192           0O0
Project Provinces
as % of Total
Indonesia          85%           88%         45%            52%         84%            87%          93%          94%           91%          92%            83%         83%
/a  Provisional figures.
/b  Dry paddy.
/c  Dry shelled.
7T  1978 data.



ANNEX 5
- 65-                                 Table 1
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Existing Field Standards for Certification
Breeder    Foundation         Stock       Extension
seed          seed            seed           seed
Rice
Isolation distance (m)             3             3               3                3
Off-type (%)                       0             0.1             0.3              0.5
Other varieties (%)                0             0.1             0.3              0.5
Noxious weed                       0             0               0                0
Seed-borne disease                0              0               0                0
Soybean
Isolation distance (m)            8              8               8                8
Other varieties                    0             0.1             0.2              0.5
Noxious weed                       0             0               0                0
;laize (hybrid)                          Inbred         Single cross    Double cross
Isolation distance (m)                   400               400              200
Off-type (%)                             0.1               0.1              0.2
Doubtful off-type (%)               2.0 with 5%            2.0              2.0
receptive silk   (male parent)   (male parent)
Parent off-type (%)                                        0.1              0.2
Doubtful parent off-type (%)                               2.0              2.0



66 -                                ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Recommended Field Standards for Certification
Breeder    Foundation       Stock     Extension
seed        seed         seed         seed
Rice
Isolation distance (m) (min.)         3            3           3            3
Other varieties (% max.) /a           0            0.05         0.2         0.3
Maize (open-pollinated)
Isolation distance (m) (ain.)      400          400          400          400
Other varieties and off-types
Plants (% max.)                     0            0.02        0.05         0.1
Ears (max.)                    1 kernel/   1 kernel/   1 kernel/   1 kernel/
20 ears      10 ears      5 ears       2 ears
Soybean
Isolation distance (m) (min.)         3            3           3            3
Other varieties (% max.) /a           0            0.1         0.2           0.4
Groundnut
Isolation distance (m) (min.)         3           3            3            3
Other varieties (% max.) /a           0            0           0.1          0.2
Mungbean
Isolation distance (m) (min.)         3            3           3            3
Other varieties (% max.) /a           0            0.1         0.2          0.4
/a  Does not include variants which are characteristic of the variety, e.g.
off-types that are described in the varietal description and occur with
predictable frequency.



ANNEX 5
- 67-                                   Table 3
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Existing Laboratory Standards for Certification or Regulation
Breeder Foundation Stock Extension Regulated
seed      seed       seed      seed        seed
Rice
Purity (7)                         98        98        98        98           95
Germiaation (A)                     -        80        80        80           60
Other crops seeds including
other varieties (% max.)          0         0         0         4/kg         -
Inert Maater (%)                    2         2         2         2  -         -
Noxious weed (%)                    0.05      0.05      0.05      0.1          2
Moisture content (x.)              13        13        13        13            -
Soybean
Purity (X)                         99        99        98        98           95
Germination (X)                     -        80        80        80           60
Other crops seeds including
other varieties (X max.)          0         0.1       0.2      0.5           -
Inert matter (X)                    1         1         2         2            -
Noxious weed (,)0                             0         0         0            2
doisture content (X)             -14         14        14        14            -
Maize (hybrid)                        Inbred  Single cross  Double cross  Regulated
Purity (Z)                           98          98              98           95
Germination ()                        -          90              90           60
Other crops seeds including
other varieties (X max.)            0           0.2            0.2          -
Inert matter (%)                      1           1               1            -
Noxious weed (%)                      0           0               0            2
Moisture content (%)                 12          12              12            -



-68-                                    ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Recommended Laboratory Standards for Certification or Regulation
Breeder Foundation Stock Extension Regulated
seed        seed      seed      seed        seed
Rice
Purity (% min.)                  98         98         98         97         95
Germination (% min.)            (80)        80         80         80         60
Other varieties (A max.)          0          0.05       0.2        0.3        0.5
Inert matter (% max.)             2          2          2          3          5
Moisture content (% max.)        13         13         13         13         13
Maize (Open-pollinated)
Purity (, min.)                  98         98         98         97         95
Germination (% min.)            (90)        90         90         80         60
Other varieties (% max.)          0.05       0.1        0.2        0.5        1.0
Inert matter (/% max.)            2          2          2          3          5
MIoisture content (% max.)       12         12         12         12         12
Soybean
Purity (% min.)                  98         98         97         97         95
Germination (% min.)            (80)        80         80         70         60
other varieties ('a max.)         0          0.1        0.2        0.4        1.0
Inert matter (% max.)             2          2          3          3          5
Hoisture content (7 max.)        12         12         12         12         12
Groundnut
Purity (% min.)                  97         97         97         97         95
Germination (% min.)            (80)        80         80         75         70
Other varieties (% max.)          0          0          0.1        0.2        0.5
Inert matter (% max.)             3          3          3          3          5
Moisture content (% max.)        10         10         10         10         10
Mungbean
Purity (% min.)                  98         98         97         97         95
Germination (% min.)            (80)        80         80         70         60
Other varieties (% max.)          0          0.1        0.2        0.4        1.0
Inert matter (% max.)             2          2          3          3          5
Moisture content (Z max.)        12         12         12         12         12



ANNEX 6
- 69 -                               Page 1
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants to DGFCA
General
1.        The consultants would be concerned both with the implementation of
the Seeds II Project, and with the overall strengthening of the implementing
agencies. Provision of on-the-job training staff would be a major responsi-
bility of each advisor.  The consultants would all be based in Jakarta, but
would be expected to travel frequently to the project areas. One consultant
- preferably the Project Management Advisor - would serve as team leader,
and would handle administrative arrangements for the team. The team would
contain seven long-term advisors, on: (a) project management, (b) finance
and management information (two people), (c) training, (d) marketing, (e)
seed processing and storage, and (f) seed production. Each would be
appointed for two years, extendable by agreement between DGFCA and the con-
sultants. Preferably the consultants should be from a single firm, provided
this can be done without sacrificing quality. The consultants would be
located in DGFCA, attached to the Project Secretariat, but would be seconded
for extensive periods to NSC, P.T. Pertani, and DGC. The schedule would be
worked out beforehand on a six-monthly basis by the Project Secretariat, in
consultation with the various agencies. Approximate periods with each
agency are given below.
2. Project Management Advisor
(a) DGFCA - 6 months - to advise the Project Coordination Unit on
a wide range of its activities, including:
(i) coordination of schedules, especially between the PSFs
and the seed processors;
(ii) joint procurement of equipment;
(iii) monitoring of project physical progress; and
(iv) reporting to DGFCA and the Bank.
(b) NSC - 12 months - to advise and assist NSC's President Director
and Director of Finance and Administration in the administration
of NSC's commercial operations, including the following:
(i) organization NSC for Seeds II implementation, especially
the division of responsibility between headquarters and the
provinces, and the functioning of the Seeds II Project Unit;



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(ii)  NSC's personnel system, including criteria for staff
evaluation and promotion;
(iii)  staffing levels and salary structure;
(iv)  the system for organization and supervision of contract
growers;
(v)  determination of the number of new processing centers NSC
could satisfactorily staff and manage the following year;
(vi)  in conjunction with the Financial Advisor, design of the
management information system; and
(vii)  alternative methods of operation for the Sukamandi seed
farm.
(c)  DGC - 4 months - to advise DGC and participating corporations on:
(i)  selection of participating cooperatives;
(ii)  measures to strengthen those cooperatives- management;
(iii)  ways to support participating cooperatives (from DGC,
PUSKUDs, or Cooperative Service Centers);
(iv)  organization changes in participating cooperatives; and
(v)  scale of seed processing that participating cooperatives
could adequately manage.
(d)  P.T. Pertani - 2 months - to advise the Board of Directors on
general project implementation matters, including:
(i) organizational responsibilities for Seeds II implementation;
(ii) organization of contract growers; and
(iii) in conjunction with the Financial Advisor, improvement of
the management information system.
Qualifications: A university degree in agriculture, engineering, economics,
business or finance, and at least 10 years experience in business management
or public administration, preferably with agro-industrial activities in
developing countries.



-71-                                        ANNEX 6
Page 3
3. Financial Advisors (two people)
(a)  DGFCA - 6 months - to assist the Project Secretariat in
setting up project accounts, including a system for statements
of expenditure in support of disbursement requests for studies
and training, and to assist the Subdirectorate of Seed Production
in establishing a nationwide seed production and distribution
data system, for rice and palawija, covering:
(i) area and quality of seed, by type and variety, planted
and harvested on all PSFs;
(ii) amount of stock seed or equivalent distributed to DEMBUL,
private seed growers, cooperatives, etc.;
(iii)  on a sample basis, seed harvest and sales by DEMBUL,
private seed growers and cooperatives;
(iv) NSC and P.T. Pertani seed production;
(v) seed prices; and
(vi) inter-provincial seed movement.
(b)  NSC - 18 months - to advise and assist NSC's Director of Finance
and Administration in improving NSC's overall financial system,
especially to meet the new responsibilities of Seeds II, with
particular attention to:
(i) internal control, including the establishment of an
internal audit and the overall adequacy of NSC's
accounting system;
(ii) in conjunction with the Project Management Advisor,
design of the management information system;
(iii) financial aspects of procurement;
(iv) preparation and GOI clearance of annual budgets;
(v) disbursement requests to the Bank;
(vi) the financial implications of alternative methods of
operating the Sukamandi seed farm;
(vii) long range financial planning; and



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
page 4
(viii) calculation of NSC's costs of production, as a basis
for determination of the seed sales price and/or the GOI
subsidy.
(c) P.T. Pertani - 20 months - to assist and advise the Director
of Finance on:
(i)  revision of the accounting system, especially to produce
consolidated accounts;
(ii) preparation of accounts to be audited, including for
previous years;
(iii) overall strengthening of financial management, including
on-the-job training of P.T. Pertani financial staff;
(iv) in conjunction with the Project Management Advisor,
improvement of the management information system;
(v)  financial aspects of procurement; and
(vi) calculation of P.T. Pertani's costs for seed production.
(d) DGC - 4 months - to help set up accounts for participating
cooperatives seed production activities.
Qualifications: A university degree in business or accounting, membership
of a recognized professional accountancy institute (e.g., Institute of
Chartered Accountants or Certified Public Accountants), and at least 7 years'
experience in financial and management accounting, including internal audit,
budgetary control, costing and procurement, including experience in
developing countries.
4. Training Advisor
(a) NSC - 6 months - to review the overall training needs and
existing training programs for NSC staff, and recommend
training programs;
(b) P.T. Pertani - 2 months - to review the training needs for
staff engaged in seed production and distribution, and
recorimend training programs;
(c) DGC - 4 months - to review the training needs and existing
training programs for all staff in the participating
cooperatives and for staff involved in seed marketing
nationwide;



- 73 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 5
(d) DGFCA - 6 months - to review the training needs and existing
training programs for staff in the Subdirectorate of Seed
Production, the SCCS, and PSFs nationwide, and in the private
sector seed industry;
(e) Agency for Agriculture Education, Training and Extension -
3 months - to review the training programs given in seed
production and certification, and to propose any necessary
improvements; and
(f) IPB - 3 mcnths - to review the extent to which IPB's seed
industry training meets the needs of the seeds industry, and
assist in designing the project-financed courses.
Qualifications: A university graduate with substantial training in educa-
tion, and at least 7 years- experience in designing and implementing
training programs, especially for agro-industries in developing countries.
5. Marketing Advisor
(a) NSC - 8 months - to advise NSC's Director of Marketing on
ways to strengthen NSC-s overall marketing system, especially
to cope with the projected increase in sales volume and the
introduction of additional crops and provinces, and in partic-
ular, to review and advise upon:
(i) the location and staffing of district and provincial
marketing offices;
(ii) additional seed transportation and storage facilities in
each district, where required, and whether each should be
purchased or leased;
(iii) a sales promotion strategy that would include use of
exhibits and demonstration plots, cooperation with
provincial extension services, advertising, and
point-of-sale promotion;
(iv)  terms and conitions for seed dealers, including commis-
sions, credit terms, and responsibility for return of
expired seed;
(v) the training needs of marketing staff;
(vi) a system whereby marketing staff would make and use
short-term local demand projections on a continuous basis;
and



ANNEX 6
- 74 -                                   Page 6
(vii) the amount of each type of seed that NSC could sell at
various prices.
(b) DGC - 6 months - to review the overall performance, problems
and needs of cooperatives in seed marketing, including:
(i) availability, need for and use of credit;
(ii) storage and transport facilities;
(iii)  financial and inventory control;
(iv) trained staff; and
(v)  competition.
(c)  P.T. Pertani - 2 months - to advise the Director of Marketing
on seed marketing; and
(d) DGFCA - 8 months - to design and supervise the seed marketing
and distribution study.
Qualifications: A university graduate and marketing specialist with at least
7 years' experience preferably in agro-industries, market research, marketing
methods, sales promotion, distribution, staff training and organization of
marketing.
6. Seed Processing and Storage Advisor
(a) NSC - 10 months - to provide technical advice and assistance
to NSC's Director of Production on the installation and operation
of NSC's new seed processing centers. Specifically, he would
advise and assist in:
(i)  supervision of the installation of machinery and equipment
at new seed processing centers, and ensuring that the
equipment performance is satisfactory;
(ii) examination of the investment needs of existing processing
centers;
(iii)  organization of operations and establishing quality control
measures at seed processing centers, including receiving,
drying, threshing and shelling, cleaning, packaging and
storage;
(iv) planning and implementation of in-service and on-the-job
training programs for managers and technical staff at seed
processing centers;
(v)  the technical aspects of procurement;



ANNEX 6
- 75 -                                Page 7
(vi) coordination of and technical guidance in problem-solving
activities in the field of seed processing and storage; and
(vii) determination of any seed treatment required.
(b) P.T. Pertani - 6 months - to provide to P.T. Pertani similar
technical support as to NSC on its new seed processing centers;
(c) DGC - 5 months
(i) to provide similar technical support to participating
cooperatives; and
(ii) to prepare bid specifications for the KUD processing centers.
(d) DGFCA - 3 months - to provide similar technical support to
Central and Main PSFs.
Qualifications: He would have a university degree or equivalent in
mechanical or production engineering, with at least 7 years' experience,
including at least 3 years experience in the operation of small seed
processing units, preferably under tropical conditions.
7. Seed Production Advisor
(a)  DGFCA - 18 months - responsible to the Head of the Directorate
of Production in DGFCA for technical advice and assistance on
seed production at PSFs and by contract seed growers.
Specifically, he would advise and assist in:
(i) identification of proper cultural and field management
techniques for the production of foundation seed and stock
seed, particularly for secondary crops grown in the project;
(ii) determination of practical guidelines and methods for
harvesting and post-harvest handling of seed crops;
(iii) in-service training of PSF managers and staff in crop
handling techniques suited to the facilities available; and
(iv) review of the technical advice to farmers to change seed
every three plantings.
(b)  NSC - 6 months - (i) to examine the problems involved, and
propose solutions, in shifting from mechanized production to
the use of contract growers at Sukamandi; and (ii) to advise
on seed quality control requirements and harvest/post-harvest
handling of seed crops by contract growers.
Qualifications:  He would be a universty graduate agriculturalist with at
least 7 years' practical experience in the field production and handling of
seed crops of tropical cereals and legume grains.



-76 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Studies
Seed Marketing and Distribution
Objectives: To
(a) determine the quality, existing sources of supply, marketing
channels, wastage, time between harvest and planting, geographic
movement and prices of rice and palawija seed;
(b) find out what seed purchasers are interested in, how much they
know and how they get information about seed availability and
quality, and how much they are willing to pay for improved seed;
(c) estimate the total potential market for improved seed of each
crop;
(d) compare the performance in seed marketing of KUDs and private
dealers;
(e) recommend the pace at which economic seed prices are introduced
for the various crops and provinces;
(f) recommend seed marketing strategies for NSC, P.T. Pertani and
KIIDs; and
(g) determine whether transmigrants are now receiving seed of
suitable quality in a timely fashion, and, if not, what changes
should be made.
Methodology:
(a) From DPDs, seed growers associations, local authorities, etc.,
obtain complete lists of seed producers in selected districts.
(b) Interview a sample of the seed growers.
(c) Interview a sample of farmers, include both seed purchasers and
non-purchasers.
(d) Purchase and inspect samples of seed from dealers.
(e) Discuss with NSC, P.T. Pertani, KUDs and DPDs their role in and
difficulties with seed marketing.
(f) Visit transmigration areas, and inquire of farmers and local
officials concerning seed supply.



- 77 -                                  ANNEX 7
Page 2
Potential Private and Cooperative Sector Roles in Seed Processing
Objectives: To:
(a) determine the extent to which the private and cooperative sectors
currently process seed, their methods, constraints, benefits and
needs;
(b) determine the extent to which other private and cooperative
entities (e.g., seed dealers, grain millers, large seed growers)
are capable of and interested in processing seed to meet
certification standards, and what their constraints and needs are;
(c) propose steps to assist private and cooperative entities to
undertake, expand or upgrade their seed production (e.g., training,
technical assistance, credit, marketing assistance, organization
into groups);
(d) design pilot activities to implement (c) above.
Methodology:
(a) Compile a list of private/cooperative seed growers, seed dealers,
and grain millers (this could be done in cooperation with the
seed marketing study) in selected districts.
(b) Compile a complete list of private/cooperative seed processors in
Indonesia.
(c) Interview a sample of (a) and (b).
(d) Examine the technical and financial feasibility of small seed
processing units suitable for small private or cooperative
processors.
Benefits from Improved Seed
Objectives: To measure the percentage increase in yields resulting
from improved seed quality, for rice and palawija crops, and to determine
the reasons for that increase.
Methodology:
(a) Purchase samples of certified, regulated and nonregulated seed of
each main variety of rice and palawija crops. To help ensure
comparability and randomness, they should be obtained from a
random sample of farmers, shortly before planting time.



-78-                                ANNEX 7
Page 3
(b) Before planting, remove a portion of each seed sample for
laboratory inspection by SCCS. The examination should include
germination rate, time of germination, average seed size and
density, and variation in seed size and density.
(c)  Plant the seed on adjacent plots on a number of PSFs.  The PSF
staff should manage them identically, and should not know which
seed is which.
(d) Harvest and accurately weigh the crops, checking also for other
differences (uniformity, maturity period, etc.).
(e) FCRI staff should supervise the experiments throughout. A senior
FCRI official might serve as the consultant to DGCA for designing
the study as well.
Seed Treatment
Objective: To determine the feasibility and effectiveness of a variety
of seed treatments in controlling insect, fungus and other seed problems.
Methodology: In consultation with the FCRIs, the most promising seed
treatment techniques available would be tried out. Plantings would be both
on farmer's fields, to determine the practical difficulties, if any, and as
controlled experiments (along the lines of the "Benefits from Improved Seed"
study) on PSFs.



-79-                            ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Statements of Expenditure
1.        Statements of expenditure would be used for (a) operating expendi-
tures of seeds training given at IPB, the Agency for Agricultural Education,
Training and Extension, or other local training centers ($0.8 million,
including all contingencies), and (b) studies, excluding consultancy costs
($0.7 million). The disbursements would be based on training and studies
already undertaken, as certified in disbursement requests prepared by DGFCA.
2.        For training, disbursement requests would specify the location,
content and duration of each course, and the names and positions of all
trainees. For studies, the requests would spell out the tasks undertaken.
The Project Coordination Unit in DGFCA would monitor these activities, pre-
pare the disbursement requests, and keep accounts in a way that permitted the
Bank to check that the reported amounts had actually been disbursed. With
the assistance of the consultant on finance, the unit should be able to
carry out its responsibilities in this regard. All financial records in
support of these statements of expenditure would be retained until one year
after the closing date, and would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.



- 80 -                        ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Contract Growers' Farm Budgets
1.        Contract growers would agree to grow seed, instead of consumption
grain, on a specified area, thus leaving their overall cropping pattern and
other farm activities unaffected. The effects of the project are therefore
shown, in Tables 2 through 7, by partial budgets for each crop for one season
for one hectare. The basis of comparison is one hectare of the same crop
grown for sale as consumption grain. The area devoted to seed growing would
actually average about one half hectare for lowland rice, and one hectare for
the other crops. A large proportion of contract growers would grow two crops
per year. To facilitate supervision of the seed growers, farms would be
grouped to form contiguous blocks of approximately 10 ha or more.
Labor
2.        It has been assumed that, on average, a farm family could provide
three family workers per day for 25 days per month, and that hired labor
would be required only for half the person-days needed for planting and for
harvesting, which must each be completed within a few days. For groundnuts
and mungbeans, which take 50 person-days to harvest, two-thirds of the labor
for harvesting would be hired. A wage rate of Rp 600/day, which is an approx-
imate weighted average for Java and the Other Islands, has been used. A team
of bullocks with driver would be hired for land preparation, for about
Rp 1,200/day. The value of all labor, including family members, is shown in
the farm budgets, but only the cost of hired labour is included in the total
cash outflow and in net income.
Inputs and Yields
3.        The financial prices of farm inputs are shown in Table 1.  The pre-
sent subsidized prices for fertilizer and agro-chemicals, which are expected
to be maintained indefinitely by the GOI, have been used. The prices for
stock seed are those that would be implemented under the project. Most con-
tract growers would be farmers who already use an improved input package.
The only difference assumed in the farm budgets is that contract growers
would plant stock seed whereas non-seed growers would use certified extension
seed for rice and selected grain for other crops. The stock seed, which
would be provided on credit to contract growers, would give an estimated
yield increment, compared with extension seed, of 4% for rice and 8% for
other crops. In addition, the seed rate would be lower for all crops except
lowland rice, for which there is no significant saving by using stock seed.



- 81 -                          ANNEX 9
Page 2
Debt Service
4.       Debt service has been calculated at 1% per month for six months on
the standard BIMAS credit package for each crop.
Land Tax
5.       Collection of the land tax, (IPEDA) is irregular and less than 50%
of the farmers pay any land tax in a given year. Although the tax assess-
ments are supposed to represent 7% of the value of wetland rice production
and 5% of the value of dryland crop production, these rates are not fully
applied. On the basis of local evidence, 3.5% of the value of wetland rice
production and 2.5% of the value of dryland crop production have been used.
Income
6.       The financial prices assumed for each crop are shown in Table 1.
In each case, grain grown for seed would receive a 10% premium above the
price for consumption grain. The price for consumption rice is the stan-
dard BULOG buying price (for 14% moisture content and 3% inert material).
Prices for other crops are average current market prices. As a result of
using stock seed and of obtaining a 10% premium, contract seed growers would
obtain the following increments in income each season.
Size of farm           Income ('000 Rp) ------         %
(ha)       Without project   With project    increase
Wetland rice        0.5              109                129             18
Dryland rice          1              129                156             21
Maize                 1              107                139             30
Soyabean              1              163                205             26
Groundnut             1              335                427             27
Mung bean             1              203                256             26



ANNEX 9
- 82 -                                Table 1
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Farmgate Prices for Inputs and Outputs
1. Farmgate Financial Prices of Farm Inputs
Wetland & dryland rice extension seed                              210 Rp/kg
Wetland & dryland rice stock seed                                  275 Rp/kg
Maize commercial seed                                             150 Rp/kg
Maize "stock seed"                                                250 Rp/kg
Soybean commercial seed                                           350 Rp/kg
Soybean "stock seed"                                              500 Rp/kg
Groundnut commercial seed                                         475 Rp/kg
Groundnut "stock seed"                                            650 Rp/kg
Mungbean commercial seed                                          350 Rp/kg
Mungbean "stock seed"                                             500 Rp/kg
Urea                                                               70 Rp/kg
TSP                                                                70 Rp/kg
Pesticide                                                      1,250 Rp/liter
Rodenticide (zinc phosphide)                                   2,300 Rp/kg
Animal teams (pair of animals and driver)                       1,200 Rp/day
Hired labor                                                       600 Rp/day
2. Farmgate Prices Received for Crops
Wetland & dryland rice for consumption                            105 Rp/kg
Wetland & dryland rice for seed                                   115 Rp/kg
Maize for consumption                                              90 Rp/kg
Maize for seed                                                    100 Rp/kg
Soybean for consumption                                          250 Rp/kg
Soybean for seed                                                 275 Rp/kg
Groundnut for consumption                                         350 Rp/kg
Groundnut for seed                                                385 Rp/kg
Mungbean for consumption                                          300 Rp/kg
Mungbean for seed                                                 330 Rp/kg



ANNEX 9
83 -                                Table 2
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Contract Grower: 1 ha Wetland Rice
Without project         With project
Units       Rupiah    Units       Rupiah
Inputs
Seed (kg)                                  25        5,250        25        6,875
Urea (kg)                                 200       14,000       200       14,000
TSP (kg)                                  100        7,000       100        7,000
Pesticide (1)                               2        2,500         2        2,500
Rodenticide (kg)                          0.5        1,650       0.5        1,650
Total Inputs                                      30,400                32,025
Labor (person-days)
Land prep'n - (animal-days)                15       18,000        15       18,000
Planting                                   35       21,000        35       21,000
Weeding                                    40       24,000        40       24,000
Fertilizing & spraying                     14        8,400        14        8,400
Roguing                                     -            -        18       10,800
Harvesting                                 40       24,000        40       24,000
Drying & threshing                         15        9,000         -            -
Total labor, including animal           159    [104,4001       162    [106,2001
of which hired labor, incl. animal    52          40,200        52      40,200
Other Costs
Land tax                                            10,804                 12,075
Debt service                                         3,060                  3,157
Total Cash Outflow                               84,464                87,457
(incl. hired labor only)
Yield (kg dry paddy)               2,880                  3,000
Price per kg                                       105                    115
Gross Income                                   302,400                345,000
Net Income                                     217,936                257,543



ANNEX 9
- 84 -                                Table 3
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Contract Grower: 1 ha Dryland Rice
Without project        With project
Units      Rupiah    Units        Rupiah
Inputs
Seed (kg)                                  50      10,500        40       11,000
Urea (kg)                                 200       14,000      200       14,000
TSP (kg)                                  100       7,000       100        7,000
Pesticide (1)                               2        2,500        2        2,500
Rodenticide (kg)                           .5        1,650        .5       1,650
Total Inputs                                     35,650                 36,150
Labor (person-days)
Land prep'n - (animal-days)                15      18,000        15       18,000
Planting                                   10       6,000        10        6,000
Weeding                                    40      24,000        40       24,000
Fertilizing & spraying                      5       3,000         5        3,000
Roguing                                     -            -       18       10,800
Harvesting                                 30       18,000       30       18,000
Drying & threshing                         15       9,000         -            -
Total labor, including animal           115     [78,000]      118      [79,8001
of which hired labor, incl. animal    35         30,000        52       30,000
Other Costs
Land tax                                            4,987                  5,750
Debt service                                        2,362                  2,422
Total Cash Outflow                              73,000                 74,322
(incl. hired labor only)
Yield (kg dry paddy)               1,920                  2,000
Price per kg                                      105                    115
Gross Income                                   201,600                230,000
Net Income                                     128,600                155,678



ANNEX 9
- 85-                                 Table 4
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Contract Grower: 1 ha Maize
Without project        With project
Units      Rupiah    Units        Rupiah
Inputs
Seed (kg)                                 35        5,250        25       6,250
Urea (kg)                                200       14,000       200      14,000
TSP (kg)                                 100        7,000       100       7,000
Pesticide (1)                              1        1,250         1       1,250
Total Inputs                                     27,250                28,500
Labor (person-days)
Land prep'n - (animal-days)               14       16,800        14      16,800
Planting                                  20       12,000        20      12,000
Weeding                                   15        9,000        15       9,000
Fertilizing & spraying                     5        3,000         5       3,000
Roguing                                    -            -        10       6,000
Harvesting                                10        6,000        10       6,000
Husking                                   10        6,000        10       6,000
Drying & shelling                         15        9,000         -           -
Total labor, including animal           89      [61,8001      84      [58,8001
of which hired labor, incl. animal    29         25,800       29       25,800
Other Costs
Land tax                                            4,050                 5,000
Debt service                                        1,942                 2,002
Total Cash Outflow
(incl. hired labor only)                       59,042                 61,302
Yield (kg dry unshelled)           1,840                 2,000
Price per kg                                       90                   100
Gross Income                                   165,600               200,000
Net Income                                     106,558               138,698



- 86                                  ANNEX 9
Table 5
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Contract Grower: 1 ha Soybean
Without project         With project
Units       Rupiah    Units        Rupiah
Inputs
Seed (kg)                                  45       15,750        35       17,500
Urea (kg)                                  50        3,500        50        3,500
TSP (kg)                                  100        7,000       100        7,000
Pesticide (1)                               1        1,250         1        1,250
Total Inputs                                      27,500                 29,250
Labor (person-days)
Land prep'n - (animal-days)                14       16,800        14       16,800
Planting                                   20       12,000        20       12,000
Weeding                                    35       21,000        35       21,000
Fertilizing & spraying                      5        3,000         5        3,000
Roguing                                     -            -        10        6,000
Harvesting                                 30       18,000        30       18,000
Drying & threshing                         15        9,000         -            -
Stripping                                                - -       5        3,000
Total labor, including animal           119      [79,800]      119      [79,800]
of which hired labor, incl. animal    39          31,800        39      31,800
Other Costs
Land tax                                             5,625                  6,875
Debt service                                         2,290                  2,395
Total Cash Outflow                               67,215                70,320
(incl. hired labor only)
Yield (kg, dry)                       920                  1,000
Price per kg                                       250                    275
Gross Income                                   230,000                275,000
Net Income                                      162,785               204,680



ANNEX 9
- 87 -                           Table 6
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Contract Grower: 1 ha Groundnut
Without project         With project
Units       Rupiah    Units       Rupiah
Inputs
Seed (kg)                                 160       76,000       120       78,000
Urea (kg)                                  50        3,500        50        3,500
TSP (kg)                                  100        7,000       100        7,000
Pesticide (1)                               1        1,250         1        1,250
Total Inputs                                      87,750                89,750
Labor (person-days)
Land prep'n - (animal-days)                14       16,800        14       16,800
Planting                                   20       12,000        20       12,000
Weeding                                    35       21,000        35       21,000
Fertilizing & spraying                      5        3,000         5        3,000
Roguing                                     -            -        10        6,000
Harvesting                                 50       30,000        50       30,000
Drying & stripping                         15        9,000         -            -
Stripping                                                - -       5        3,000
Total labor, including animal           139      [91,800]      134      [91,8001
of which hired labor, incl. animal    49          42,800        49      42,800
Other Costs
Land tax                                            11,812                 14,437
Debt service                                         3,388                  3,508
Total Cash Outflow                             145,750                150,495
(incl. hired labor only)
Yield (kg, dry in shell)            1,380                  1,500
Price per kg                                       350                    385
Gross Income                                   483,000                577,500
Net Income                                     335,250                427,005



ANNEX 9
- 88 -                                 Table 7
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Contract Grower: 1 ha Mungbean
Without project        With project
Units       Rupiah    Units       Rupiah
Inputs
Seed (kg)                                  30       10,500        20       10,000
Urea (kg)                                  50        3,500        50        3,500
TSP (kg)                                  100        7,000       100        7,000
Pesticide (1)                               1        1,250         1        1,250
Total Inputs                                      22,250                 21,750
Labor (person-days)
Land prep'n - (animal-days)                14       16,800        14       16,800
Planting                                   20       12,000        20       12,000
Weeding                                    35       21,000        35       21,000
Fertilizing & spraying                      5        3,000         5        3,000
Roguing                                                  -        10        6,000
Harvesting                                 50       30,000        50       30,000
Drying                                     15        9,000         -            -
Total labor, including animal           139      [91,8001      134      [88,800]
of which hired labor, incl. animal    49          42,800        49      42,800
Other Costs
Land tax                                             6,750                  8,250
Debt service                                         1,348                  1,348
Total Cash Outflow                               73,148                74,148
(incl. hired labor only)
Yield (kg, dry)                       920                  1,000
Price per kg                                       300                    330
Gross Income                                    276,000               330,000
Net Income                                      202,852               255,852



-89 -                               ANNEX 10
-89-                       ~~~~~~~Tablel1
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Economic Prices for Crops
(Constant 1980 dollars) /a
1980                     1990
Rp/kg lb   US$/ton        Rp/kg   US$/ton
Rice
Export price, Thai, 5% broken,
f.o.b. Bangkok                           290          464         344        551
Indonesian import price /c                 261          418         310        496
Plus freight and insurance                  13           20           13        20
Price at Indonesian Port                   274          438         323        516
Plus port handling                           4            6           4           6
Plus transport to wholesaler                 6            10           6         10
Price at Wholesaler                        284          454         333        532
Less transort, mill to wholesaler            5            8            5          8
Ex-Mill Price                              279          446         328        524
Paddy equivalent /d                        176          284         206        330
Less milling costs (less value of
byproducts)                                4            6           4          6
Less transport, farm to mill                 8            13           8         13
Less dealer's margin                         8            13           9         15
Farm-Gate Price                            156          252         185        296
Maize
Export price, f.o.b. Gulf ports            107          172          122       196
Plus ocean freight and insurance            19           30          19         30
Price at Indonesian Port                   126          202         141        226
Plus port handling                           4             6           4          6
Plus transport to wholesaler                 6            10           6        10
Price at Wholesaler                        136          218         151        242
Less transport, farm to
wholesalers                                8           13           8         13
Less dealer's margin                         8            13           9        13
Farm-Gate Price                            120          192         134        216
Soybeans
Export price, c.i.f. Rotterdam             187          300         262        420
Plus ocean freight and insurance            16           25          16         25
Price at Indonesian Port                   203          325         278        445
Plus port handling                           4             6          4          6
Plus transport to wholesaler                 6            10           6        10
Price at Wholesaler                        213          341         288        461
Less transport, farm to
wholesalers                                8           13           8         13
Less dealer-s margin                        10           16          12         20
Farm-Gate Price                            195          312         268        428
Groundnuts
Export price, c.i.f. Europe,
shelled                                  333          533         407        652
Less ocean freight and insurance            16           25          16         25
Price at Indonesian Port                   317          508         391        627
Less port handling                           4             6          4           6
Less transport to wholesaler                 6            10           6        10
Price at Wholesaler                        307          492         381        611
Convert to unshelled /e                    230          369         284        458
Less transport, farm to
wholesalers                                8           13           8         13
Less dealer-s margin                        15           24           18        30
Farm-Gate Price                            207          332         258        415
/a  Import parity price for rice, maize and soybeans; export parity price for
groundnuts.
/b  US$1.00 = Rp 625
/c  World price of 25% broken quality rice imported by Indonesia = 90% world
price for 5% broken.
/d  63% milling ratio.
/e  75% of shelled value.



_ 90 -                                                       ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Economic Costs
(Rp million)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Years            Years       Years
7-10      11-14       15-22
Investment Costs /a                                                                                     -          -           -
Breeder seed storage                     87         -         -         -         -         -         -          -           -
PSFs /b                                 870       255         -         -         -         -         -          -
Seed processing centers /c           2,155    1,868    2,280    1,774             -         -         -     1,100            -
Vehicles /d                            472       492       382       280          -      350        350        350         350
Laboratory equipment                     68        38        10        10         -         -         -          -           -
Training                               343        186      106        109        77         -         -          -
Technical assistance                   400       450       250        150         -         -         -          -
Studies /e                             222        178        69       44          -         -         -          -           -
Physical contingencies (10%)           462       347       310       237          7       25         25        145          25
PSF equipment                          560        560         -         -         -         -         -          -           -
Total Investment Costs         5,639    4,374    3,407    2,604           84       375       375      1,595         375
Incremental Operating Costs
NSC, P.T. Pertani and Cooperatives
Gross incremental
operating costs                                        1,022    2,554    4,597    6,641    7,662          8,200       8,200
Less: "Saved" operating
costs /f                                                 769    1,914    3,083    4,455    5,140          5,500       5,500
Net incremental operating
costs                                                    253       640    1,514    2,186    2,522         2,700       2,700
SCCS                                     17       35        58        77        90        90        90         90           90
ECRI                                     10       11        15         18       18        18        18          18          18
DPDs                                     18       25        32        40        40        40        40         40           40
Total Operating Costs             45        71       358       775    1,662    2,334    2,670         2,848       2,848
Total Costs                    5,684    4,445    3,765    3,379    1,746    2,709    3,045            4,445       3,223
/a From Annex 1.
/b For 12 provinces.
/c Excludes upgrading of existing processing centers; in years 11-14, equipment replaced.
/d Vehicles replaced every 5 years; average annual replacement figure used.
Te Excludes pilot activities.
/f Economic cost of seed production displaced by project seed.



ANNEX 10
91 -                                                Table 3
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Economic Benefits (Value of Incremental Production)
Year 3/a  Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9  Year 10-22
Wetland Rice
Area planted (ha '000)                     40        100        185        265        310         33         33         33
Incremental Production (t) /b          4,800    13,000    25,000    38,000    47,000    52,000    53,000    53,500
Value of incremental
production (million Rp) /c             815      2,210      4,250      6,460      8,000      8,840      9,000      9,100
Dryland Rice
Area planted (ha '000)                     15         35         65         95        110        120        120        120
Incremental Production (t) /b            900      2,300      4,450      6,800      8,300      9,400      9,600      9,700
Value of incremental
production (million Rp) /c             150        390        750      1,155      1,410      1,600      1,630      1,650
Maize
Area planted (ha '000)                     20         50         90        130        150        160        160        160
Incremental Production (t) /b          2,200      6,000    11,500    19,400    21,200    23,500    24,000    24,300
Value of incremental
production (million Rp) /c             280        760      1,460      2,460      2,690      2,980      3,050      3,090
Soybeans
Area planted (ha '000)                     10         25         50         70         85         90         90         90
Incremental Production (t)               800      2,000      4,000      5,600      6,800      7,200      7,200      7,200
Value of incremental
production (million Rp) /c             190        460        930      1,300      1,580      1,670      1,670      1,670
Groundnuts
Area planted (ha '000)                      5         15         30         40         50         53         53         53
Incremental Production (t)               500      1,500      3,000      4,000      5,000      5,300      5,300      5,300
Value of incremental
production (million Rp) /c             120        350        700        930      1,160      1,230      1,230      1,230
Mungbeans
Area planted (ha '000)                      3          7         12         18         20         22         22         22
Incremental Production (t)               120        280        480        920        800        880        880         880
Value of incremental
production (million Rp) /c              35         90        160        230        260        270        270         270
Total benefits:  Rice              965      2,600      5,000      7,615      9,410    10,440    10,630    10,750
Total benefits:  Palawija          625      1,660      3,250      4,920      5,690      6,150      6,220      6,260
Total benefits                   1,590      4,260      8,250    12,535    15,100    16,590    16,850    17,010
/a  Benefits actually scheduled to start 18 months after main investments; have used 24 months to allow for delays.
/b  For rice and maize includes incremental production from two generations of seed saved from project seed.
Yield increment falls to 20% in 1st generation, 15% in 2nd (para. 8.01). Baseline yields used are 3.0 tons/ha
for wetland rice, 1.5 tons/ha for dryland rice, 1.4 tons/ha for maize, 1.0 ton/ha for soybeans, 1.25 tons/ha
for groundnuts, and 0.5 tons/ha for mungbeans. Yield increases assumed are 4% for rice and 8% for palawija.
/c Valued at average of 1980 and 1990 economic farm-gate prices in 1980 constant rupiah (see Annex 10 Table 1).



-92-                            ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDONESIA
SEEDS II PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Agricultural Sector
Al. World Bank: Commodity Price Forecasts - January 1980.
A2. World Bank: Indonesia, Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops -
March 1979.
B. Staff Appraisal Reports for Related Indonesia Projects
Bl. The Agricultural Research and Extension Project, Report No. 646a-
IND. April 1975.
B2   The National Food Crops Extension Project, Report No. 1105a -
IND. May 1976.
B3. The Transmigration II Project, Report No. 2349b-IND. May 1979.
B4. The National Agricultural Extension II Project, Report No. 2711a-
IND. February 1980.
B5. The National Agricultural Research Project, Report No. 2805-IND.
April 1980.
C. Reports and Working Papers Relating Directly to this Project
Cl. Project Performance Audit Report, Indonesia Seeds Project. Report
No. 2800. December 1979.
C2. FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Preparation Mission Report:
Indonesia, Seeds II Project, March 1979.
C3. Consultants (Delouche/Jones) Preappraisal Mission Reports on
Seeds II Project. September 1979.
C4. Subdirectorate of Seed Development (Directorate of Crop Protection,
DGFCA): Report on Pelita II. 1979.



- 93 -                           ANNEX 11
page 2
C5. National Seeds Corporation Report on Visits to Provinces in Java and
Other Islands Concerned with Seeds II Project. January 1980.
C6. Consultant's (GITEC) Report: Technical Aspects of Seed Processing and
Storage, Seeds II Project. May 1980.
C7. Supporting Working Papers for Project Costs.



- 94 -
INDONESIA -SEEDS 11 PROJECT
PRIMARY GOI AGENCIES WITH PROJECT RESPONSIBILITIES
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)                                             Provincial Governments
Minister                                                               Governor
Agency for Agricultural Research                 Directorate General of Food
and Development lAARD)                        Crops Agriculture (DGFCA)
Head                                      Director General
Central Food Crops                          Directorate of Production                        Provincial g ricutural 
Research Institute                         DrcoaefPouto _ied11rjctService (DPD)_
Director                                       Director                                        Inspector
Food Crops Research              Seed Control and               Sub-directorate of                 Production
Institute (FCRI)         Certification Service (SCCS)       Seed Production (SSP)                 Section
Director                     Sub-director                     Sub-director                   Section Head
Provincial Seed   a
Farm lPSF)_
World Bank -21989



IBRD] 5173 R
' -a/d1 AcoO                    1000                                1060                                1100                                1150f                                    AIIANO   CO _      W      Sote h   shsFw ,. f t,; <5sH AUGUST 1951
|                  +      a                                             0 <S UTH      CHINA            S A E AL               S A
0   J               0>                                                                                                                                             Nd.. -RE  ,/'-  o  oS,KvN7M.t
/< Padant \ >\ 9 /< i i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1200                                                                                                            12't,/50I I\<t/
MALAYSIA ~       ~            ~           ~            MLASI 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I0                                                                                                                 A/o KALI N/ANnskinr  /'t CNA4 AIS>1V(<-.8T )5>
L                  <-'-<                                                                                                 E                      1A iw <v    >                                        sL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'--1
g PRCJETLOCAION    O Jrf 
i * EXISTING SEED   PROCESStNG  CENTFRS NSC . t )ia V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ! -I
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ANSI KALIA/ANr  .                  o~~~~~~~~ o,~ ~~12 S LAW/i
MALUIKU
|oRSpiwo                CE N                TERS  K  IMA TN 7           -. \
SEEDS PI PROJECT                                                 4 0eR AA , 0005       J.AV A                 S  E-
PROJECT LOCATION                                              .KARU
*  EXISTING SEED PROCESSING, CENTERS - NECK
.     PROPOSED SEED PROCESNG CENTEAS - NSC(YEAR ONE)0
PROP'OSED SEED PIROCESSING CENTERS - PT. PERTANI(YEAR ONE  mI AA. 
a    F00D CROP RESEARCHI INSTITUTEICRI0OS)                                                                                                                                      N      o
PfROVINCIAL SEED FARMSBPSF'Sl YAR ONE
PROADST SEED PROCESSING PROVINCES O$AAT    I                                                                                                                   
RAILWAYS
-PROVINCIAL SOUNOARIES
--  INTERNATIONAL 8OUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                 4MA             R
-1P0                                                                        /  /N     I A  NV       0  C  F  A   N-                                   FST N1 T1GGAA  /                  AT NI/A A'AGNAiA
ML/AEIES                  2bo        36         Mm, op. 60P04I 16WO ok01    -                                                                                                                        TMI
MILES                                         0i0,. hroad.,, o qto topost tv,= dv not v,0,00/I, Ottsod The d oj,P" o WWd . nd tOo
*t0 f. l..e .  OP - h 000 d0                                                                                     1 ,nde
RIO0                        1000~~~~~lo                          I15 i15                                                                    1200                                  1260



